ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u1	Borist's letter has been sent by the vice president of the United States Assembly on the left of the movement for Ingi In Jónsson's 10th. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So it's requested that this afternoon the Trustled Þorsteinn Einarsson be seated at the General Assembly, 4th reserveist on the left movement's list of green bids in the district. In the district, 1st, 2nd, and 3th, a deputy of the Watch Tower Society has proclaimed ahead of time. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued a bill for Þorsteinn V. Einarsson. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u2	Madam President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The President has arranged for a board of administrations and monitoring to review the Þorsteinn V. Einarsson received from the national government. It was consistent with the Commission's conclusion not to make comments to the theme letter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u3	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends the approval of the approved convention and considered it approved without a vote if no protests are moved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u4	We've got a letter from the 10th. Smoke. n., Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and Nichole Leigh Mosty, 10. Smoke. So, that they won't be able to do Congress in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly 4th, the list of the left movement is a green bid in the district, the Þorsteinn V. Einarsson, and the 1st Lips Artist in the District, Eva Einarsdóttir. Their letters have already been investigated and agreed, but they have not previously taken their place in the General Assembly and should therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u5	Þorsteinn commitment to the Constitution has been signed by Þórf V. Einarsson and Eva Einarsdóttir and are welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u6	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the administration and monitoring committee on the proposals of the Minister of Justice for the order of the judge to the National Court. At the outset of this committee's opinion, we are reminded of the case that, Unnur May Konráðsdóttir, the last of the order of 15 judges to the National Court, as per temporary IV laws concerning the courts, No. 50/2016. It stipulates that when a minister proposes an order in the office of a judge at the National Court for the first time, he should submit his motion to every order for the Council to be accepted. He will send the president of Iceland to the office, as mentioned in Article 21. The law. If the General didn't agree to the Minister's proposal for a specific order, the Minister shall propose a new proposal for the Council to be agreed with. The proposal suggests that the Minister of Justice intends to propose to the President of Iceland in accordance with Article 1. Twenty-one. Act on courts and the official approval of Generalis that the following individuals will be appointed judges at the National Court: The Chief Aðalsteinn of E. Jónasson, Arnfríður Einarsdóttir, Ásmundur Helgason, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, Hervör Lilja Arnardóttir, Ignadur Einarsdóttir, Jóhannes Sigurðsson, Jón Finnbjörnsson, Kristjörbjöl Stephensen's Oddný, Ragnheiður Bragadóttir, Harðardóttir Harurdur, Sigurður Tómas Magnússon, Vilhjálmsson, Þorgeir Ingi Njálsson. According to this, the Council's work is to discuss the proposal of the Minister of Justice in accordance with the provisional regulations of the judicial hearings, but it also has to be considered in Article 45. Congress requiring the handling of matters presented to the council and need to be taken into consideration, but it is not a matter of personal Congress. It shows that when such a discussion is made, the president should report it at a meeting. The matter is referred to and expressed by the panel members involved. The matter will then be followed by one discussion at the council, in accordance with the terms of later discussions of the synonym. That is where we are now. In other words, to clarify the project, the administrative and monitoring committee had the responsibility to discuss the proposals of a minister and to express appreciation for them. It is then the job of the Parliament to take a stand on the suggestions, either by agreeing or refusing them, but unlike what happens in the treatment of normal Parliaments, the council has not been able to make any changes or such. They simply have to agree or refuse. If the Synod confirms the proposal of a specific judge, a minister must make a new suggestion. If you assume that a new process will begin on that basis. As for this, I'd like to say otherwise that this is the first time that this kind of law is tested. This is the first time the council comes to the order of a judge, so there are things unusual and without condemnation in our discussion here and in recent days. It is also true that this is the first time 15 judges are being appointed to a new level of justice, a new judgment, an interjugation. Whatever the case, this is, of course, a fairly historic arrangement for handling matters. I'd like to assume that on behalf of the President of the Generals, a memo was prepared a few weeks ago, explaining a hearing on the scene of the council, and it presented council classes and discussed in that context. No comments have been made to the instructions found there. As a result, a administrative and monitoring committee for its part has gone to the extent that it was exhaustive, but, of course, its members are independent of basic management. That is why, to say, more meetings and visitors were found, than was expected in the President's original memo. This, on the other hand, was a solidarity on the committee, although there was no agreement on the outcome. The above article will discuss the number of visitors. Of course, there was a Minister of Justice and Minister of Justice, chairman of the Court of Justice, Björg Thorarensen, Professor of Justice, Trausti Fannar Valsson, appointed in the administrative rights, Þorsteinsdóttir Ingibjörg, vice president of Iceland's Court of Justice, and Reimar Pétursson, chairman of Iceland's Legal Association, Tryggvi Gunnarsson, agent of the Generals, and Hector of the Hafsteinn, Dan Kristjánsson from the office of the Allied Office. There are discussions with the Committee that discussed many factors. As noted in the committee's opinion, a number of opinions were discussed, and there is no need to trace them in detail. It is, in fact, there. As a result, this is an unprecedented case in that it is the first time for the council and is being appointed as a new court. The commission work was also, as mentioned in a committee study, in various ways discussing the welfare of a minister under the law and to review that the general laws of judges' choice are based on legal laws from 2010, with subsequent changes that assume that there is a judicial committee that covers the qualifications of candidates for judicial action. By changing winter, it was emphasized that the judicial decision was also applicable to the land's rights, although it had been placed in the environment where there were only two judgment points. It is discussed that the general law of the law includes that a minister is prohibited from appointing a judge who is not best qualified by a judicial committee unless the approval of the Council, in fact, in the way that we are doing today, although this is more of a provision for temporary IV in a judicial court order that deals specifically with the first order of the National Court. It goes beyond the general provision, not only if a minister departs from the decision of the judicial committee that the matter must come to the council but also in the provisional decree for special national rights that the council would under all circumstances come upon the order and have to confirm it, even if the situation had been established that a minister had failed to compromise from the decision of the judicial committee. This is of importance in the management and monitoring committees to underline that the law directly assumes that a minister may depart in some cases from the decision of the jury. Thus, in a public discussion, there have been times when a minister is in some way temporarily bound by the decision of the judicial committee. As we can see from the Commission opinion that there may be differences in viewpoints on these topics, whether the right to both the law and really to the minister, or whether a minister is bound by the results of this committee. However, the legal requirements presented here are clear regarding the ability of a minister to take certain grounds from the decision of the judicial committee and in such cases need to seek the approval of the council. Despite the legal nature of these laws for a few years, this is the first time the council is involved, although, as I mentioned earlier, it is on the basis of a provisional principle for the establishment of the land rather than the general provision, which is still a reason to look to. With regard to the National Court as such, there's some publicity and you don't have to trace it here. For one thing, it is proper to make a decision that the National Court is established as an appeal court. The role of the National Court is to reconsider the decision of a local court and is expected in the laws that apply to the State's rights to it that it is generally final in a case, although under certain circumstances the case may continue to be carried on to the Supreme Court. This is an appeal court, which is the key factor in reviewing the conclusion of a lower court. It matters in this coverage, as I will come in later. The committee's opinion shows that people have wondered about the viewpoint of the committee regarding the order of judges. So I'll witness directly to the Commission's opinion there says, by permission of the president: ▪ The more part specifically shows that it is a fundamental difference in the choices we make when a court of law is added to judges or courts that are being built from the foundation. The greater part points out that a minister has his logical change - from a committee of committees - ◯ with reference to the need to consider the effectiveness of the new court's new court - from the beginning - ◯ and the greater part accepts that view. The committee reviews a consideration of equality or gender with the order of the judges. It is appropriate to review it in this hall that when the law of February law was changed, it was primarily a subject in this room and in the work of a universal and educational committee that discussed the case at the time of the need for sexual protection. Perhaps they were not at all agreeing on that, at least not at the beginning, how best to approach it in a law text, but in the opinion of the committee of both the majority and the lesser parts of the universal and educational committees of that time, a very strong will was to be taken into account. As a review, it may be noted that there was a very clear suggestion from a minister not based on gender or equality that would not be reached in the eyes of members of Congress. I don't think there was any doubt about what was being heard in that discussion, and I studied the proposed committees. I am making the proposal for a minister. So I testify in the Commission's opinion on the following subject, by permission of the president: The Court specifically discussed the proposals of a minister, but to the Committee it came to the opinion that if a minister did not follow a jury assessment of the qualifications of candidates, a minister would be obliged to support his evaluation according to the regulations of the administrative body. General rules on what to lay the basis of a command in public employment have not been established. It has been considered to depend on the opinion of a person who gives the work what viewpoint should be of particular importance. However, the unmistakably acceptable principle of administrative rights applies to making such a decision that it must be based on objective views and to choose the candidate to be the most qualified, so that the government's free opinion is certainly restricted by these principles. I continue to quote the committee's opinion: The committee stated that a judicial committee considers 33 individuals to meet the requirements of the law and that they qualify for judicial action, as assessed by the judicial committee. It was noted that the selection of the judges in the Country Court was similar to the needs of the National Rights. When it has been conducted, which is not based on the candidates itself, but on the job in question, the next non-employed job is to find out how individual candidates will respond to that need. Those who do the best are the best. It is recognized that this process is not always that simple. In spite of the above, it may be difficult to settle between the individual candidates, and it may be necessary to choose between them in another way as to how they are best for the work being done for the purpose of distribution. The committee stated that a minister felt that the committee had adequately carried out its duties and underdeveloped activities and no formalities had been treated by a judicial committee. After a judicial committee gave its resignation to a minister, a minister who had to consider the proposals independently by the council. It was noted, however, that a minister had partially disagreed with the issue of the judicial committee on individual assessments, including Regarding factors, judging is required, i.e. Board of Parliaments, contracts, reviews and general employment skills. A minister suggests that by not attempting to provide two of the above factors as a basis for the overall evaluation, it will only be recommended that the experience of a judge has not received the relevant significance and is assumed in the rules of No. 620/2010 on the job of a judicial committee that deals with candidates' qualifications for judicial office. And I continue: THE committee's meetings were also covered with the role of the Generals, but to the Committee it came to the conclusion that it was primarily to determine whether a minister has handled the right actions and has prepared his decision in accordance with administrative rules. Also, whether an appropriate comparison had been made between candidates in relation to the needs of the National Court and his activities as well as the development of a minister's proposal on objective views. Thus, the role of the Generalis, as stated in the Committee to conduct a minister, i.e. The hosts' section, the case. A major factor is that he has discussed the grounds behind a minister's motion on the appointment of individual judges in the Country Court, including changing from the judicial hearing, and accepts them. So the majority of the administration and monitoring committees make such a suggestion to the Generals' conclusions: The Council of Justice agrees with the proposals that the following individuals will be appointed judges at the National Court, parr. Valuable IV law, No. 50/2016, sr. Law No. 10/2017 The list is followed by the proposal of the Minister of Justice. The Chief Aðalsteinn of E. Jónasson, Arnfríður Einarsdóttir, Ásmundur Helgason, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, Hervör Mjöll Arnardóttir, Ignadur Þorgeir, Jóhannes Sigurðsson, Jón Finnbjörnsson, Kristjörbjöl Stephensen's Harðardóttir, Ragnheur Bragadóttir, Ragnheiður Harurdur, Sigurður Tómas Magnússon, Vilhjálmsson, H. Ingi Njálsson. Under this committee of literature, as well as the above, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, 2nd President of the Committee, Pawel Bartoszek, Willalm Árnason, and Hildur Sverrisdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Ármannsson before the talk. We have made it clear here that the bottom line of this matter is at the top. Minister of Justice will evaluate candidates differently from the jury. This is the point. She was assigned to evaluate the suitability of candidates, but there is another assessment. The committee uses one method and the highest. Ministers to others. V.E.G. The minister then has his case here at the General's table, with extremely limited logic. It has been observed that the experience of judges along with other factors outweighs the opinion of the Supreme Court. Minister rather than a member of the Committee. Perhaps other factors, too, were mentioned here in a speech given earlier. Senator. In this way, the minister's claim is his intervention, and in this view, the basic time line is in this. How important it is that we discern the exact timing of that decision! When did the Supreme Court arrive? Minister of Justice decision to allow the experience of the applicant or other factors to outweigh? When did this come about? Was this at the beginning before the announcement? Was it in the middle of the process ever? Or was it later, perhaps just after the case had ended, a review? Is there any evidence on this? Have these data appeared to the committee? It is fundamental that we understand this before the progress of the case, both for candidates themselves and for the judicial committee involved in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u8	V.E.G. President. It is to answer the highest. The minister of justice did not offer when the work was advertised very clear lines on how it was advertised, and this is not the norm in this regard. It is not customary when a judge's work is advertised as to how or what basis is laid. Justice minister announced earlier in the winter's law. Candidates send in their applications. The review of the application will be carried out by the Court's law, making a decision to a minister who then considers the matter independently and then returns his proposal to the council on May 29. This is the time line, or the time line, if it is. A senator is wondering. So this wasn't the way you feel about it when both public and private jobs are advertised, that the office has been written in the job advertisement, that it is not customary when it is advertised, but that is done in a very general way, with no variation. [[Up front.]] The committee, then independent and to their own conclusions. Once it has done so, it is the task of Minister of Justice to make a suggestion on the basis of her assessment of the evidence available and to make a suggestion accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. To my view, there was a fairly clear answer to these questions. The answer is that this was not foretold at the beginning, and it was evaluated, not at the beginning, but after. I wondered, " If it's not a tradition that this is done at the beginning, is it desirable and better that it is done in this way in completely new skills and new grounds behind a decision? ' Would it not have been better to keep these qualifications clearer at first and perhaps reduce this roller coaster we are going through here today? This is an unbridled procedure that minimizes this vital judgment point. I'm just gonna say it at last, that's what I'm gonna say. The Minister of Justice is causing this damage to the General or Ministry and must personally be responsible for it and the members of Congress who support this procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u10	V.E.G. President. I think these are completely unprovoked words by reason of reason. A senator and a layoff. The fact is, of course, that there would have been no doubt a significant comment had the Minister of Justice been made to the original advertisement, which somehow proposed the first framework of the Law by specifying for some specific details. It was announced to 15 judges'office at the National Court in the same way that a judicial office has always been advertised in Iceland and no one has made any comments. The review board then assumes its work, assesses things on its terms, in fact the Commission is required by Regulation No. 620/2010, which views should be offered. They are listed, not exhaustive, but they list points that must be considered, such as judicial experience, legal experience, government experience, and other factors without preconceiving the rules that some factors there should have some significance. There's nothing in these rules that the Commission operates on. [[Up front.]] No, it's just like that. A senator, that when there are a broad range of candidates in 15 positions, it is not possible to substantiate the view which will be laid out beyond what the rules require that those who are to be considered the most qualified need to have experience in specific areas set out in these rules, such as judicial experience, legal experience, administrative experience, such as academic work, education, and education. These are a number of things listed there, and ministers are all tied up by their general views. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u11	Madam President. I wanted less of it. A member of the government covenant, which says: ▪ Trust must be built on the foundation of society, including the Generals and Justices. Now this is the case when those who came before the committee say that this process, if the matter is being watched, could undermine confidence in the courts. As it's been driven through the council, it appeared two days ago, last day, and drove through - we had to threaten a painter yesterday to get this on the schedule here in daylight. The president of the Generals had to subject himself to failing to reach his goal of finishing a work schedule. The country's prime minister was fulfilled and said: "I support the minister of justice in this matter. This is not meant to increase confidence in the Council. This is not meant to increase confidence in courts. Far from it! This is a tremendous statement of distrust in the national judiciary system. But it seems quite clear that this is to be run through. But then the council is not finished, and the council has authority. A board of directors has the authority to investigate the decisions and procedures of the Minister as the follow-up role of the Generals. It takes only three members of the Committee to bring it forward, to call before a minister, to find open and study this into the basement, and I ask him why. A senator who is going to have to be on the committee because Brumes Níelsson is unsatisfactory in this case - incompetent, pardon me - whether he will not participate in this investigation. [[To the point: Incompetent.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u12	V.E.G. President. Now, I'd like to say first, that I believe that an old word of glory is what it is. A senator is completely unprovoked in this regard. [[Up front.]] With regard to the continuation of the case in the management and monitoring committee, I or any other member of the Committee will participate in the discussion that will be agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u13	I'm just saying I'm sorry, I'm not quite prepared. You've been running between the last two days trying to understand this. We haven't gotten all the data. It's clear what the experts said before the committee. There is no doubt in my mind, considering what the experts said, that this is contrary to a court order against the Árni Mathiesenur as to how logical the minister was. And what? The chairman of the case of the committee, Birgir the Ármannsson of the Year, thus restricted the procedure within the Committee that this was not about the trial - no, i.e. what this was about for us on the Committee would be sufficient to support a minister. Logistically Supporting Ministers, Why Must It Be Qualified? Yes, because appreciation is being appreciated. From what? For the judge we are about to appoint in this country. The rational support of the committee, the judicial committee, to which it needs to be appreciated, is the rules for what it should be. First the law, then the Minister's rules, then the Committee's work rules, and a minister in advance who knew exactly what was going to happen. If she was not satisfied with the way food and impact should be on these items, a professional process of evaluation, she could make changes herself. She could change the rules before going into this process. Not to mention throwing dust into the public's eyes with it. But she decides to wait for the whole thing to come out and say, "Well, no, I'm not so impressed with their assessment. " No, I'm not going to do anything as professionally with it as they are. I'm just gonna give it a shot. And then for the Committee, a minister has been a man of many historys and has lost reasons for doing this, why she appreciates this kind of mercy. It's all a very unprofessional process. This should be investigated and investigated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u14	V.E.G. President. For the sake of these comments. A senator may be two things I would especially like to share. On the one hand, the method that a judicial committee at any given time chooses for their work is not binding except for the judicial committee, i.e. how she feels it is proper to value individual factors. The regulations that bind the hands of the jury are regulations from the minister of No. 620/2010, which deals in general with the views that should be proposed. It describes the need for a complete evaluation, including consideration of certain factors, but their relevance not divided and not a complete list of factors that may be considered. I think it is absolutely clear that a minister has reasoned his proposal on the basis of perfunctory views. Counting judging experience as an important factor in the appointment of a judge can be just a grammatical view, and I don't think there's any other reason for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u15	Madam President. In an article in 2009, Ólafur Jónsson wrote a philosopher, writing: "The wisdom of the eyes of the king of the north is not to be controlled by the power, but by the wisdom of the wise men. I deeply agree with this view because the General Assembly is a seminar where we should listen to each other's arguments. I'd like to begin by saying that I am convinced that the Council has given me some space in this lawsuit here at the council, now I'm talking about the Council, to be that seminar. It may not have been anticipated when these laws were given at the time. There's another debate I won't go into here how exactly that came about at the time. It was Generalis's wish that it be part of this process to appoint judges to the court, but at the same time there are no rules on this or debates how exactly the Council intends to perform this role. However, we here appreciate having signed an oath to the Constitution, to be faithful to us, and to take it very seriously when we are assigned to review such matters as what we will discuss here. We might ask ourselves, " How well did the Council carry out their role in this regard? ' Minister of 29 May, and I will say so, as also indicated in my committee opinion, to the highest degree. A minister is also narrow - cut in terms of time in all this legal process. How we must wonder when the ultimate motion is proposed! A minister enters May 29, at the end of the council, where members of the council are expected to sit here and vote as their duty, whole and half days, as a matter of urgency. The Commission and the Commission to discuss the case we are here, order 15 new judges to a new level, National Court. We're taking care of something we've never done before, and we're going to work out a meeting between the votes in two days at the council. I really don't believe that. Of course, if I agree that this treatment is not exemplary, I do not put the management of the committee under those circumstances or circumstances, how we can put it in these periods of time. But to offer the smaller portion of writing committee opinion while the smaller item had to participate in votes of a number of cases last night, of course, it's not okay. It is not all right after attending a meeting of the committee and the new nights to read the file. This case is not okay. Of course, reflecting on the role of the Generals, it is our duty to ensure that the public can have confidence in the Council as an institution, just as the public can trust in the courts, the executives, certain institutions that the public must be able to trust in being righteous, since it is the basis for our community. So I just take my experience from this process, I think that we all need to see that we're going in here to do the role of the General as some sort of defense, as it was said, and we're going to do it in a tremendous urgency of time. This was also shown in the language of the experts who were facing them. The administrative and monitoring committee, executive managers, judges, lawyers, all agreed that the administrative and monitoring committee would have been dosed excessively short of time for this role. This, on its own, raises questions about the case of the Generals. So I'm going over the committee's opinion of my share in the management and monitoring committee, there's a proposal at the highest level. Minister of Justice about fifteen judges of the new National Court. A minister's proposal is not in accordance with the motion of a judicial committee evaluating 15 applicants of the most qualified character, and there it was considered to be a minister. In his proposal, however, a minister sees access to law No. 10/2017, No. 50/2016, which provides the following information: ◯ At 1st. add three new proverbs to it: Name by name Section 4. a Justice Act, No. 15/1998, the applicant's qualications at the National Court for the first time should be assessed and a minister should be provided with a management of candidates according to 2 mg. the articles and rules that apply to the committees. Unauthorized is the office of judicial committees to appoint a man whom a judicial committee has not considered fit to be the most qualified among candidates, either one or the other. However, this can be taken care of if the General Assembly agrees with a secretary's proposal for permission to appoint to another anonymous candidate who meets the jury's assessment of all conditions of 2 and 3 mg. Twenty-one. fix these.How much more so that they don't need to be put in touch with the others. A minister's proposal suggests that four of the fifteen candidates considered to be the most qualified are not a minister and four other candidates are being replaced. Thus, the change from judicial hearing is much more than one fourth of the judges. As made clear in what I read from the law, the minority agrees with it and emphasizes in their committee opinion that a minister is authorized to deviate from the judgment of a judicial committee as long as a majority of the Generals agree with them. However, there is no exception to the principle of the administrative law discussed in the courts and the opinion of the emissary of the Generalist who has been built on the country for a long time to appoint the most qualified member of the applicant. As to this interpretation, I don't think there's a controversy with the Committee, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister at any given time to be bound by the principles of the administrative body, the Minister chooses to deviate from the judicial proposal. This rule guarantees public interest and meets the Constitution's equal rule. Is it well reviewed by the Commission's opinion of Trausti Fannar Valsson, taken over at the University of Iceland, where there is a little discussion of the opinion that came up before the Commission's confirmation of the Council's proposal for a national law. The Supreme Court's judgment has been discussed in the case of No. 412/2010 of 14 April 2011, where it was precisely possible for the current minister to fulfill his investigational obligation to the state judge's orders in office. It was precisely established whether the appointed minister would have carried out an investigational duty as defined in the administrative court. Of course, that judgment was based on another legal environment, but it was considered to be the experts who came before the committee that the baseline ones found in the investigational government laws were still valid. This is shown in the letter of the Department of Justice, which received the Commission on this matter, which cites this court's requirement for a minister, including study, to disqualify him from a judicial committee's evaluation of the most qualified candidates. It recommends that the judicial committee's investigation take particular note that according to the court's legal status, the case of the minister would be replaced by a trial. As a result, a minister considered material to compromise the jury's opinion of an order in a state judge's office that it was inevitable that his decision would be established in a further investigation after Article 10. administrative legislation that would include Taking into account his own instructions in Regulation No. 693/1999, on the issues for qualified candidates as well as to ensure that special knowledge will be gained to a similar degree as in the activities of the judicial committee. As I told you before, the legal environment has changed, but experts who came before the committee progressed that these baselines are still fully justified, i.e. It would be met under investigation and ensure that it would be carried out with comparable expertise, prior to the judicial committee appointed. This is referred to in the letter of the National Law Association of Iceland, which makes a strong comment on this proposal by the Minister and considers this procedure, as quoted in the legal body, by permission of the president: ▪... least to create a new court of trust and order needed in a democratic society. It is our assessment in the memory that there is an adequate evidence to support the candidate to have at least as qualified as the ones appointed by the judicial committee. The minister had his letter dated May 29th, where specific comments were made on methodology and on the results of a judicial committee, including a judicial committee, were made. that assessments of the ability of judges can never become mechanical, and that the value of judicial action does not result from the evaluation of the Committee. This letter has to do with a general view that, based on their views, a minister provides four new candidates from among the candidates, while four candidates proposed by a judicial committee no longer make part of the proposal. At a meeting of the Commission and the Minister's Commission, it appeared that there was an abnormal argument for each candidate, and on May 30, a letter was presented to the Committee or a memo that presented evidence support for each individual. Until a proper investigation was made by a minister, the letter puts it this way: a judicial committee believes that a judicial committee has adequately informed the situation and that the evaluations of the factors that are fundamental to the conclusion have been fully investigated. But then it says: "The secretary of the court thinks it is more than a jury expects. " In fact, the letter also shows that the conclusion is also in harmony with the law on the equal status of men and women. It also states that there is no new information to the suggestion, and the implications of judicial action are only being changed from the jury's assessment. It should be noted that the earlier comments in the letter 29th of May are for the job of the mechanical evaluations not mentioned but referred to, as mentioned earlier, that this proposal meets the requirements for equal status and equal rights of women and men. So the argument support in the second letter is somewhat different from that of a previous letter. But of course, the General must require that there be all logical support before the Minister decides on his proposal to the Council. I would like to mention this in particular, since it has been discussed that the heads of the political parties at the Council have made a special demand for gender ideas and sensibility. paritaprevir A recent Birgir of a Ármannsson made a fine account of the viewpoints presented here during a discussion of the Law on National Rights. That's right. That's right. That's right. A senator, the views appeared, and the views also appeared at least in the middle of conversation with you. However, as a minister, I would like to stress that the law on equal positions and equal rights of men and women rests on taking into account the fact that such a qualified candidate is being discussed, so taking into consideration the gender criteria, there must also be support for the equally qualified candidate. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the change in the proposal is not all about the gender criteria, primarily, and as shown in the previous letter. Ministers are talking about increasing the value of judicial experience. It was difficult for the members of the committee to analyze the data that were presented in the Committee how the experiences of judges played in with these proposals for individual candidates. It was very hard to tell. This is pointed out in a letter sent by the attorney to the board to the applicant who has been evaluated for no. 7 in the opinion of an economist has been cast from among candidates, while others with less judicial experience have been left in peace, and this despite the gender concept. So this question remains based on the committee's discussion. It must be clear to the general requirement that if a minister decides to disfellowship a judicial committee, he should conduct his own investigation of the applicant's qualifications so that no doubt there is any doubt that the most qualified individuals are appointed in accordance with current principles of law. To be quoted again from the Supreme Court in case of No. 412/2010 which shows that the Minister was responsible for performing his own investigation and following his own protocols and that the courts were then changed, as I mentioned above, still apply the same basic administrative laws in this regard. Protocol 10. Government law emphasizes that a ruling authority is fully responsible for the current case and is putting in place enough information to do so. Among other things, in view of what I said before, which bowed down to the small and short time spent as a board of directors and monitoring committees, the smaller part does not consider that this rule has been honored, including in view of the falling of four applicants from the list instead of the four that are added to the list. It is not clear what comparisons have been made between the most qualified candidates and the four non-employees who are considered fit but added to the minister's proposal. Also, there is no comparison of the four most qualified by a judicial committee as well as others of the same group who still remain on the motion of ministers, e.g. with regard to experience as judge, which has been referred to as a specific argument in the case. According to the Generalist's opinion on No. 5220/2008 and 5230/2008, it is noted that such comparisons need to be made and in the areas to which the decision to exercise ability is fundamental. From the logic of the minister of May 30, no such comparisons can be expected. In the case of a minister, it has been observed that such support cannot be given to those who are not given the job until after the order. This is a controversy. They believe the smaller part is that it would have been a fine management program that candidates had been allowed to reason with the opinion that for the change of the perceptible assessment of issues such as they should generally be allowed under the rule of the administrative court. It may be clear that a minister, and this has been shown in her case, feels that his logical support is equivalent to a satisfactory investigation in accordance with administrative law. The minority does not believe that comparable expertise is behind the Minister's assessment of candidates and the jury's judgement. It should be noted, of course, that the evaluation of a judicial committee is thorough, 117 pages, reviewing the individual qualifications in different assessments and shown in order after each assessment program as the most appropriate for individuals on certain assessments and who are considered to be the least qualified. The estimate of a minister is four pages, based largely on information and in a judicial committee study on the experience of candidates in judicial matters. As mentioned earlier in my case, the Minister of the law certainly narrowed the deadline around the order of the judge. It includes a reminder that both Ministers and Generals would have needed more time to resolve this case, a large case, centered on the order of fifteen new judges of the land rights so that a minister could fully carry out his field service, and a meeting could be arranged later in the summer to complete the case. This is in line with the opinion of the experts who came before the committee who considered it to be a special opinion whether a minister had adequately assessed individual applications based on the perspective that he felt fit to the best of national rights, it would simply take much more time and much more access to data. The administrative and monitoring committee would have been over-exploited for a short period of time at the discretion of the case. Then, at a meeting of the Committee, it was discussed that there are no rules on how the surveillance of the Generalis should be conducted by this secretary's decision. It was also shown in discussions within the Committee that people have very different ideas about this. So the minority insisted that the case be suspended so that a minister could review the comments that have occurred in the short period since the appointment of a minister, as well as that the General Commission and Commission's Commission would have time to do their job. A general assembly could then meet later in June to finish the case. Finally, my committee opinion shows that although new legal laws were taken into account since the Supreme Court's trial of No. 412/2010 failed, it may be concluded that there was no significant change in the requirements for a rich minister to meet the study requirements in accordance with administrative principles. The decision of a minister is a administrative decision, thereby a system of government laws and regulations. The existing legal rights minister's proposals regarding the total structure of a new court that is assigned a significant new role in the judicial system and that establishes a turning point in the legal history. For this reason, it is fundamental and normal for careful action and the order of a judge to be above all doubt. All of this makes it clear that the smaller portion does not feel that the management arrangements are sound enough. With reference to the above, i.e. that it is not shown that a minister has not been able to obtain sufficient expertise in the case on the part of a administrative and surveillance committee, that the council and the Committee were given an excessive short time to consider the matter, that it was not willing, on the part, to delay the case's payment to provide Ministers with the opportunity to correct the limit and ensure careful management, to discuss the fundamental matters of a new court order committed to a key court order in the country's court of justice, that it is necessary to accept an order to the court order to the land and to the court of the land and to proceed with its order to be under way of doubt, the whole matter should be overlooked. Under this opinion, the writer of this magazine, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson and Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson Logi Einarsson with the committee was held as an officer in the hearing, and it agrees with the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u16	V.E.G. President. One point or two that I wanted to make comments or discuss in a talk. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. First of all, I would like to say that the length of time that was in charge of the matter here at the council and is for the release of the case here at the council has been for some time. There has always been the possibility that a minister would never have more than two weeks since a judicial committee is returned in order to make his suggestion to the council. It's under law from 2010. At the same time, it has been a long time before the end of the council was planned. As I found out in my speech earlier, for some time there has been at the table of the council groups and members of the political parties a plan on how court treatments would be conducted in fundamental steps. Since then, the number of committees in the management and monitoring committee, visitors, and the number of occurrences has been increased. Just so there's no new thing people were standing before here on Monday every hour or on the part of the council dealing with this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u17	Madam President. I think I know what. A senator listened carefully to my speech. This made it very clear that a minister is a provision of very short periods of time under the law. That is what I made clear in my speech. A senator doesn't have to correct what I said about it. Right away. However, a senator noted that we have been bound by planned end of Congress as much as he knows about it as I do that the end of Congress is not a holy time. Of course, members of the council must prioritize the issues under consideration over the precise timing of the Council's work programme, even though there was a pact to end the matter. If all members of the committee had agreed that the argument was entirely satisfactory and properly explained why a minister would have chosen to compromise a judicial hearing so that all members of the committee would have been convinced, members of various categories, that the research duties of a minister had been met, then there would no doubt have been a way of ending the case in the short period of time. A senator mentions. But like a dog. A senator is aware that after attending the meeting that I also served on the committee, only questions arose, first after the first letter of a minister from May 29, some of which was answered in the second letter of Minister 30 May, but also questions about conflicting reasoning between the two letters. As a member of the General Assembly, we must prioritize things in an acceptable way rather than plan for the end of the council. So I can't agree with the view that a plan for retirement requires that members of the Parliament have a problem with the treatment. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u18	V.E.G. President. That's right. Work plan is just a plan. What I was pointing out is that no one was to be surprised that this matter would be handled during the last days of the council as there were any other cases to be taken care of. There was always, at least for a few days, perhaps for weeks, even though the exact number of days could not be determined, would come here at the end of the council on the same day and a number of other cases would be made payable. I'm just saying that people knew about it in advance, and they accepted it with open eyes, and actually without any comment in advance that it would be a tight timeline in this relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u19	Not two days, two weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u20	However, I wondered if words can be understood. The senator so that if the jury's proposal had come in unchanged from a minister, the case would have been resolved more readily and more solidly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u21	A respectable president. No, words can't be understood. A senator like that, and kind of strangely. A senator makes that clear. What was clearly stated in my case was that we, of course, require that a minister's logical support be sufficient, no matter what the proposal might have been. As clearly indicated in my case, the smaller part is completely in agreement that a minister has the authority to disfellowship a judicial committee as long as there is adequate logic. That's why I took a thorough note of my speech. Because of what? A senator testifies that it was not necessary to be surprised that we were here at the end of the Senate - no, nothing was surprising. That is why, in the memory of the part, we repeated repeatedly to postpone this case, to regroup later in this month to finish the case so that the situation would not develop. [[Up front.]] That suggestion was, I don't want to say too badly, but it wasn't taken from the majority of the committee. It explains the odd situation that was created here yesterday where a committee's work is being done which, of course, would have been in some sort of situation, so I say, required more overworked and more planning. It is the case that the greater part decided to tailor the smaller portion on this matter, in view of the lack of objective suggestions for the smaller section to postpone the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u22	Madam President. There's one thing I'd like to ask. A member of the council in her case, as well as a member of the committee's list of my section. This is the statement at the end of the committee opinion that it is claimed that a minister has not performed his field service under administrative law. I would like to ask myself, " How do I reason? ' A senator of this claim? In what ways has study obligations not been carried out? What's the point? Now it's time to go to the highest. Ministers have reviewed the evidence of the case, reviewed applications, reviews of the jury, objections to candidates and the work data of the Committee specifically required by it. In what ways is the Ministry's investigation required? How does this claim prove true? It also points to the highest. The minister does not comment on the fact that the judicial committee has not met its protocol. That's not what's fundamental here. To the highest. A minister has failed to fulfill his research duty, so we can understand why. A member of the council thus claims that the judicial committee has not carried out its protocol. I want an explanation, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u23	Madam President. It's a problem with language. A senator calls my attention because it is said in the section of my committee that it is not shown that a minister did his research duties is not a claim that a minister has not carried out his field service, to explain this language for a reason. Senator. However, the smaller portion cannot be convinced that it has been done. That is what this expression means. And why is the lesser part not convinced of that, Madam President? Yes, we have here a 117 page interview report by the jury, which, as I discussed earlier in my speech, candidates are arranged in a row by individual assessments, under every assessment program where candidates are ordered out by judges' experience, by legal experience, by education, by academic work, other jobs, all set up. The minister's logical support was first general, in which a general view of the fact that a judicial experience would be weighed more by a minister's opinion and therefore four individuals would be accepted as a part of a minister's proposal and therefore not specified by the other four. The second rationalization of the minister is on four pages that review the experience of these four candidates, the same data presented in the review of a judicial committee, but what we ask: What compares between the individual candidates so that candidates are considered less qualified in total? In particular, in view of what I mentioned earlier, since we have comments from lawman Jóhannes Karl Sveinsson asking simple questions: Why is the applicant in the 7th judicial hearing not part of a minister's proposal, despite being in the case of judicial experience, because there are others on the bottom of the list who have less experience? These are questions we've asked on the committee and did not consider a minister to have fulfilled his investigation in these matters. [[The president calls.]] However, we do not trust to make any claim because, as I have studied in the past, we did not have much time to review all the evidence in the treatment of the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u24	Madam President. I'm asking for an investigational basis, that's all. Don't argue with the Minister, I'm asking for the investigation. In the minority opinion, there is a claim that a minister has not been shown to perform his field service under administrative laws. I'm asking for an explanation on the issue where the minister has not carried out his research duty. That can't be the case. A member is arguing that a minister over the evidence, reviewing the applications, reviewing the review of the jury's review, reviewing objections to candidates, has called for the Commission's work data? It's not a w-w-w. A senator messing with it? In what ways has the minister failed to fulfill his research responsibilities? Then I'd like to point my tail, too. Because, in view of the memory of the part, it is referred to the Supreme Court in case 412/2010, the Supreme Court specifically applies that in the matter of changing the law of courts from 1998, by permission of the President, ◯... this investigation was under orders in the administration of a district judge in significant aspects of light by the Minister of Justice and Religious Affairs, but it replaced the judicial committee, in such a way that when a minister has not submitted his duty to the council, it is claimed that the jury has not met his duty? Mrs. President, I'd like to have an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u25	Madam President. Hv. A senator comes here and tells me that I'm fully informed that an investigational duty was not being carried out. I haven't said that. Hv. A senator must guard his words here, not do to me or to others who write under the opinion of the minority of words. I mentioned at the outset that I thought the Council should be about being a seminar where we listen to reason and reason. A senator must do so well to quote just the members of the council he has to speak to. It's not acceptable that this kind of language is being done in a case as important as this, so I'm just telling you clearly. Here we received logical support, which will be discussed in detail in the context of the minority section, and if that were so, it would have been discussed in detail. The committee would have had time to do that. Logical support for one and a half pages in general, not for each candidate, is the highest. A minister proposes his proposal in the beginning. Following comments at a meeting of the management and monitoring committee, there is a four-page argument. We make a natural remark to say that when a minister makes his own decision, there must be all logical support from the beginning. When further research is made on the question of expertise and whether it was comparable to the expertise of a judicial committee, it is referred to as a non-employment of new information provided by a judicial committee. However, the previous letter made comments on the evaluation of a judicial committee, the methodology of a judicial committee, and the decision of a judicial committee. We simply suggest that we in the memory of the section are not convinced of it, we do not believe that this study duty has been met. We're not saying it wasn't fulfilled, so I'll explain it again once before. Nor can we be sure, based on the discussion under the committee. I hope so. A senator heard this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u26	Madam President. A minister was leaving the council hall. Can the president please ask the Minister to attend the discussion? She is appointing 15 judges in a new court order, crossing the criteria of the Committee of Advisor to command four of them. Okay, thanks, she's on the scene. During my first talk, I want to review stage photos. What can be done now? Here we are, standing here sitting. The people of the land are watching. That's possible. What's at stake is trust in the justice system of the country. That's no joke. What forms are in the position? The picture that the board of directors and Ministers seem to want to choose. The prime minister was put forward to support the Ministry of Justice in the matter. The president of the council was used who wanted a plan, however. paritaprevir The Birgir man of the Ármannsson played his way as an executive in the matter, their most skilled man. He is very good at finding a way past matters, and we can cross them. Let's just say, so he's completely truthful, and so we don't have any fancy words: he's very good at what he does. If we take the approach to the matter being run through the council, and a minister leaves without having full support for his case, he will compromise with the law-original decision of the committee, muttered by the Minister's regulations, establishes a professional assessment procedures. The case is run through the council. A majority of the Generals agree with this despite having had two days to work on it while a minister had two weeks under law - a minister's law needs two weeks to evaluate the situation. Is it professional? Is there something else I should suggest? Congress has two days. This is what they want. If this minister's decision, which may compromise the law, as we have heard on the committee, is run through the council in two days while a minister had two weeks, then it must be investigated and the decisions made by a minister. This is permitted according to section 8 of Unit 1. 13th par. Parliamentary law. It says that a board of administrations and monitoring agencies monitors the decisions and practices of the Minister. It's clear that we need to look into it. During these two days, experts who have set up the committee have told us that a minister's procedure conflicts with a court order. They have repeatedly pointed us to a judgment example, that it needs to be examined. Okay, maybe it's just not like that, but in these two days we've got the tip on this and we realize we need to explore it. It will be done. Only three members of the Parliament are needed to do so. Less members of the Committee have made peace with that process. I'm going to have a formal confirmation that it's definitely that way. At the same time, the committee will investigate. They've started, the four people who have been talking about saying things. Look what's coming. If this is forced against us now on these grounds, the Ministerial Study will be performed immediately. Then fall in the charge of the minister's decision, and then it can happen again as it happened last time, when the Árni of Mathiesen was judged not to have gone to law on this matter, and the complete distrust of this judgment level and these four ministers. That is what we are facing. Distrust in the General for handling the matter this way and forcing it through. Distrust in courts. That's what it takes. There are some other forms that are less appealing. I can mention them in a second talk, but then the scene is the best. Yes, a minister had to make the decision within two weeks. She had two weeks, but she put it in when there were only two days left in the council according to the schedule. But the Council does not have to make a decision about an order until July 1. We've got a month, and then the committee's gonna let things work out. The case can be called at any time, and I propose it, tops. President, that the matter will only be called to the committee, and we will do it better, we can review all of its data, get clear whether a minister is breaking laws and regulations. If these people are to be appointed now, these judges will not be put back, despite the fact that they will be judged as illegal. It creates a lack of confidence in the national judgment system. It creates distrust in the Council, and rightly so. We want trust, but we want our trust to be just. How much is this? It just costs that we don't go on vacation now. It also takes that the minister may not receive the judges she wants because she and her logical support of this matter have been over and over again. Not all logical support, forgive, support to the authorities it has come to. The most likely stage is that they'll drive it through. It takes confidence in the judiciary system, it takes trust in the Council. Or we'll take the case back on the committee and continue to win it. We don't have to agree with it until July 1st. This is what we have. The Treaty states that the work of building trust in society's foundations, including the Generals and the courts, will be done. I'll tell you what I think is going on. Based on the fact that a minister would appear to the committee and say: "Yes, I didn't like this assessment from the Commission because there wasn't enough force in the case of a judge. We had the magazine in front of us where we read how this value was measured and it was shown regarding the experience of the judge, and we pointed it out to a minister: Yes, but we heard, why did you not replace the 12th person who was in the seventh? You produced a man with much court experience, more than others below, and entered a member who had some minor court experience. - Yes, no, no, no, I'm also looking to legal experience. Yes, but the person you put in is very little legal experience and less than anyone else you take out. This is not sufficient support for a minister, it's a history and a loss. All evidence suggests that this decision is made on arbitrary grounds. The minister says, "Yes, we have to get above these Excels papers." Excel files? It's food. You set a basis for your assessment, set a standard professional, objective, objective basis for your judgment. If men can't make a decision to evaluate a judge without starting over the Excel documents and figures, numbers that are designed to build the basis for professional neutral judgment to prevent arbitrary decisions, we can just throw out into the ocean of all the both of our support. It's completely incorruption when you're meeting an appropriate judge. According to the information, all evidence suggests that the decision is arbitrary. Why do humans make arbitrarily choice? Yeah, it's just like with power orders in general, people want their people. Is it because they can be backed up, and so on.? Yes, it does, but it doesn't even have to be. We're looking at the orders of a U.S. judge, the Supreme Court, what kind of fight that is. You try to protect yourself from someone who has the world view that they do. Judge's world vision affects the way he executes judgment. Of course, it is a moral hazard for a minister to make a arbitrary decision at the order of the judge. Will a minister have been tempted? What people are these whom she intends to command and take in excess of others without having reasoned them, not according to her own standards? Yeah, I'll take the judge's experience. Yeah, but wait, this should have moved a little different. - Yeah, no, no, no, I'll take legal experience, too. Here, it's just added things. Then there's the gender equal. Yes, but then you have to move only one woman to fulfill it. Yeah. Then why don't you move more women? If this is the case, more women should have moved to do so. The evidence indicates that this is an arbitrary decision. Would a minister have been tempted to appoint someone who has a similar view of the world or not on professional grounds, not according to his ability, but according to the world view? It's a moral hazard there, a real moral hazard. One thing we can do to find out is to identify who are appointed. It's something that journalists should do a bit exactly, a connection to the contacts appointed. It matters. We were setting moral standards at the General Assembly, including those of the United States. on stake ties and connections. We would have to be careful about them, of course, because they create a problem when making decisions, that is a serious temptation. Who are these people? Well, one party brought up is the wife of a senator. There's one party. It sees all the data that has been published. There's one party. It may not be necessary that this was an arbitrary decision, but this woman was developed and a logical minister does not agree with it, on the other hand, on the basis of the Commission's assessment, and the rational support of a minister is far from being as decisive as the Commission, the Qualition Committee. It's been a lot of history in it, and I haven't got a complete picture of why a minister makes this decision, changing the decision. I see that some people find something uncomfortable that I mention that a person chosen to land rights might be due to a arbitrary minister's decision is the wife of a senator. Is that any uncomfortable? Such conflicting interests are precisely taken in place, and the international community restated a covenant and a recommendation to do so. And GRECO, who is an alliance against the corruption we are in. It repeatedly shows that the General is setting rules of morality, preventing conflicting interests. Who else are up there that brings up 15 seats or 17, one party from the 30th seat? It's the husband of a former partner of Justice Minister, someone who did it because -- I've just read it in the news, I don't know people, I don't know this kind of thing, that relationship and all that. Maybe it's my aksnake in politics, I don't know it. But there I read in the core that a person who has been brought up by one of the 15How17 seats, and notice that the list is only 32 seats, a 30th seat, is brought up to 15 members. There is a member who is the husband of a former partner of Justice Minister for many years at the legal office and is today... [[Up front.]] - No, no, no. paritaprevir He's got a Birgir's Ármannsson shaking his head. That doesn't seem to be the right information. [[Up front.]] - Control, yeah, okay. But clearly there are connections, these parties probably have a common world view. Was that a professional move? Was that a professional move? Was she on that basis professionally just as the law says? Is this a more qualified individual than the person taken out? That's what this is about. Ministers, as she has said many times and stands in the law, must choose the fittest. And we haven't been able to see why this person is more qualified than the other person to be taken out. What are we supposed to think? Seriously, what do we think? Should we really think that it is not possible for a minister to be tempted, to make arbitrarily? Shouldn't we really think so? Keep senators, keep them sharp. paritaprevir Is the year's Birgir Ármannsson, but the Minister of Justice in real life, that the people will not think so? Of course, if this is not beyond doubt, trust in a minister and at the Council is not justified. We have July 1 to make a decision and to work harder on it. The minority has proposed a paradox that the Council can dismiss this so that a minister can win it better, and we can do it so that it does not cause distrust, we can do this so that the people of the country can sit quietly and think: Okay, at last, there was a possible problem. And this new level of judgment, okay, that went off well in the whole process, then a minister got into a fight, but the case had landed well. We can be more confident that these people are not arbitraryly ordered, at least not to go against the food. There will be judicial decisions in this case. By this decision of the minister, which is all evidence to follow, i.e. Of course, in the case of an arbitrary decision, distrust is justified.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u27	Madam President. The nature of the matter, I believe, of course, should try to develop good words in this discussion at all levels of the matter, in which it is a problem with the trimetrical diagnosis of statehood on the basis of this matter. I agree with what. A senator's trust in courts, and all the branches of the state, if that is the case, is extremely important. I'll take the passage from you. paritaprevir The year's son Ármannsson said where the majority of the committee is concerned that a minister has handled this difficult authority, but I can't put any words at all. A senator, how he allows himself to speak in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] He speaks of temptation. I hope that the temptation problem is not such in this case, this political case that it has evidently become here that it cannot be so far away from the path of righteousness that it has so often taken for itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u28	A president would like to direct them to the council to respect a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u29	Madam President. The problem of temptation is only there. That is why we are on the side of huge international agreements against corruption and the European Parliament that work to introduce moral rules and to pressure the courts and members of the council to agree with the code of ethics. Hv. A senator has signed the General Code, I presume. They speak of conflicting interests. There is a moral hazard, and the minister is arbitrarily appointed. It is also the temptation for the committee to set things up in order to be arbitrary, and a minister has identified certain factors that would have been more successful and that would not be overlooked. The temptation problem is right there. That's why we're here at the Council. Hence, it was set up so that the Council would have to address this matter. We're vulnerable. That's what the experts told us on the committee. [[The president calls.]] A Bad Ass for What? Yes, so I'll read from the Constitution, with President's permission: ▪ Trust must be built on the foundation of society, including the Generals and Justices. That is what we can do, and we have time to July 1. Shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u30	Madam President. Yet, it is sad that this is the case and that we should allow ourselves to speak in this way of speaking about these matters. [[Up front.]] If I witness - if I get to finish, I have the word - to the finish. A senator claims that experts told the committee that there was one way or another in support of a minister's argument. That's not true. Experts, e.g. Please warn us that the General should not investigate the administrative matters. In this matter, there is nothing more than that a minister has followed all the rules set out in it and the frameworks that are designed to handle this case, to evaluate this complex, difficult, and important matter. That's the situation. Like what? A senator may just want to ask if he feels that the General should take this matter to himself, ordering a judge, because he speaks that way. There is nothing more to it than that a minister with authority, within his power frame, in his job, has done all that a lawman asks him to do. [[The president calls.]] It is Generalis to appreciate it in general. This has been done, has not been the case, but how. A senator appears to be involved in politics, which is very painful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u31	Madam President. The only politicians involved in the game is that at the Pirat's basic policy, we're supposed to protect and promote civil rights. It's impossible if we don't have a legal state in this country that can be trusted in the courts of the country. Because, in the end, the courts are defendable. And today, the Council is protected. The General doesn't eventually say, "Yes, this one, here, let's pick this one. No. In contrast, the Council has denied its authority. If a minister decides to compromise what the jury decides, the Allied will have a denial. A general council has a negative influence on this matter. We do not have enough information to evaluate what has come from the minister. That's why. In case of a moment. A senator really wants to work on building trust on basics of society, including The whole assembly and the courts can do it. A member of the committee who has not been caring for this matter has had time to review all the evidence and work on it. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Why? I'm sorry, isn't the senator of the Committee? Board of Directors and Control Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u33	Yeah. [[Up front.]] Okay. I'm sorry, there was something temporary that you may not have made. [[The president calls.]] Excuse me. At any rate, though, there is time for the matter to be won. It's July 1st. [[The president calls.]] Don't you think the Senator's all for that? [[The president calls.]] Let's do it again, it's the only politics, to win it better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u34	Showed up on everybody...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u35	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I don't agree with her. But I'd like to make some comments. The situation is now at the highest level. Minister has fulfilled his research duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u36	No, that's not in the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u37	It has been reported that she has reviewed the case, covered applications, reviewed the review of the jury, reviewed the applicants' objections, and has specifically called for the Commission's work data. In what ways has a minister not shown himself to have carried out his research responsibilities? That's my question to ask. A senator signing my section's opinion. What is the point of this case? Well, maybe. A senator answered that question and explained what is behind this statement that it is not shown that a minister has carried out his field service? What is behind this claim? What's the point?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u38	Madam President. As the senator quotes the committee: The minister has not been shown to have fulfilled his research duty. It's not shown. It is not demonstrated to the committee that a minister has in sufficient ways logically contrary to the judgment of a judicial committee, choosing four others instead of those selected by the judicial committee. It's not shown. That happened to the committee, and we kept asking the experts, and they even pointed. ... onthejudgment against Árni M. MathiesenurMahiesen. Maybe he just doesn't mean that. But they say he still applies according to law. Maybe it's different. It's not shown, it's not clear. We've had two days. A minister had two weeks. It's not shown. That's not clear. We're calling for a longer time to make it clear. Either way, we're reviewing the General Work Programme, which is repeated two weeks and longer over the General Work Programme. Isn't this important, to ensure confidence in the courts and the United States Council, that we can take more time to work this thing? We have July 1st. What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u39	Madam President. It seems quite clear to me that the memory of this case cannot explain, cannot reason, how he insists that a minister has not carried out his research duty. I think it's clear. It's been shown how to do the highest. Minister has reviewed the evidence, how she has investigated it, how she has requested the work data of the Committee. It's all there is to it. [[Up front.]] There's no question about it here. It wasn't. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, to challenge it. It's all there is to it. How is it not shown that a minister fulfilled his research responsibilities? The lesser part cannot live up to these claims, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u40	Madam President. I'm not a lawyer. Hv. A senator is a lawyer. But it happened to the committee experts in the administrative court. After a conversation with them, the data they referred to in this very short period of time, we were running in two days, the case came to us yesterday, run and repeatedly call for meetings in the Committee to try to review the case. Hv. A senator asks: "What is lacking? Exactly. What's the problem? There is no evidence that a minister fulfilled his duty. Do not show that a minister fulfilled it. This is referred to in the judgment and in the judgment from the Árni of Mathiesenur, the Councilman laughs? You have to realize that at the Council, public citizens are not all lawyers, and we need a fucking time to win this case. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking for respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u41	The president would like to direct them to members of the council to take care of their words in the public speaking program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u42	Yeah. I'll do it. I missed that word. But we are citizens who need time to win this case, and when experts tell us that this is not clear and point us to a court order that shows that a minister might be violating a law against a judge's order, we need time. We have July 1st to do that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u43	Madam President. I'm going to thank the senator for his input into this discussion. I'd like to ask him into one of the staged movies he's put up, and he thinks it's best, which is somehow on the way that we postpone a month, the committee gets calm and quiet, with a minister, I don't know, we'll talk about the alcohol bill in between season in peace and in person, and then after that month - I have the word here in pontu - I've got the word here in pontu - I've come up with a common opinion and we'll talk about a new judge. [[Up front.]] Why does the senator think it is so likely that this month will not be a discussion like this? Why does the senator think that the pressure on members of the council to change this decision and make one third list will not arise at this time? Does the senator think that the will of power to appoint such an office will be somewhat reduced during the summertime?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u44	No, senators are not to choose judges. It's the first thing. Hv. A senator, then, is mistaken for the scene. No, senators are not to choose judges. On the other hand, the senators are required to say yes or no to a decision or to offer a minister's motion. That's what the senators are supposed to do. We don't have enough information. It is not shown that logical support of a minister fulfills laws and regulations, as well as judgment examples, notice. There is no judgment example, everyone talking about law and order. Judgment examples are important too. That's what the executives of the administration court said and very capable lawyers who planted us on the committee. So it's not shown. We've had two days. The picture I'm talking about, is that it can be postponed, referred to a minister, it's one, or postponed, so that we can cross it better and make sure that the laws and regulations and judgments are followed when a minister departs from a judicial hearing. It's not shown. We are praying for some time so that we can be sure that this is true. Why else what? Otherwise, they've been ordered. [[The president calls.]] And it's like nature, that you make things enjoy the doubt that are not reversible. [[The president calls.]] If it is now ordered, the order is not reversible. Hence, we need time before it is appointed to the office. We have July 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u45	Madam President. I asked him why. A senator does not repeat his optimistic profile of what happened here. I asked the senator to answer the question, "I am not afraid that this additional month here would be given to put pressure on the senators, possibly from people who have applied for this position or from men related to it, to turn down the list in order to make some other list of those closely associated. " That's what I'm talking about. A senator wasn't afraid of that? It's what it is. A senator that if it does, and I think it's likely to be that way because I know human nature well, will it create peace and respect and more confidence in courts and the arrangement we're working on?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u46	Madam President. That's a very good point. Whatever it is. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek is the moral hazard of the senators, and they are under pressure to choose this one or the other. It is this temptation that I am speaking of, of course, as a minister of justice. All those in such positions of authority face a temptation. The senator is quite right, it is a temptation. So now it is possible that a minister has succumbed to this temptation and has arranged arbitraryly four ones himself to act out the temptation problem. I think it's the worst situation and much worse than the fact that we are fully reviewing the rational support of Ministers. Let's keep this transparent process, an open process to be professional how this is done, and if members of the council give in to their temptation problems and get pressured into ordering others, etc. And say no to the other, and this is not good: but it is better than that one person should have this authority and stand before this temptation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u47	V.E.G. President. In some respects since last exchange, it may be appropriate to keep in mind that a minister has governmental, legal, and political responsibility for the decisions he makes. There is far more responsibility in this regard and in these circumstances than we do as members of the Parliament. In accordance with the laws now valid, a minister must stand before the council and support his decision. It is then a matter of opinion that members of Congress consider this evidence to be sufficient or inadequate. A minister may also find himself in a position to be appealed to because of the official application of such matters, as has occurred in various cases in the past. Of course, a minister's responsibility will be great. [[The president calls.]] This procedure is not related to this office transfer by an executive at the administrative level or by a court of law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u48	No, but the council has a denial, that is what the council has to say. That is what the council has been assigned to do. We can refuse. That's our power. We're vulnerable. The experts made it very clear, we're protected. We have denied power. I'm trying to recall the second question, that was the last question, there were other questions. [[No questions.]] We're this defender, we've got the power to say no. I may remember later what it was, I've got a few seconds left here, see if I remember. You see, this is something important. But we are the object of denial, and it's in our hands to say no. Today, we do not have enough information, and we do not have it in mind. [[Up front.]] No, or yes, exactly. But we've all been denying it, that's ours. [[The president calls.]] The power of denial is ours.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u49	V.E.G. President. What I was making up was that our position and ministers are naturally different in this regard. Whether an proposal from a minister comes to us is acceptable to us, we need to decide, and then, of course, a minister's job is to convince us of it. We, in the majority of the management and monitoring committees, believe that the recommendations made in this case are based on good and objective criteria and draw conclusions from this. However, in this regard, I may be pointing out that in addition to having to stand before the council and bear the political responsibility here, the minister is, of course, in the position that those who disagree with his conclusions in this matter can consult the courts. Of course, the investigation carried out in the courts is the nature of the matter according to the nature of the case rather than the investigation that can take place here within these walls. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u50	Madam President. I remember what I was going to say. The responsible minister, mentioned so much; it also appeared to experts who came before the committee that the minister's responsibility will never be effective. A responsible minister will not be effective. What's the minister's responsibility? To some extent a little political, it can be political too, but it came out, that the minister's responsibility will never be active. [[Up front.]] And a minister's decision is irreversible. That is why it takes time to work this matter. For as soon as the minister has appointed judges, they are appointed for life. There's nothing to turn them away. Of course, we do not want justice to be ours. Minister's decision is irreversible. Those who are not appointed will receive damage, there are small coins for the State, but what is lost is legitimate trust in the courts. The decision about the appointment of judges is irreversible. A responsible minister is in part political, but it's nothing so legal in any way, except a few small coins.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u51	A respectable president. Here is a judicial hearing made up of 15 judges with a new National Court. The proposal gives some consideration to the evaluation of 15 candidates for who are most suitable and therefore gave the opinion of a minister. In his proposal, however, a minister sees access to law No. 10/2017, No. 50/2016, which says the following, by permission of the president: ◯ At 1st. add three new proverbs to it: Name by name Section 4. a Justice Act, No. 15/1998, the applicant's qualications at the National Court for the first time should be assessed and a minister should be provided with a management of candidates according to 2 mg. the articles and rules that apply to the committees. Unauthorized is the office of judicial committees to appoint a man whom a judicial committee has not considered fit to be the most qualified among candidates, either one or the other. However, this can be taken care of if the General Assembly agrees with a secretary's proposal for permission to appoint to another anonymous candidate who meets the jury's assessment of all conditions of 2 and 3 mg. Twenty-one. fix these.How much more so that they don't need to be put in touch with the others. It should be noted here that all 33 candidates are considered appropriate according to this assessment. As per the 5 mgr. 45. g. Act of the General Assembly. We had our meeting at the highest. Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Chairman of the Commission, the President of the Commission of the Commission, the Björg Thorarensen, the Trausti Fannar Valsson, the Ingibjörg the Þorsteinsdóttir of the Iceland and Reimar Pétursson, from the office of the same agent of Iceland's attorneys Association as Tryggvi Gunnarsson, an agent of the Generals, and the Hafsteinn Dan Kristjánsson. The case is without condemnation, where a new court of appeals is being formed, the National Court, involved in the work of January 1, 2018. That is why 15 new judges must be appointed at one time to take over the office of governmental judges. Never before has a minister proposed the order of a judge for the Council to agree with this law. Therefore, we are in a new location, and we are wondering how we can carry out our work here. What's the role of the Generals? What is the role of administration and monitoring committee? Also on page 6 of the article "Do You Remember? " 4, that to the committee, the opinion was tore up that a minister was primarily to see if he had done the right work and prepared his decision in accordance with government regulations. Also, whether there is an appropriate comparison between candidates in relation to the needs of the National Court and his activities as well as the development of a minister's proposal on objective views. An agent and other experts before the committee pointed out that it is not obvious how the Council should fulfill this role. It would not be written in law, we would be following a new trail, and in addition to that, we would be dealing with a whole group, 15 people, a new institution, and, of course, need to be taken into account in the discussion. So, our mission on a board of administration and monitoring committee is not to discuss individual judicial matters but primarily to be a sort of defense of a minister's treatment of matters, the proposal made by the Minister to the council. In addition to this complex task, each member of the Parliament must vote for the judge to whom the proposal is made. But it's not the work of the Board and Control Committee, we're primarily supposed to evaluate the practices of Ministers. The purpose of these laws, to have this complexity, is to ensure the independence of the courts while ensuring that the utilities, the MAH, Minister, Presidency, if not merely a stamp pad on the Committee of Assessments, or the Council is just a sign of employment, whether it's a minister or someone else. As we considered the matter, the Committee Assessment Committee evaluated 15 of 33 - not 16, not 18 and not 25 - not the most qualified, even though all qualify according to the basic principles of being able to submit to the Court of Justice. When we discussed this, for it certainly took us to do so in order to understand whether a minister would normally compare with those whom she decided to take out of the group proposed and added to others by the committee's committee, it was not clear at all of the κmatrix to which the assessment committee had clearly benefited. For this reason, all we had were the comments of the Committee of Assessments. In this ◯Matrix, grades in different categories were graded with different significance that no one knew in advance, but now it has been published. There is a number of evidence to suggest that all equipment, the laws on how we should do this - that the situation we are in right now, i.e. when we are learning how to do this, we request a review of that arrangement. The work done on the peer assessment, in the Committee of Assessments, also needs to be clearer, more transparent, so that people know what they're doing. There was a number of peculiarities. When there's a difference between candidates - if they got 10 in everything, you get 10,05 or 10.5 - but when the difference between the 15th most qualified candidate and 16 is 0.03, you feel that you need more evidence that this is the case. Our problem, however, as members of the Committee was not that. I just wanted to point out that it was that way. Our problem is that we need to evaluate whether the minister has chosen the 15 most qualified. I agree completely with the Minister's opinion and if there's nothing wrong with it, it's written in the law that the Minister can say, "There are not 15 that are best qualified, but in this case 24, and the fundamental principles proposed by the minister by general logic support, i.e. In the case of an appeal court, it is reasonable that more will be done by a judge's experience and thus a larger group will be produced. Our problem is that a minister in our opinion does not clearly explain how she will then choose the 15 whom she proposes to be a judge, as well as all 15, of this 24 - man group. That's what we were evaluating. That is why we go through the matter, call the experts, ask them for opinions and help in evaluating it. They simply say, "We can't do it, we don't have it. " Thus, when it has been said that a minister did not perform research and sufficient evidence, it is because the evidence we have had in a very short period of time for a discussion of the committee does not enable us to say about it, without having any doubts on the basis of our conscience. We need to deal with her here at the council. It is our job every day to decide what is right and what is wrong, and then we cannot say: Yes, it is beyond doubt that a minister has made the right choice. We don't have that data, we haven't had time, and we haven't been able to get help to evaluate it, because they haven't had it or have had time to evaluate it. As we say in the minority opinion, we have a full grasp of the fact that a minister did not have much time either. Then, when we call for logical support, and the next day, there is only an additional argument about individual men, it sounds as if a minister didn't have enough time to give us exactly why she chose this 15 of 24 candidates. Actually, it can be said that when a minister says that she has decided to take into account the increased severity of court experience - which I can agree completely because it's an appeal court, I think it's a legitimate view, but there's no evidence to show how it alters this Šmatrix. But we must not forget that this is not statistics, it is not accurate science. A comprehensive assessment of the situation needs to be made, and therefore the selection of 15 new judges for the National Court, each one, needs to be reasoned with and referred to relevant data. If this were done, I do not intend to rule out that a minister's proposal had been evaluated, which is a valid treatment. Then we go to the Hall of Congress and vote as it is according to these laws. That obligation is given to us. But that's where we stand in the memory of things. My evaluation is that this is not a good enough trial for a minister, that it is not above doubt, that the minister has not shown the commission that she has carried out her research duty under the administration of the administration, that she has not respected objections. It was reported that a minister could not - that it was impossible for us to obtain enough expertise in the case. It was also obvious, we asked for it. They said: "We have neither the evidence nor the time to give you such, and the council and the commission were given far too short a time to consider the matter. Therefore, we said: Is it not more reasonable for the minister to withdraw the proposal, to offer logical support, either for this proposal or for a different proposal, but to support the selection of 15 members in which the study duties are met and the logical support indicated both in the opinion of the agent and the Supreme Court Court and the other condemned ones? We have stressed that the General and then perhaps a minister would have needed more time to resolve this matter. And that is not excluded, because I heard a conversation in the past that we had been convinced that this was a good suggestion, either this one or someone like it. But our problem is clear, and there we feel that there is no need. That's why we've suggested that there be another way, i.e. that the case had simply been dismissed, referred to a minister, and we returned here in two weeks, three weeks, and settled the matter after the committee had reviewed that all the treatments were satisfactory, receiving assistance from experts who could evaluate this. However, it is not for us to go to a administrative study, it is not for us to judge it. It will happen in the courts, or at the U.S. Marshal's office, if they search there. That's not what we're doing. We are primarily evaluating whether we are saying: Yes, this is a good procedure, we are ready to resolve the matter, and then we need to do the other part, i.e. to vote on judicial matters and establish this critical judgment level, intermediate level, national rights. I don't think it's a good idea that this is the case. As a result, I think there is a considerable need to consider that this arrangement, the rules of action, the work of the Committee of Assessments, needs to be reviewed. There is also a need to consider the real role of the Generals in this project. I believe, however, that it is beyond doubt that we have not had time to do this properly. I think it would have been very convenient if we could have agreed to the order of a judge just as we have agreed on this process throughout the council. I also think it would have been wise if the Minister and the Council Committee had had had enough time to make a more convincing suggestion to the council, this suggestion, or perhaps just a different suggestion. I don't want to rule out how it would have been enough for the people here to say, "Yes, it's okay, we can handle it. But in the circumstances that we are being offered today, I can't say: Yes, a minister's trial is okay. I have to say, it seems to be, all we've been able to say is that there was a considerable lack, and that is why we suggest that the case be referred again to the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u52	A respectable president. There are a number of matters where you are standing in this chair doing things that you don't necessarily like. You agree to a tunnel through some mountain where you don't want it made, you think it's time and money waste, you agree with taxes that you don't think are good or down taxes that you consider good and you do things that may be part of a government contract and you wouldn't have proposed. You agree with some compromise proposal that helped you do it yourself. This isn't one of those things. Here, I simply have deep, heartfelt conviction that I am doing what is right. I could never do anything but I'm doing here, I have a very deep conviction. I'm going to argue with that conviction in three steps. First of all, I'm going to argue that I think it's extremely unfortunate that we're over our heads with this choice. That's why I feel, for some reason, that I'm standing here and speaking in this matter. I don't want to do that, any more than I'd like to have a long discussion about a book study. I just think it's that kind of thing. I don't want this power, and if I have that authority, I don't want to talk about it for long. Then I'm going to argue that since I have this power, which I really don't like to have, I'm going to use it either at all or at best. Third, I'm going to argue that if I had the attitude that I should take a critical stand on the suggestion that has been received here from a minister--that is not my position, for I don't think I should take a critical stand on the list that I've been exposed to, but I know that it's the attitude of some members of the council here--then I'll argue that I would, however, in a good reconciliation and confident vote with the proposal made by the minister, and make it proud. Fourth, I'd like to come up with some ideas for solutions at the end of the day and see how we could try to land it in some good way. But to begin with, I'd like to say that I'm the cause of the courts. I've been in a board of directors who wrote a constitution. And I admit it, and there are many people, that I have since become a little doubtful about the evidence there was, but I say I am proud and satisfied with the work that was done when the chapter of judicial matters came to pass. This happened on the committee where I was president, and I am simply very pleased with that chapter. I think this section is a lot better than the chapter we have today. I'm gonna read the whole chapter, it's not long. By permission of the President: ▪98. par. Sentencing courts. The order of the courts, including the measure of judgment and the number of judges, shall be determined by law. 99. g. Independence courts. An independent court shall be guaranteed by law. 100r. Justice of the courts. Courts permanently determine rights and obligations to exclusive rights, as well as the charge of criminal conduct and the judicial decision of the court. Courts determine whether a law is compatible with a constitution. Justices determine whether governments have followed laws. For the decision of the government, justice will not come soon. 101st par. Iceland's Supreme Court. Iceland's Supreme Court is the Supreme Court of the State, and it has the final authority to resolve all legal cases. However, it may be decided by the law that a special court will permanently resolve differences between collective agreements and legitimate work stations, even though his decisions on punishment may be sent to other courts. 102st. The order of the judge. Judgments are those who have been appointed in the office of a judge for a period of time. For judicial purposes, courts can interpret or say good - bye to others as the law says. A minister appoints judges and releases them. The judge will not be permanently removed without judgment, only if he no longer meets the requirements for the office or does not carry out duties related to the work. 103. g. An independent judge. Judgments in their offices shall be according only to the law. Now let me show it to those interested in the history of the Council of Government that this was the case with legal proposals for a long time. But at the last minute, at the end of the council--and at the end of the council, there was no less action than here, that I can tell you, someone would feel that the end of the council would be like a picnic compared to what was done there, and I mean it--was added to an article about an order of an office which was generally taken only for a rather medald mob for the order of a judge in which the minister was assigned that authority. It sounded like this when it came to the judge: When a minister appoints the office of the judge and the district attorney, order shall be given to the president of Iceland to confirm. The order of President Synji is confirmed by the General Assembly to accept the order of 2/3 parts in order for it to take effect. This made it important for many executives to make some sort of defense against a arbitrary decision made by a minister, which is a word that has been mentioned here. I was taking probe, I can just say it here, not very fond of this way. Here we are about to enter the American concept of different power factors that match one another, which is true to say a somewhat old-fashioned thought when it comes to professional judges' positions and certainly not in the spirit of the best possible methods, in terms of, e.g. The European Union, the complete constitution, including this article, was carried on by the Venetian Committee. I'm here with the Venice Committee in front of me, which is English. I don't intend to read it whole in these articles, but I'm going to translate it lightly. It says that according to this report, the purpose of this law is for two thirds of a vote to ensure that judicial appointments are professional and objective. But in 96. The article on the order of officials is the final decision to make a judge's order entirely into the hands of politicians. The Venice Commission points out that although it may be okay if the Constitution requires that the arrangement be arranged in such a way that this authority should be formally warned that it is some kind of real power, a political power used as an emergency rescue to a minister's decisions. I'm going to read this quote in English, with the permission of a president, and then I'm going to get her in English: ▪ The Venice Commission's stresses the mechanism propsed by the space contains a klaner potential of polyisticating events.◯ - In other words, the Venetian Commission stresses that the arrangement proposed is a major possibility that politics will control the claims. ▪ This is the state of the European standards and can be considered accompanimentable. The Venice Committee is very concerned about this and says that it is unacceptable according to European guidelines to conduct an order by a judge in order that the council should finally confirm the order of the judge. Why does the Venice Committee feel that way? It is natural that the Venice Commission would like to avoid events and discussions like this. That's just the result. That's not good. The Venice Commission then points out that in the example cited, the dance example, this is quite different. This is how I think it would be a much better solution for a minister to choose, to turn the opinion of a professional committee -- which I recall to be a cosine of the council, but we can have it somehow - we can make it so that he can choose from among a class of qualified legalists who make the suggestion for a judge. If a minister chooses to appoint someone who is not on that list, he must inform the council not to vote but to announce it. It is considered acceptable by European guidelines. Then, if the council disagrees with a minister, it can express distrust for a minister. But the Minister is the one responsible for the decision. If you're responsible for your decision, you'll have to take it because otherwise, Madam President, you're free. It must be taken by a minister responsible for the decision. I think it's a much better setup in every way. It is noted that it has never occurred in Danmerk's history that a minister has ever named someone who has not been most respected. It might be done differently here, but I still think it's worth trying to test whether that arrangement isn't a much better driver than what we've proposed, I mean, by accident. All right. Now people say: Great, Pawel, you've been arguing that this arrangement is bad and that this power that you have, but you have it, haven't you? Nevertheless, you have that authority, and you should use it. And then I say, "I'm just not supposed to use it in one way or another, I'm not supposed to. " Whether we are here to like it better or worse, why not be a senator? We'll do well, we'll decide what we're going to do. I can vote with this proposal or against it, I can come with a contraband, I can change the order of the courts, and I will never have to bear any responsibility for anything except that political responsibility every four years. On the other hand, a minister who abuses his power in some way needs to present legal, administrative, political responsibility. And for that reason, I want to be extremely thrifty with this power. Therefore, I certainly do not want to take up the role of some kind of administrative court, i.e. I take comments from people who are unhappy with the order of judges, and call to experts to see how they feel about those comments, then try to shape some opinion from them, like a civilian. On the other hand, I try to take into account the comments of men who are highly educated in law and then of some people who are part of an organization who evaluate it. I just don't want this power, and I don't want to do it. There's another person who has that authority, and that's a minister. He's supposed to have that power. I don't want to evaluate the administrative decisions made by the Minister, let alone that I would like to evaluate the causes of the matter as a minister. If I do, there's a hell of a job, it's not that we'll have a good summer where the Ministers and the Committee will work together. No, it has already begun to disagree with members who applied for the job, sending open letters to members of the council to ask them to make this decision. Why do they do that? That's obvious. And there is no need to question personal ambition. Of course, it is an enormous issue when people stake their life on an application that may be hundreds of pages long and then be booked on a list. And then some other person comes and says, "It's not the art I want to follow, but it's a whole different list. I've been in a position to be on a list that someone else thought was not a good list. I was elected to the Council of Government, and then the Supreme Court of Iceland came and said that this list was not a list of people who were elected to a administrative body. It was hard, and I realize that people find it difficult. But I think one more month would just call for a month of public or personal candidates' calls at councilmen or others. I don't think that month would be good for you. However, if I were now in the desperate state of having to take a critical stand on the proposal of a minister, which I would say I do not want to do at all, and I find it extremely unfortunate that confidential information given to the committee is released a leak. They are obviously leaked out in order to throw down some applicants. Part of this data is so that you start to ask yourself, "Why is this guy in such a low, sudden state of mind?'- I have the word, OK. Senator. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u53	... You're accusing the committees...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u54	I told you that evidence was leaked out. It's unfortunate, I didn't say it happened from the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u55	A chair member has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u56	I told you that evidence leaked out, and that's incredibly unfortunate. Clearly, the fact that the data spill has brought reproach on some of the people on this list. I mean, however, after examining and reviewing the confidential information there are, that it's very easy - first of all, if you assume that a minister wanted to be an added judge. Second, if a person assumes that a minister took to heart the message that presented a number of times in this discourse in the release of this case, that at the order of a new court of judges, the ratio of the sex would have to be equal. If you think that a minister gave himself and took these points seriously and took them seriously, I can very well see from the evidence, the confidence shown in a particular table, that it has come to this conclusion. I might well have reached a similar conclusion if I had to evaluate it. It's my personal evaluation, someone else may disagree, but I don't want to discuss it too much in the platform because too much discussion about it will require that we discuss personal, confidential information and personal information from people who took a certain process in hopes of keeping confidential that somehow wasn't done. If I were to take a objective view of this matter based on the evidence available, I might reason on it. Perhaps someone thinks that some one name should be brought to another place, but in general, I feel that a provincial minister is sufficient and correct. As I say and have said before, I'd much rather take up a dance arrangement where there is an espionage committee, perhaps a chain of the Council, which chooses between capable individuals and a minister is bound because of the conclusion that if he chooses to compromise with her, he needs to report it to the Council in a special way. I think it's much better because it's a minister who makes it happen. And now let's say we take two more months or one more, and we make up a whole other list, throw out one name of this list, and replace it with another. Then comes someone on this list and falls out and pleads his case before the courts. It's gonna happen anyway. When 30 of the country's lawyers and women apply for a job they want, it is very unlikely that they will end up being sullied. It's gonna happen anyway. Then, if we have decided to take any one or two names from the list and replace it with those individuals, and they will sue and represent the courts, then what status are we in? A minister is charged not to hire a man or a woman whom a minister wishes to hire. How does it work? It simply does not work out. Therefore, we should not seek that authority. I only want to talk to the members of the council who are here, if they please remain in the hall, but I understand that they have other responsibilities. I'm more than ready to sit down with people and review these confidential data and reason on my case, I think there's a good objective of discussing it. I don't generally want to do that, but if it happens to turn to someone, I'm quite willing to do it. That's my offer now until the end of the day. After all, we have to make a decision. But I'm willing to convince people about it. If people don't agree to this list, I have a specific toolbox for people I want them to think about using. First of all, I would earnestly beg people from my deepest heart not to vote against this proposal, that there would not be red lights on the buttons when we're putting a new cross point. It would be very bad, and I think if it were, it would be heavier than tears. At least I ask people who are thinking about taking the yellow button instead. If people are considering going to the yellow button, I would ask them to consider going to the green button with the detailed explanation that they are not blessing the whole process, that is, merely a blessing on their view that they are successful that a new cross line will be ordered, without doubt, on the basis of confidence in individual judges. It is one thing to have a lack of confidence in a non - group minister, but it is another to send them a message in complex votes about 15 names, that some of those who have no trust in the General Assembly. All of these are under the judicial committee of qualified individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I have to admit, I scratched my head pretty hard because I didn't really feel anything in her. Hv. A senator doesn't want this power. Then don't vote. It's very simple. If you, what? Senator, would you not have the authority to accept or deny or confirm this proposal is just the most fancy button there in your vote box called "Do not Resumerate," and then fulfills the vote. Senator all the expectations he makes about who this should be. It's just fine. That's a natural conclusion. Hv. A senator just seems, forgive the language, be completely outside driving this case. No one's talking about going back to the list. Where's what? A senator was involved in this discussion? They're talking about doing professional work, getting more reasoning, giving a minister an empty thing to back up his proposal. It can be just the same, but it can end that way, but it can have a decent rational support, which is offered by the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] What's the problem? A senator speaking, that we are going to reassign lists here? What's that strawy outfit? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u58	Madam President. I think it's a strange suggestion that if I don't want to have any authority, I should sit by. Why? I want this power to be a formal stamping power. For example, the president of Iceland has the authority to write under the office transfers of these judges. That's a three-way formal power. Technically, some wild president might decide to take the power to review this matter now. Perhaps someone will demand that he do so. Perhaps some citizen will say: "There have not been any formal requirements here, so let's sit down and review this food, look over this list, review the Minister's payment, and the Senate's payment. The President has this authority, and he has only formal authority, and he uses it in this way. I have this power, and, according to the European Parliament and the Venice Committee, I view it as a formality. I'm going to vote on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u59	A respectable president. I think this case is too serious to be followed. A senator in some high - sounding illustrations to compromise the matter. I don't view the Council as a time of stamping. It may well be. A senator will. I don't share that opinion. Then I'd like to ask. A senator directly and earnestly beg him to answer me, not use high - sounding illustrations, and make some example: What is wrong with giving more time for the treatment to become more professional if, for example, it would result in fewer criticism voices and accusations that this was not a professional case? It may well be. A senator may not feel that that that time is well spent, as he did in his talk, but what is wrong with us trying to settle the new judgment stage in the country? What would so terrible happen in a life of what? If we gave it a few more weeks to improve our work, would the senator and the timing of his role? That's what it's all about. Senator, not what names are on this list. I don't even know what names are on this list. It's a business matter. It's not an acceptable language. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u60	This approach cannot be viewed as an acceptable way of speaking. I did not say that the Council is a common label center, I simply said that I would be most comfortable with the fact that in this matter, the authority of the Council is mainly formal, and that is, in the spirit of the counsel given by the Council of Europe. [[... answer the question.]] [[I've already said all that.]] I'm sorry, I just thought this clockwork was a little bad, and I admit that now the question has gone out of my own head. She turned - time? [[Set up time.]] [[Up front.]] I don't want to extend it. It's just that simple. I'm not the optimistic conclusion that all -- now I've become, Madam President. There's nothing wrong with that. I don't believe that the results of another month's work would bring more peace, more tranquillity, and more reconciliation. I think it would create more conferences like this, and it might well be that the result would be another list, and it would just be bad. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u61	A respectable president. It's a great arrangement. A senator's putting up here. However, the presentation is a very good misdirection from what really matters here. Hv. A senator says the matter is about the intervention of the council by the order of a judge, but I refuse to accept that language because the reasons I have are protesting a minister's march. You see, the General has a follow-up role on the activities and decisions of the Minister, and here is a minister's decision for discussion. That's my decision. I want to run a surveillance role for it. Hv. A senator mentions that he doesn't want this power, and it seems a little strange to me. Does he want to cancel the council's surveillance role against counsellors? Now the government has its place in the process. A senator proposes: A food committee is provided with a list, just as is the case. A senator came along, a minister offers another suggestion that he announces to the council, and the Council decides whether they are trusting or not. That's what the waiver is about. [[The president calls.]] Now it can. A senator was freed from this power that he would not want to have by simply dismissing the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u62	Madam President. If I'd like to dismiss the matter, I'm telling Minister I'm not pleased with his suggestion. Whether there are names or anything else in it. But in that way, I am undeniably a part of it. It's just that simple. I'm here to discuss the decision made by the minister. And I just don't want to have that power because I'm not responsible for this decision. It is a minister who is responsible for the decision, and it is his to take it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u63	A respectable president. That's great, huh? A senator trusts a minister. However, not all members of the council in this room during the two days, apparently long enough for a reason. A senator, to make sure a minister is not in the confusion. Others snarl. Parliamentaries have not had that time. Why should we have confidence in the Governing Body or in what it says? I wasn't on the committee. I haven't had the time the committee has had to study all the data that was presented there. Still, I'm going to take an informed stand for this order. Hv. A senator offers an appointment until five o'clock to explain that position. Why is it a time limit? I don't understand. Why until five? Do you think that's really enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u64	Madam President. It's probably just the time it's been negotiated for this to last. I offer an offer as a private senator, to speak with the senators calmly, without being torn out, and that I am forbidden to speak to them, that I may only speak to members of Congress alone. Maybe it's a nasty offer. Maybe they don't want to take it. And that's okay. It may seem that time is too short and that's fine. [[Up front.]] I'm just saying that I have deep conviction in this matter, and if I can pass that conviction on others, I feel that my time is spent. I don't believe the General should have a surveillance role. There are men here, for example. there is a specific way for the Commission and monitoring committee, to monitor the minister and her decision. However, I do not feel that this is a personal decision. That's just another question. In this decision, I feel that, according to the European Council's best recommendation, we should pretend that this authority is primarily formal. Since they have any other opinion, we have Generals' agencies, we have courts to determine whether a minister has done the law or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u65	Madam President. The 1st. in response to the highest possible response. Minister of Justice to a member of the mob. A senator. paritaprevir Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, of the change in court law law, of the fact that an emissary committee should look to gender grounds, made it her view that it was important for people with different backgrounds from the legal world, not just present courts or people who had worked in courts, but also for people of a wide variety of other legal matters; from the educational community, from the county, and others. The Justice Minister now has the authority to change the work order of the Qualitions Committee. It has the authority to influence the Committee's work rules before the committee makes the assessment. To that end a minister has authority. She has also repeatedly declared that she does not believe in gender. These are the perplexing viewpoints. A senator insists on a basic Minister's assessment. Once a minister has spoken against these views in the past, and she has the authority to turn them into the judgment of the jury, how can they be? A senator is confident that these are the viewpoints at the highest level. Minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u66	Exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u68	Madam President. As regards orders, that a minister has made office in the court outweighs the committee, it is simply a statement from the minister himself in her reply. [[THOSE: On the contrary to previous statements?]] This is just what has been stated in her statements. I won't talk about the previous Minister's statement. I'll just say what happened. And with regard to the other gender grounds, I think a minister would have felt right that it would have been difficult for her to include a list set out in the manner suggested by a panel of ten men against five women, and would have been incompatible with equality laws in the official committees of members of the council. So I think that point of view was fundamental. Then a senator asks about the rules made by a minister. I'm sorry, I don't have time for this in answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u69	Madam President. My questions simply turn to the authority that the minister had before this process began to influence the evaluation of the committee, i.e. A minister may decide that judging involves more than what he or she does in the case of the judicial committee before ruling. Before evaluating applications. To that end a minister has authority. It can change those rules. She chose not to. A minister has also and has the authority to accept the changes in my section's proposal that the law on the equal rights of men and women should be given when choosing such an office, since the law of equality does not apply to judges. But it would have been nice to enact the law that the jury, the selection committee, followed those views. If these are really the views of a minister, why didn't she say a pipe about it before this happened? Just afterwards, when it's convenient for her to take some to the yes-bunk she likes. How should we trust that? And I must ask myself at last: In what way is this comparable to the government's declaration of confidence in the Council and confidence in the courts? [[The president calls.]] It's just disturbing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u70	Madam President. The laws and regulations involved in this committee are given several factors to be looked upon by the committee, e.g. The experience of being a judge or an attorney's job, academic work, etc. These laws and regulations have no basis for a measure of importance. Nevertheless, this qualifications committee has been through, I don't know, experience, tradition, to determine the factors for a measure of importance. Set 20 to one factor, 20 to another, 10 to the other, as shown in the documents that have been accessed by members of Congress. There's nothing the Minister has set up. I'm not sure that I would want a minister to specify this specific scale... in a special Regulation. Maybe it would be more beneficial, but I don't think it's a great tradition, considering the legal process in Iceland. But I understand well, having looked over the list, that if a minister has found out that, for example, Justice has not been highly evaluated by the committee, because it is just some number that comes out of this committee, that she has come to this conclusion, that she has raised a number of individuals - it is just a very serious view.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u71	Madam President. The reason for this is a tablet and a level of relevance as assessed, etc., is referred to by the judicial committee. It speaks of the independence, efficiency, and role of a judge, that the decisions and orders of a judge should be based on objective viewpoints and merit and appreciation. Shared views. Objective viewpoint means exactly this. If we then review the objective views the committee sees and evaluate them objectively, which is only very normal - then. A senator came down to our councilroom of Pirata yesterday and spoke about what he mentioned here. I said, "Yes, please, let's go over it." I even mentioned it to him, for I remembered certain numbers that had come out. We went over it on the committee. Hv. There was a member of the committee. He asked a minister: "Yes, but if you take this one out of court, why would you take this one out in the seventh instead of the 12th? And then another one that's down there and that's women? The lesson and the minister - well, that's because I'm taking legal evaluations. [[The president calls.]] It didn't work out either. The numbers don't work. Hv. A senator was on the committee when we went over this. We can totally look at the numbers. All of this will appear in a court case, and now there is a senator up here in Pontta telling a whole nation something wrong. We'll see. A senator might want to take a close look at this before claiming something here in a pita.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u72	President wants to remind you. Councilmen to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u73	Madam President. I don't think it's customary to refer directly to people's words at committee meetings, although they do so by certain means, a form of gestures.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u74	I see.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u75	I don't think it's simply appropriate and not worthy of this institution. [[Mr. Secretary?]] Here, people are subject to mental and objective evaluations. For some reason the Committee decides from tradition that one factor is the experience in the court and that 20%, second factor, social work, is allowed at least 5%. Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u76	The minister knew.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u77	It's just something the committee has decided to do over the years. There is no specific improvement in doing so in this way. It's no science. You don't get some table on the best judge advice so that a professional minister knows you always hire the best judges if you have one factor of 20% and another factor of your worth. Such devices are good because making a very bad decision with them is harder. Of course you can. These are excellent tools, but they do not prevent a minister from using other objective views based on the work of the Committee. [[The president calls.]] I think the minister did it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u78	Madam President. Hv. A senator has been elected to the General Assembly and, as he says, has been elected by surveillance. One of the surveillance roles of the administration and monitoring committee, since the senator has decided to enter it for his party, is to investigate the decisions and procedures of the Minister if necessary according to the follow-up of the General Assembly. The Senator wants us to finish this case even if we have time to July 1st. Although the decision he makes is irreversible, it is more important to close this issue quickly even though we have time to make it to July 1. It's irreversible. He proposes that the decision be made even if it is irreversible, before we can perform the surveillance role of the Councilman, to see if there is any doubt about the legal procedure of a minister. If there is no doubt that a minister has followed laws and regulations in his decisions and actions - but that is what we are calling for. We're not calling for the art to be this way or gay. We are calling for doubt as to whether the decisions and procedures of a minister are in accordance with laws and regulations and judgments. We have a chance to do that. [[The president calls.]] Which is more important?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u79	Madam President. Just so you can think of it, it's not that the committee has always turned in a number - numbered list that left an even higher priority on a suitable person. In view of the qualifications committee, men have often arranged a list in a way that would make one appear the most suitable, some that followed, and then some people followed. It is not that the minister could have made it possible for a list of 15 people that she could not compromise in any way. One minister could not consider this from past experiences in the case. [[Up front.]] She couldn't give it to herself. And I think it was a bit of a surprise to a minister. I was surprised too. I thought the minister would get some priority list that she could then choose from, and so on. taking into account gender disorders, known to be of interest to many. The reason I'm all right with taking this step is, and don't forget, that it's all qualified people. All of the judges that have been deemed qualified to fulfill the position of being judges in the Country Court. [[The president calls.]] That's why I don't think the irreversible damage would be irreversible because it's all qualified people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u80	President. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Could you be reasoning with a closed door, excuse me? Pawel, could you be reasoning with a closed door? President. I must say that the treatment that touches such an important pillar under the court is a disgrace. I miss seeing here the highest. Ministers of Justice are here to listen to us members of Congress discuss this matter. This is the nature and nature of the case. Ministers have treated the council in such a way that I cannot help but declare mistrust at the highest level. Minister. The reason for this is complex. First, we were not allowed access to the decision of a minister until the day before the end of the council or two days before the end of the council. At the same time, we are here on votes that require that we keep our minds on it completely. We've had a very small meeting on the board and surveillance committee, where I'm in my seat with a few more members of the council who have spoken here today. We called after a written opinion, a written reply from a minister yesterday to which a minister was not available but was introduced orally. I'm really sorry about that. I would have chosen, when talking about such important things such as the procedure, that this treatment should be done as open as possible. As we have seen in the past and in talks, the Minister has not been consistent with himself in any of the trades he has presented to a administrative and surveillance committee. The reasonings that have developed do not match one another. In the memory of the section, we have called for the shortness of reason why certain individuals are moved to this list. If I had that kind of argument and could join with a minister and feel that he had legitimate suggestions, then I wouldn't be here today. But the minister did not offer us the opportunity. The minister's offer is to change the basis for who takes the new judgment stage. She changed the criteria afterwards. And her explanation of that crucial change cannot be met. Then it is moved to a member of the seventh fittest after not just any excel document, dear senators, no, but by logical comparisons and analyses of every level of opportunity. There can be everything in the opinion and report of the jury, the Commission of Education appointed to provide guidance on how we could in the best way bring a new level of judgment. With members of the smaller part of the administrative and monitoring committee and the heads of the clans and members of the Parliament have repeatedly called upon us to be given the normal time to go over this properly, so that we could in good conscience pay this matter. But it was decided not to. We would have liked to hear the minister explain to us why a man of the 30th list of 15 is presented to the seventh position. Why is someone in the 23rd place reserved for the 11th? Where is the evidence for that? No, we're here with the mind: this is mine, I'm allowed. Minister of Justice? Yeah. The Independence Party? Yeah. It's always been that way. And so this will always be, because we're looking up at members of a new group that talk about themselves as a system-change group coming here and giving themselves up in the public office of no more or less than the monitoring role of the management and monitoring committee. What kind of classy thing is this? I don't have a word for it. I'm in a hot mood. I'll tell you why, what. Senators. In 2010, when this issue was taken up, hung around this judgment stage, the concern was natural that ministers would lose sight of their objective and make their interests their own. Therefore, the then members of the movement, the development of a change in plans that would have resulted in maintenance of a minister each time, I don't care what group. The suggestion included the need for two thirds of the members of the council to agree with the proposal of a justice minister to change every time from a judicial hearing or a judicial hearing instituted by the Minister himself. Sadly, though, it was a disgruntled by the then government of Sigurðardóttir the Sigurddóttir. I'm really sorry. It shows that no matter who's in control, it doesn't matter. If we don't have clear rules that violate the authority of the Ministers, we'll have this situation over and over again. Here comes a senator who says we should change this. He says we should have another type of work. Should we make such a procedure so that all those appointed to measure the proper judges will be heard in some way during the council? I think it's very strange. It would have been enough if this adjustment would have been agreed to provide the minister with the awareness that he needed more than that to get his suggestions approved. Then the minister would have been forced to follow a natural trial where the need to establish solid reasons why people who are highly evinced are able to move far down the list and those who are not evaluated in the same way should be brought up in their place. It has been said that we must not talk about individuals or their interests. I'm not gonna do that. But I encourage people to study these individuals and the individuals who are transferred. It doesn't matter how we try to be money and grace and perfunctory, it's quite obvious a party connection. I think it's very sad. I think it's really sad. We are not supposed to order judges from which party cards they have. After all, let it go, and even though it doesn't matter who these people are, and we would just blindly rely on the minister's evaluation, despite the fact that the matter is not completely clear, it is that according to the law adopted at the General Assembly, the Council should be protected if it is necessary for a minister to go beyond his authority. I'm very much at heart with these issues. This is one of the reasons why I had the option of going to the General, a civilian, in an effort to establish a real threefold change in society's authority. I envisioned, just as I saw in the new constitution, the wand of New Iceland, where we wouldn't be subjected to this old power that everyone knows what is. I had a vision that we could come out of the massive collapse that has occurred here as a nation that would identify social factors that we could face together. One of the most important things in the state of justice is that there is confidence in the courts of the country. Otherwise, the law we're making here is no use. If there's no trust in the courts, there's no trust in the Lawgiver. If there is no confidence in the post office, in the Minister responsible for this, this dreary action in such an important matter, then the legal system is really weighed. When I have examined the matter--and I would have liked to talk about it much longer than until five o'clock today; it's all too short a time, unfortunately--then I would have just wanted to read it to all the senators, who, in fact, are not many of the administrative parts, who are interested in this matter, since they did not have time to study the results and assessments of the individual components of the excel document or of the celebrity, so that they could study the evidence of a judicial committee. I don't know if I should trust this jury more than a minister, but I know we have certain rules. The rules are in the manner in which to create credibility and confidence in the new level of judgment, as they always do, to get an independent judicial committee to choose according to professional judgement, according to the entirely other than thoughtful judgment, the most qualified. I listened to the reasons. To explain why he chose these four individuals, a minister of great importance and there gave way to the minister's trouble. The minister felt that he had power and knowledge, and he knows more than anyone else to see how such a court would best be treated according to many different attributes. Although the minister claimed that those with experience as judges would be raised, it was found that this did not seem to have mattered much. Although it was added to that point, there were all sorts of other arguments and then, somewhere in this matrix service at the highest level. Minister, we've come to the sex point. I would have liked to see how the minister came to this conclusion. What you and I critics criticize is that this is where we, who are supposed to be defensive, are required to make an uninformed decision on something as important. When councilmen come here and compare it to shopping, I just don't know what to say, to compare it with that we suddenly start talking about a liquor bill. What kind of disrespect does that have to do with the legal kingdom? What kind of-- Well, I don't know. I don't have a word for that kind of logic. I think it's at such a strange level. The most disturbing thing when I listened to the minister, and then the more part of the management and surveillance committee was, first of all, that through all the minister's answers, it was that feeling, and I enrolled it into points of the meeting, that the minister thought he knew better than anyone else. It's dangerous. No one knows better than anyone else. We don't know who the minister has been giving counsel. We don't know how he found out what the results are. It would be uncomfortable for us senators to make a decision and vote for individuals we have to do later today. Therefore, I believe the most successful way would be to bring the case back to the minister, since the greater part would not allow us the legal right to take that right from its own members. I don't think it's surprising that adults who don't want to make informed decisions, although we may have reached exactly the same conclusion. Should we not examine and know what we are doing, regardless of what we are doing? I'm absolutely not allowed to understand that kind of logic. I tried as hard as I could to learn the tips we received on a board of administration and surveillance committee. I couldn't read all the indications, but we had a very useful meeting with specialists, a variety of experts, who gave us members of the Board and Control Committee that indication, and it was unanimous that we needed to understand further. Why was that impossible? If the members of the greater part feel that they are properly informed, why take that right away in the smaller section? Hold it. Senators in the greater part that we're just playing some political game? Do they really think that it is our job to represent the public at the Council just to take their word because they trusted their minister, who is represented by them? What kind of compromise is this? What kind of disrespect is this at the Assembly and the role we must play? What matters is that there is trust in the state of justice and credibility. Of course, we are the world champions of this hall to minimize the confidence and credibility of such an event. It's not the only incident. It is so common for us at the council to be pressured into some conference frame, about the end of the council, that there is no basis for saying distrust because it can bring some stewards together or the government today. I just have to say that I don't trust the Minister of Justice in the matter. If I can do this by doing it, I will do it later when the deportation proposal comes to the vote that this case will return to my father's house. Then senators who have expressed themselves that it would be good just to use the time and create new laws, knowing better how to do this. V.E.G. Ministers and ministers. Senators of the greater part: bring the law. Show us how to do this perfectly right, because it's obvious that the more part doesn't just speeches, but that the more part knows best, always. It's just not like that. I'm hoping that if the members of the council I've been working with in my category are ever involved in the government, they'll never feel that they're above having to consult more than their own brothers. I'm going to hope that we can live in such a state, by means of a justice like this, in a convention, that we can be confident that there are not always any interests involved, some special interests. When I vote for a vote with my mistrust plan tonight, called subjugation, I'll certainly vote with a waive vote. If it is not accepted, I will surely vote against these suggestions of the minister, not because I have anything against the people, but because I feel that the Minister dishonors the jury and the professional process that took place there. I think that's a disgrace and a disgrace. I wish I could have the highest. A minister would ask respect for bringing the matter into the council like this because it could have been solved differently, it might have been able to find a solution. But when people have already decided this, I'm allowed to do this, there's no way that they can get any meal media or get any information in order to make informed decisions. I'm sorry. Iceland today. Old Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u81	V.E.G. President. Perhaps there was one point in a talk. A senator whom I wanted to take special action even though I am, as men may imagine, disagrees much more. It was that the minister's authority was to make a partial proposal for matters other than the judicial committee or the judicial committee came to the conclusion of indiscretion in the activities of the judicial committee. I think it's a matter of protesting, if I understand. The senator's words, that she was referring to them. That's how it works. In many cases, a minister has stated that although she may have a different opinion than the judicial committee, she is not in any position to minimize her duties and to build largely on the work done on the part of the judicial committee. It is also clear in the case that the legal environment directly assumes that a minister can come to a different conclusion in his own way when a minister makes a suggestion, but the jury. I think it's a complete interpretation, if I put it that way, to argue that it would be interpreted every time as disrespect for the work of the judicial committee. It is simply assumed that a minister can come to a different conclusion in his own way and the law will clearly hide the minister's authority or authority in these cases rather than the jury. It is true, however, that a minister needs his suggestions and decisions in this regard that a minister does and will do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u82	President. First of all, we were not given sufficient support. On the other hand, the argument is solely clear that a minister was going to transfer people out of court experience. Then it turns out that it doesn't have an opinion. I feel as if the posts are being changed to be disrespectful to the work of the Committee. There is also disrespect for those who applied for this work. Those applying for this position applied for it on specific grounds. There was nowhere to say that a certain portion should be pulled up or down below or after. It was very clear that a wide variety of people were being searched for. I can fully understand that the Minister may have been trying to do so, but there is not enough way to convey the logical support we received in a memorandum from the minister to the management and monitoring committee. It only shows that a minister sees long and successful experience in being a judge. In that sense, I don't feel that this is enough. That's why we've been calling for further support from the minister. Well, since I've got what? A senator here would like to agree with him one question. I'd like to ask him if he supported the movement's transition to the greater part of the council needed to accept the changes made by Minister on the exact specific case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u83	First about the last question why. A senator, I just don't remember. I must confess that I do not remember precisely--no, I doubt it, but as I say I do not remember how I voted when this case passed through the council. [[Up front.]] The conclusion there was some sort of compromise if I knew it correctly. I think there are many conflicting views. The conclusion of this case was some sort of compromise. For other conditions. A senator mentioned that it is proper to bear in mind that candidates for the position or other citizens of this country could in advance have no expectations that any particular calculation of the jury would be of no value. What humans can read in the laws and regulations is that proposals for judges should be based on an overall assessment that includes professional experience, education, etc. in the list. But to assume that some of the work rules of the Committee, which have not been published and that I have not seen until the administrative and monitoring committee - that some have applied on that basis or have had legitimate expectations on those grounds, are not correct. The situation is that when a minister, and he has a minister short of reasoning, he makes his suggestion, she calculates with the increased intensity of court experience, not just judge experience. No applicant is evaluated on some grounds, but a minister gives reasons to support his conclusion by considering that it would be appropriate to pay more attention to the legal experience of men. The proposal then shows that the person who is added according to the assessment committee is individuals with experience, not for a few years, but for decades with local courts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u84	President. If we're going to go out with zero, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and ten, to keep in mind that the people who were brought down, especially the top of those who had been brought down, had experience. There were people who were down on the list that had been selected, who had less experience in judging. I'll name it as an example if we're going to go into these little things. Premiums are of great importance. The work has long been done by a certain kind of work. It was revealed in the reply of the chairman of a judicial committee that there has been a long history of decision making, it is not new. What a minister should have done, for this to be above all doubt, is to recommend them, as a minister can, to a judicial committee in advance that she claimed to place special emphasis on certain factors and then it would have been before. For example, a minister could have changed the rules around this procedure. It wasn't done. During the last term, two ministers of the Independence Party were temporarily serving as Ministers of the Interior. There were two ministers who worked very hard to get this process under way. It's not anymore. That's sad. It's so sad. In fact, former justice minister who resigned made more effort to ensure that there would be a professional deal with Congress and nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u85	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for her speech. It may be worth reminding you that what the good ministers did, the senator quoted correctly in this, and the work that all the partner worked on, would do as well as be as powerful a tool in our management system as expected, and I don't think there's any reason to worry about anything else, is a big part of it, and it's perfectly clear that the cause of the hosts is with a minister. It evaluated a minister, and there's no clear evidence of that. It's under the legal code of the management board, and there's nothing in my mind as a representative of the administrative and monitoring committee which suggests other than that a minister acted in strict agreement with the sources and the code of law that he was written in that context. I hear that the committee is quoted by specialists, and it's fine. I don't think they're saying what their experts said or did not say. I don't agree that experts agree that there was something wrong with it. However, I would like to remind you that the committee was encouraged to fit, to warn that the General would not personally have a government investigation. To that end, I would like to take that opportunity at a time. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, coven. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, claimed that I had not been there for the entire work of the committee. In view of the importance of this discussion and what was said and done and what was assigned to take sides, I sat there every minute. I was wrong. Senator. It's too bad when we're talking about something so important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u86	President. The reviews I was referring to are all available on the Generals website, so I'm not referring to any word, it's just happening. Among other things, it is stated in a review sent by the Supreme Court by a board of administration and surveillance committee for the case that he was shocked to read the minister's arguments for the changed order of candidates. What I find so important when we are considering these matters is that members of the Parliament realize that they are at the highest level. Minister has authority to make decisions, but the Council has no authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u87	Madam President. It may not be a great deal to repeat yourself here, since many are on the rosary and want to be understood to say so. It is entirely normal that members of the Committee disagree with whether the Minister's assessment and the logic there are sufficient for members of the Parliament to play a hard role, based on the triple analysis of the state's authority and the importance of the independence of the judges and the administrative procedures to be carried out. In all of this, I consider as a member of the Committee to Support Ministers. I feel that the evaluation is both general and specific and logical in this regard. I believe the council can enjoy pleasure. Whatever comes to the future, as we have seen today, there is a great deal to discuss in general how we have our legal environment for the future so that this situation is above doubt. We see here today that this is a complicated subject. It's not easy. It is so important that we all discuss it, even though we may be at the same time disagreeing on some matters as to whether a minister is fully above his doubts or not. I don't think so, others don't. Let's try in all the media to have the perspective that we are here a supervisor for the decision of the Commission and the Minister. The important thing is that independent courts will never be questioned. [[The president calls.]] It's our most important project here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u88	President. Of course, all of us must agree that the Kingdom is in the way that we can trust it. I cut by one of the senator's words. The Senator used the term ◯ appendage to describe the case. I would have thought it was supposed to be an indiscriminate form. That's what I would have thought. I have to say, first what. A senator speaks of the problem. The senator experienced that the trial is acceptable for his part, that the trial for many members of the committee was not at all satisfactory, not conclusive, but completely inadequate to allow us to make informed decisions. I don't like it when senators take the right of other members of Congress to handle such important matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u89	Madam President. As it should be clear to all, we here will discuss the proposal of 15 judges to a new court of law. An existing minister's proposal to address the overall order of a new court, which is given a very important new role in the national judiciary system and has set a turning point in the legal history. For this reason, it is fundamental and normal for careful action and the order of a judge to be above all doubt. After sitting at a meeting of the monitoring and management committee at this review, the minority, and I, in fact, feel that the preparation of the case is not sound enough. Since collapse, the trust of the public at the Council has been at a garbage category, reaching about 22%. Of course, we can't live to do that. The only way to regain this trust, I suppose you don't need to reinvest this trust, is to work here at work that transcends doubt at any given time. Madam President. Assessment of the applicant's job qualifications is often very tricky, and many estimating factors that need to be considered and chosen for the individual strengths. To be honest, a little special is to put it up like a simple account thing with one correct conclusion. I can agree with a Minister that there is a chance that there is a real difference between two candidates when there is a difference of 0.03% in a scale zero to ten. It would be more reasonable to count them as qualified as if two persons qualify, another view, such as gender proportions, and so forth. So it may not have been unexpected or even slightly understandable that a minister thought about this and looked to that in his final choice. Then it is also fair and reasonable to think that the views were discussed at the Council for the best use of a new court to reflect the difference between background and gender proportions. And now there is no debate that a minister is authorized to depart from a judicial hearing, as it will eventually be approved by a greater part of the Generalis. However, it does not account for the principles of the administrative court, which may include a minister. will be discussed in the judges and opinions of the Generals agent to appoint the most qualified of candidates. In order to do this, you need to investigate the matter carefully and support the results. That rule guarantees public interest and meets the Constitution's equal rule. In this regard, judgment can be given to the Supreme Court in case of No. 412/2010, from 14 April 2011, as part of the conclusion was that the minister's order to the district judge would not have met the protocol for making the decision. It is evident that there is sufficient evidence to support the development of at least those who are represented by a ministerial servant. as valid as the ones appointed by the judicial committee. Now it is clear, Madam President, that a minister of the jury's choice makes quite a change. In other words, the suggestion means that four of the 15 candidates considered to be the most qualified are disfellowshipped and four others are replaced. That's about what I'm talking about. quarter of the sentence. A minister and a General was given an extremely short period of time to review the matter. Of course, this is especially unfortunate in view of the importance of our role and the need for careful action. Therefore, the minority suggested that the case be postponed for a few weeks, and thus a minister could have fulfilled his research duties sufficiently. The Senate could have convened later in the summer to finish the case. I feel that there is too much at stake for us to take advantage of this increased amount of time that would have given us to make more peace with our conclusions. There is simply too much at stake for confidence in the courts of the country, so that people do not tempt it, since there is not a full unit of appeals. In fact, this is in harmony with the opinion of many of the experts who came before the committee. It's a good thing to mention, because of the reason. A senator came here and spoke of not everyone having been in one language. This is not the case at all. Still, they weighed heavily, the words of many of those who came in who felt that a minister could have fulfilled his study duty better if he had had had more time. They believed that in order to establish a special opinion and to allow a minister to examine and perform adequate assessments of individual applications, based on the viewpoints observed and best compatible with the national rights, she would have needed more time and possibly more access to data. Those were their words. Madam President. The administrative and monitoring committees were also dosed excessively short of time for the case. This, of course, is unfortunate, since I understand that there are very few rules on how the Algirdor's surveillance by this decision should be conducted. The minister had his letter dated May 29, the past, making specific comments on methodology and the findings of a judicial committee, including the results of a judicial committee. that assessments of the ability of a judge can never become mechanical and the magnitude of a judge's evaluation do not attain to the relevant significance and tore a general view that, on the basis of this proposal, a minister would give four new members of the panel while four candidates, as stated earlier, are agreed on by a judicial committee. Further, at a meeting of the Commission and the Commission on May 31, it was stated in the case of the minister that, in addition to the viewpoint, the need to look to the overall appearance of the newly appointed National Court, which can also be read on the subject of mental factors in a letter to the president of the 29th May. Therefore, I think it is clear that the subject of the management and monitoring committee is to evaluate the proposal of a minister and to determine whether the rational support of the Committee meets the requirements for support and investigational obligations of the Agency. It must be very clear from the General Assembly that if a minister decides to disfellowship a judicial committee, he should conduct his own investigation of the qualifications of candidates so that there is no doubt that qualified individuals are appointed in accordance with current principles of law. The decision to the Supreme Court in case 412/2010 shows that a minister carried out his own investigation and followed his own procedures. Of course, while the courts have since been changed, the same principles of the administrative law still apply in this respect, but the rule of investigation has been 10th. Government law emphasizes that governments fully eliminate existing issues and provide sufficient information for them. As mentioned earlier, many visitors came to the Committee, which indicated that a minister may be skeptical about matters that were sufficiently correct and reasoned in accordance with what is required. This may well have been the case, but this investigation has not been sufficient for the committee. That is why it would have been so welcome, I think, to try the process of giving in this a little longer so that the minister could certainly explain his case better and convince the members of the committee, because as I came to the beginning, I do not doubt for a moment that the minister's warrant is clear that the fengnu approval of the Generals. I don't even rule out that the list she suggested could eventually satisfy the requirements. Nor do I, as I first mentioned, feel that the decision of the judicial committee was that inconsistencies, not least in terms of the small difference between people, taking into consideration that this is always a subject of mental concern to some extent. That they have not been allowed to make a second suggestion. I'd like to make it clear that I'm not arguing about it. All I'm saying is that a minister has to support his decision in a very good way if he compromises the opinion of the committee, why one is hired rather than another. It is my opinion that the rational support of a minister to deviate from the Commission's assessment is not sufficiently thorough or subversive enough to convince me that these terrorists were correct. Then I would have no way of speaking against the individuals installed or discharging among the countless people who applied for it because it is obvious to experts who came before the committee that there were a huge number of qualified candidates for the position. I'm not going to have this much further, I just wanted to put my views in general and the United States, why we won't be able to support this. This is a fundamental matter, in regard to the order of the new court, which is given a very important role in the judicial system, and some say that it may be a turning point in the legal history. Many have waited a very long time for this and for the former minister of justice to prepare well and stressed that there would be a big blow at the beginning. Therefore, it is important that it remain. Therefore, my proposal is in line with the proposal of a smaller section of the Commission and Control Committee that the case will be dismissed and referred to a minister for more thorough implementation, so that it can submit data and eventually be able to take its stand and remain in full agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech and for cutting down his viewpoint on this matter. What I would like to ask him about his field of study. In view of the lesser part of the committee, the first factor is that a minister has not been shown to perform his research duties. I have not received any explanation from my share so far to see how a minister has not carried out his field service. In this case the secretary has reviewed the facts, reviewed applications, reviewed the Commission's review, reviewed the candidates' objections, and has specifically called for the Commission's work data. That's why I want an explanation, if any. A senator agrees with this, on what is lacking in this matter. What is needed to fulfill the claim that a minister has failed to fulfill his research responsibilities?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u91	Madam President. The groundworks made are not as obvious as they may seem at first, not even with reference to rational support by a minister on the increased level of judicial experience. First, there are those who drop down the list that may have considerably more experience in it than those who go up. Then a minister says that there are other factors to consider, and he needs to make a complete evaluation. It is, therefore, simply not enough to refer to the data from the Commission, the judicial committee, even though it should be fundamental, all 117 pages, and then merely give a four - page opinion where the four careers of the four listed in a list of 15 are traced. We need an explanation, too, for this is the case. A senator of protests had been examined. Of course, the four people who fell from the original list and down of 15 people did not get an opportunity to contradict me. Wouldn't there have to be some comparison between those who leave the list and those who enter on it? Not only is it so simple that four go up and four down, because changing the value of assessment factors like judge experience that affects another, because it's supposed to have a broad test on this one, so everything goes on. It would have been necessary to reevaluate with logical support for all these sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u92	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm here asking about the field of study as defined in the administrative rights; not for the rational support of a minister or anything else, not about the contradicting rights that humans have, but on this basis of investigation. How is it not shown that a minister did it? There is no answer to that question. On the contrary, there is a situation in which a minister has fulfilled his research duties. The minister has fulfilled his study duty, and there's no other evidence to which I ask, Madam President, why not? A senator will explain it a little better. [[The point is, says who?]] Hv. A senator gave a court order in case of Supreme Court 412/2010. There is a fundamental reason why the Supreme Court finds that a minister has not carried out his personal research duties, but in this matter, as a man has studied, the minister says that the committee has not carried out its research duties. Then comes the court, saying in addition that the minister has not been able to demonstrate his responsibility to study. In this case, this is not for distribution. It's got the highest. The minister said that the committee had sufficiently performed its study duty, added his role to the issue, to investigate all the evidence, and based on its decision on objective objective viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u93	Madam President. I think we may soon decide when a case is tested. However, investigation says 10th grade. Government law to emphasize that governance is responsible for the current case and that there is enough information to be obtained. We don't think it's simply to be distributed. Because why? A senator mentioned that a minister spoke of the judicial committee's being fully investigated, that is correct. This is shown in a review of the Ministry of Justice, where it tithes why these four people live on the list of 15 people. However, it is also stated in a letter to the president of the Generalis of May 29 that she is merely doubting that the judicial committee presented a fundamental view that was due her. There I agree a little bit with the highest. Minister of Justice. [[The point is: It does not focus on study obligations.]] It turns to the highest. In the first letter, a minister may find that the judicial committee did not really study to the full things that led up to the appointment of judges. That's it. A senator shakes his head just as he likes it all day, but that's the way it is. Of course, if there is any doubt that the general body feels that the matter is logical enough and fully researched, it should be made known. In any case, it is better to have honor than to plan to come in here on the last day without perhaps having studied the matter and just doing what is required of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u94	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a fine talk, who thoughtfully reviewed the matter and is hoping to make an explanation for those listening. However, I would like to continue this study and the role of Generalis in evaluating whether we can accept the ultimate proposal. Minister or not. What I think is a little missing, I agree. paritaprevir Björn Einarsson's party is that the missing study is somewhat missing and any missing data. It is now known that all the investigation carried out by the judicial committee is data in the case, data in this administrative case, all the data submitted by the committee, and the minister called in. The difference between this case and the Supreme Court 412/2010 is that a minister is based on the investigation of a judicial committee, but in the court the Minister criticized that a full investigation has not been carried out. But the highest. Minister of Justice now confirms that the investigation has been carried out and is based on that evidence. That's why I'm asking, "What's the missing evidence? What evidence is there that someone did not have the means to complete this investigation? There is also the fact that in these research data, a minister will evaluate it as the highest level. A minister is important for a new court order, a whole new national court. That's why I'm asking, "What do Ministers think?" It is the minister who makes an assessment here and who argues that she does not agree with the judgment of a judicial committee but is not critical of the study. It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u95	Madam President. It may be at the top. Ministers have done enough research. However, she has not explained it sufficiently to the committee and has provided evidence. In case of a moment. A senator decides to bake a cake, and he feels that it needs a little more flour, so it is not enough just to put more flour, as well as to determine if it affects other aspects of the recipe. That's the way it is. And it acknowledged the highest. A minister when she came to the committee that, of course, giving experience to judges had a more powerful effect on everything else too, because only that would have been too many judges, former ones, in this 15 - man court, so she suddenly had to start reducing the value of another person. She clearly needs to realize more about how she learned that a more intense week left the 30th place, or whatever it was, up to the 15th or 14th, or what I do know, and why the person in the 7th went down. There may be reasons for that. They have not been explained. Our role here is not in harmony with that. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek said we're just a stamp pad here, that would be a totally unnecessary part of it, and it would be keeping people here without anything to do. Our role in a board of administrations and monitoring committee is to determine whether a source as Minister certainly has to change from the decision of the jury rather than water. We do not agree with that. That is why, in effect, we give her a golden opportunity to get two, three weeks to collect the information she might have, put them on the table, reason on her case, and on June 30, we may all walk out of this place convinced that we had given the one of the most qualified 15 men a judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u96	A respectable president. I think the speculations that arise are more relevant about how far the council should take hold of humans. Should we start evaluating each candidate, or should we evaluate whether the Minister has provided objective reasons to evaluate candidates after fulfilling his or her study duties by based on all the information possible from the qualifications committee? The minister confirmed that she believed that the Commission met the investigational and administrative rights and based on them, but then he says: "I didn't agree with the evaluation. This is the assessment it is changing, and it argues that since the first day, the court could start out unscrupulously, it would be more important to evaluate the experience of the judge, because of the highest degree. Ministers are responsible, also responsible for a good start in the land. That's why she wanted to value her court experience more. At the same time, however, logic gives the highest support. It is true that a minister's overall need to look at a new court, and once a new person is brought in by a judge's experience, this will affect the overall view of the court. How far are we supposed to go? Shall we start evaluating each candidate at the General Assembly? I don't think so. I think it's up to us to determine if a minister has based on sufficient data in a professional and grammatical way that the overall view of the court needs to be in order and that the experience of a judge is of great value if he is to get out of the way without a doubt from the first day.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u97	Madam President. I'm going to the highest. Ministers not for a moment to have in mind anything other than to do their job well and make a suggestion of ambition according to her best awareness. However, she is responsible to support it well enough for an administration and monitoring committee so that this committee may be sure that her viewpoint on a significant point taken from the decision of the jury is better than that of the Committee. When it comes to a question, why? The senator's decision to evaluate each and every one of us, or whether we should consult the complete list, is exactly so that a board of administrations and monitoring committee is to be reviewed, not on an individual basis. Then, for some mysterious reason, it is here at a council hall that we are paid with or against every individual. As I said before, and will not go back to review the illustration of cake making, it is just to make a decision to increase the severity of a judge when the other hand is to give it a lot of weight, and to raise more judges will be involved. It must simply provide a comprehensive assessment, precise research material that shows that she has had perplexing reasons to step in on this great and many points from the decision of the judicial committee without my stamping and giving her a proof of health care, which is our job to do. That's what we're going to try to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u98	Madam President. V.E.G. The Andersen of justice Sigríður asked about his position on recycling by a journalist. She said for a prince's sake, she didn't sort the trash. We all have a different princely burden. Some of us want to increase transparency, increase professional ability, increase trust, more conversation, less amateur. This government issued a government covenant, including a government covenant. It speaks of an action plan on climate. V.E.G. The Environment Minister has even issued a large statement about how it has ended a major industrial policy in Iceland, something that is difficult to predict as a series of toxic clouds in the South. However, so much is certain that the chapters of the Mosaic Law covenant deal with trust can be thrown right into the trash. There's no trust, Madam President. You, my dear government, do not even trust in your own policies. A respectable president. I don't know what kind of trash Sigríður Andersen would throw away the government contract. Paper trash? Maybe it would be for a prince's motive to roll the paper together and put it secretly among the aluminium sauces. I'm at least. Interestingly, she used the classification system to select judges. Use a man as a standard of professional experience, education, or variety to understand how he will find out who gets to judge the guilt and innocence of Icelanders, who gets to decide the tricky issues that come out of a local court, and if you assume that there are qualifications and knowledge used to select the most qualified people, there is no way to understand what the Supreme Court is. Minister of Justice is doing it. Last night, in a report of RUV, the following was presented by President's permission: ▪ Jóhannes Karl Sveinsson, the Supreme Court attorney with decades of experience and work for the government, severely criticizes Sigríður in a review he sent to a board of administrations and monitoring committees. He says that a minister's aim is to become an animal because of the possibility of improving the rights of several candidates and that there is a scandal that will cause long-term problems in the legal system itself. Jóhannes is well - known that some do not resist the temptation to appoint their friends, their brothers, or even their relatives in office, but pass by those whom they consider to be irrefutable national views or if they feel that they are going to settle certain causes. He says that the legal system has been dealing with the consequences of the orders of the judicial office of a judge since 2007. It seems that in December 2007, most of it refers to the order of the son of Þorsteinn Davíðsson to the office of a local judge. A few years earlier, the order of Ólafur Börkur, son of the Þorvaldsson, to the office of the Supreme Court, was criticized. Jóhannes Karl said that by a change of law in 2010, a minister of justice was to prevent him from falling into temptation in the order of a judge. Therefore, it must be minimally necessary for a minister to provide sufficient evidence to convince the General Assembly and others that a judicial committee of candidates has reached the wrong conclusion. He says that he was shocked to read the logical support of the minister for the changed order of candidates. ▪ They meet no minimum demands of government support, and they also do not measure up to any material opinion. Thus, there is no evidence to select the 15 best ministers. Jóhannes Karl says that a minister of scurry cannot be based on her view that a judge's experience should be more fitting than the committee decided. This is reasoned by the fact that Eiríkur Jónsson, the most respected seventh person, was replaced, while other candidates with less judicial experience, were left alone. Such preconceived tactics will be consulted, says Jóhannes Karl in his review. He asks: "When certain candidates were replaced, the political opinions of the past were used to interpret. " ▪ Did you become friends and political ties in order for others to be replaced? ◯ President. Maybe there's some kind of prince thing at the top. Ministers simply not to sort, or perhaps it is simpler. If a person aims at a party card, whether the member is a member of the Independence category or well married, then the picture suddenly gets clear. V.E.G. Ministers are classing garbage, despite everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u99	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to consider this discussion and see how much attention my talk immediately brings. All I want to do is enter the discussion on behalf of Bright Future. As President knows, a bright future will not be placed in a administrative and monitoring committee, but a bright future for a government arrival, and we've observed the case with the Minister of Justice. I've also come to as one of the council presidents, and we've been paying close attention to this work and discussion. Because I feel that the discussion, both in general during the last few days, and especially here at the Hall, has gone a little wide and wide, I would like to think only about what we are in and what the purpose of the General Assembly is in this work. It is taking one of the biggest steps in Icelandic courts for decades, i.e. We're putting up here a new court order, the third judgment level, an appeal court. Since it is one of the main points of our discussion over the decades that we have lacked a lack of quality, it is very important that we do well. During the past few years, there has been great reconciliation, great cooperation at the General Assembly, and in the committees of the Generals in preparing for the new level of judgment and setting up and implementing the land's rights. It is remarkable that we are in the position to appoint for the first time in the new period of complete justice, i.e. Not only are judges being appointed, as has of course been done and regularly taking place in the judicial system where judges are appointed, and judges are regularly retired. They're giving you a full order. Therefore, we have this special arrangement, this special emergency inhibitor, I want to call, that the minister's decision, which is unveiled, is responsible for the decision to put in the court - and I, in fact, rejoice to have the highest power. A minister who has specifically discussed and welcomed this responsibility because it is important to me that it be clear. The law was to have the emergency that the Council would come to the decision, or rather said, would have denied, in effect, the decision of a minister because of the uniqueness of ordering a single sentence. Although in this peaceful republic of Iceland we are indeed happy and happy, history shows us, and experience from various countries, even countries that we are living in and around us, shows that there is a problem when there is a potential party or one political party, one political party, can make a dramatic decision that could include some kind of exercise of power. In that case, it is very important to have an emergency, a refusalal force anywhere to act if that is the feeling. I found it very interesting to listen to a talk. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszeks, earlier today, wondered about his responsibility as a senator. I've struggled with the same thought that we've discussed this in the first class of Hearts for the future as to what is our real responsibility in this situation. It is clear that the General and the Generals are not a professional panel to candidates. It is not our job to choose individuals or to choose suitable individuals here at the General Assembly, for it is evident that our role is simply to reject or accept a list from a minister. Some of us are primarily responsible for paying attention, studying and determining how the decision is reasoned, how to make the ultimate proposal. A minister is supported by what she has returned to the president of the Generals. There I would like to agree with others who have spoken here and included the basic theme of the Committee members of the Commission and Control Committee that I am pleased with the legal support of the Minister. It is based on the work of an economist, which, as has been so often discussed in this chair, gave a 117 - page report in which all applicants were evaluated. It shows that 33 of the candidates were considered qualified to sit in the Country Court. V.E.G. One minister argues that she believes that there are other factors to consider when deciding who should be counted best and who should be designated. Justice experience has been considered. It has also been discussed, and it has been discussed in the discussion here when the Council laid this decision, that there is reason to watch, including. to see when this huge step is being taken. I'd like to stop for a second because it's important to me. Of course, legal knowledge and theoretical ability, experience in academic work and legal work are key when it comes to assessing the qualifications of judges. But it has been often discussed, and now there has been some controversies in the Council, I have heard of the problem of historical history very much leaning upon women when it comes to order in the courts. You can count on the fingers of one hand, but not two of the women who have sat in the U.S. Supreme Court. There's only one woman sitting there now. I believe it is important that, at least, a gender motive is taken in order of a new level of judgment. I think it's important to get to the top. Ministers here provide a list of the maximum sexual equilibrium balance. I really think that's a very important thing. Of course, it's not supposed to overshadow the qualifications of the judges, but I think it's an important step in the 21st century that we set a new level of judgment in which there is virtually equal sex rights. I reiterate to the highest. A minister has illogically reasoned that it will make changes on the list from the Commission's proposal including the review board. because she wants to put more emphasis on judicial experience. I agree and I agree with that argument. V.E.G. Similarly, a minister has noted that when it comes to assessing the qualifications and experience of all candidates, it is based on the work of the Assessment Committee, as outlined in the 117-page report. To say that my role as a senator and ours here at the Council is not to be a new committee of assessment, that is not to decide who should be appointed to a new national rights. Our decision is to say no, to accept or reject the list provided by the minister. The minister is responsible for an order in the court. In this regard, I believe my main role is to decide whether I approve of the logical support that the Minister has provided to the Commission and Control Committee, that I agree with the logic support. I'm fine with that job. I must say at the moment, and this belief is now strengthened rather than at the discussion today, that it is not in sight that there is a broad cross - political reconciliation on this key point in the discussion. The key point in the discussion today is: Do we believe that logical support is at the highest level? A minister is sufficient, or do we not feel that he is sufficient? That is really our position here at the Council. I'm sorry, but I don't see that we're gonna talk ourselves down on achieving a broad political reconciliation or approval for that key. I hear there's a pretty profound disagreement about that. I thought there was a lot of good stuff in the Committee of Directors and Boarding Committees. That's where even the two of them come from. ... soI will witness, by permission of the President: The second section does not agree that a minister has the authority to deviate from the judgment of a judicial committee as long as the greater part of the Generalis agree with that proposal. Of course, which we will yet do. It was shown in the matter of what. paritaprevir The victorious Sigurður of Jóhannsson, earlier today, that he would agree with the Minister's opinion that the decision or recommendation of the Committee to specify a number of 15 individuals most qualified in this 33 class would be based on more accurate science, but it would be easy to sign the difference between the assessment of the 15 most qualified and 16 most qualified of the population. That's right, there's hardly a statistically significant difference. I would like to agree that in this situation it is unconvinced that a minister is authorized by the law to make a change from the Commission's proposal as long as these changes involve putting the names of individuals who have been considered qualified to sit in the National Court. This is true of the proposal made by the Minister for the Council. In order to help and make the conversation more interesting, I hope that I will be able to return in a few minutes for other members of the council to participate in the discussion. Since the setting of this command was established, from the issue of setting up the national rights of the law 2010, there has been an opportunity to look out specifically for gender reasons in the order of the sentence. I think it's important, and I felt, like many others, very uncomfortable to see when, during the spring season, a list of references to the Committee of Assessments, how much leaned on women in that list. I have agreeed with others from the political landscape here at the General Assembly that at least there was a reason for special consideration. That's why I'm especially happy to propose. Minister that for the first time there is a right that has wide experience in qualified, experienced people of either sex. That's a good thing for a new course. Thanks again for the discussion. It's important. For us generals, this is an unusual discussion. We are not used to discussing here and taking sides on recruitment or working on individual individuals, except for the emissary of the Generalist and the State accountant, a position that is directly heard under the General Assembly. There is a bit of a particular situation where political discussions about such recruitments are under way. But in the strength of our being here to have an emergency control over possible abuse of power minister, who is certainly responsible for the decision and for this suggestion, I'd like to say that I take responsibility very seriously, to say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u100	Madam President. You're right. A senator and a chief. A minister says that there is no doubt that the Council is supposed to be this emergency controlor, an emergency valve, saying that either yes or no, has nothing to plan. That's not what they're talking about, everybody agrees on it. To determine if I should say yes or no to the list like he's laid by a minister, then he says "yes" or "no." Minister to investigate the regulations and decisions and logical support of the minister. He claims to have done so, satisfied and satisfied, uses both words, with logical support of ministers. So here's a test. What's enough for the highest. Minister of Health, what is enough information for him in order to assess the logical support of a minister so that he is pleased and satisfied with the support of a minister? Has he ever read the legal support of the Minister? How long did he take to learn about him? Has he read and compared the logic of the assessment committees? What is enough for a minister to be content with logic? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u101	Mr. President. This is one of those fun, deep questions, what is enough to make the person present acceptable? It is part of our job to make decisions based on the information we have. Often you make decisions based on smaller information, but you wanted to have less time than you wanted, but it's part of our duty to make that decision anyway. I have, like, a whisk. A senator must have become an enthusiast, been loaded up, as did many other members of the council in these last days. Therefore, I have not studied the logic of a minister as accurately as any member of the Board of Directors and Control Committee has done. But I've been watching and getting information, listening to members of the council who have been on the committee, and I'm content with the information to take my position on whether the logic support is acceptable or whether an emergency control should be used. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u102	Mr. President. Then we know. We also know that there are a few pages of logical support for a minister. It's not very long. That's exactly what we said, he's inadequate. Has a minister not even studied him? Does he not need to study this brief support from a minister in order to say that he is at peace with him? One minister says that he has been running and working loaded. We all are. That is exactly why we want to postpone this decision so that we can learn more about it, so that a minister can learn more about it. I think it's very serious that a minister should come up here and say he's speaking for a provincial minister, but then he has not even read logical support for a minister and what time he has had to read the 150-page review and logical support of the Commission that needs to be compared if you intend to make an informed decision as to whether to use the emergency inhibitor, whether to say, "No, Minister doesn't have enough support. " Here's a better argument. Give me a little more support. Make a good point, as good as the others, so let's do this, make an informed decision. [[The president calls.]] I'd say the Minister failed that test. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u103	President. Hv. Senator, the minister may have failed your test. We don't agree on all things, me and what. Senator. The minister did not say that he had not read or researched the support of a minister. I have. But as I said in my first answer, I would have wanted to do it better and deeper. I would like to maintain that rationalizing is not necessarily better if it is on more pages or worse if it is on less pages. A lot of great information, books, etc. which I've read, let's say, e.g. Just the book on the road, very short. And lots of bags, e.g. The Icelandic constitution, also the New Icelandic Constitution, is a relatively short one, but it is still important, so page numbers I do not specify in this context. It doesn't change that in the foundation, I'm happy that a minister has a short suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u104	A respectable president. It is always becoming more and more evident that my life vision and the highest. A minister is different, the way we want to see society best. Everything's fine. On the other hand, I and a minister, though, thought that as a fan of professional and difficult work, I did not, especially, base it on the top rate rate rate rate of the highest. Minister and then my introduction from him. That's why I did well when I was the highest. A minister spoke of one of the biggest steps in the Icelandic legal system for decades and the need for careful action was very important. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in which he is a great amateur to be able to decide whether he feels that two days over the past in all the currently busy activities, a meeting of committees that needed to be maintained at the time, reading data, writing committee opinion, the quality of the work as high as possible. Minister is so pleased. [[The president calls.]] It wasn't just at the top. One minister said that this could be something much better; it was only possible to understand at the top of a talk. Ministers, but that these were just as careful tactics as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That certainly surprised me in a case of the highest order. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u105	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator that we argue over many aspects of life and share, certainly, that it should be a challenge to work hard. That does not mean, however, that we are. A senator will always agree on whether his work was good or not, and I'm afraid that I'm not just a parent's difference between me and my husband. Of course, a senator will hold our political vision, for it is not the same; we represent each of us. When I discussed the importance of a problem of action and preparation in a new court order, of course, I did not mean just one point whether the General is using an emergency inhibitor to accept or reject a proposal. A minister of who is in the right but who is in charge of this court and of the National Court. There, the General has done a very good work ethic, and it has been very effective for a long time. [[The president calls.]] I accept the work the General has done during the last few days, but I know that we are. A senator does not agree on this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u106	A respectable president. No matter how hard you try boating, if the nail isn't good enough, the boat won't be good. Here we are finishing our sentence on a new level, one of the biggest steps in the Icelandic legal system, so I'll witness to the Supreme Court. Minister. It's under the roof. Ministers, it's all right that when the General concludes his work, there's a lot of solidarity. Minister hypnotized here if it's done incontrovertuously? That credibility does not exist with this final step? Because it doesn't matter if it's the highest. A minister agrees with the criticism of the object or is not; he cannot keep his eye on it; it is at hand. Not only the smaller parts, but also in the community. It's not cool with this great project, the biggest step in the Icelandic legal system for decades, so I'll witness again to the Minister. Is it not an unprofessional minister who leaves a new level of judgment in the shadow of such a conflict and with the highest support? A health minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u107	Mr. President. So I'll take illustrations first. A senator, that's when the boat is actually a menu, while it keeps water, is not the key to whether it's beautiful or ugly. When I discuss the fact that the sentence of the land and a new court level is one of the biggest steps, I mean to set the land's right, to put a new appeal level in an Icelandic judiciary. I do not mean which individuals are appointed to that judgment. Here comes a minister with a list of individuals from among 33 candidates who have been eligible for this judgment. This endpoint is the smallest project actually performed during a new judgment phase. So what? A senator is reading my words very strangely about the biggest step. [[The president calls.]] I tell you, I'm fine with this position, as if she turned to me as a general. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u108	Soap or...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u109	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister says that it is not our responsibility to appreciate the individual candidates. Rather, it is our responsibility to observe and see how a minister's decision is reasoned and whether it is well supported and based on professional judgements. I'll totally agree with that at the highest. Minister. That's why I'm gonna try to explain to the highest level. Minister on what the disagreement here is. We don't trust this estimate. Ministers because it conflicts with other matters previously stated by the minister. As I've been in before, I've had the highest. Minister of Justice in a talk in the district of 1st. about a change in court law that makes it very important for her to consider factors other than judges; she prefers much more than that. She had the opportunity to change the standard of the judicial committee before she took up the job. But now she has suddenly changed her mind, and she wants to evaluate the experience of judges. It doesn't rhyme with each other. I may come to the gender point of the second talk, it's such a short time for this, but I draw attention to the top. Similarly, a minister has repeatedly declared that she has no faith in it. [[The president calls.]] She cannot choose a suitable policy which views she looks at afterward. [[The president calls.]] That's what disagreements are about. [[The president calls.]] There's no trust in this assessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u110	Mr. President. I can agree with that with what. A senator says that we do not agree on the assessment of this reasoning. I think we would agree, though, that both the proposal list and the list at the highest level. The minister appointed the President of the Generals, who is here for our discussion for confirmation or demonstration, is a list of individuals who have been considered eligible for the work. It is clear that there is a difference, and it is remarkable that it is a clear political dispute between most parts and smaller parts in the General on whether the evidence is good enough or not. I'm sorry, but, of course, it would have been a better outcome for a new court of law that it would have been completely satisfied with this process, but unfortunately, I don't see it being born here today. I have to come to the second part of the question in the second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u111	Mr. President. A minister says before a command takes place, i.e. before the judgment of a judicial committee is prepared, that it would not be especially for judgment work, that it would put no special emphasis on this matter, but would like to see a great variety in the order of this court. The minister says before a judicial hearing is expected to have no faith in the thought of gender to the order of this new court because it does not believe in such language. Why should we trust it when a minister, after this assessment, offers any other basis for which she herself has spoken? This is what causes suspicion to the memory of the part of the council. Why should we believe that when a minister speaks against what she has said before, about something she also had perfect authority to change before the committee of assessment did not? She now uses the same criteria that she spoke to before the evaluation in order to justify changing the assessment afterwards. It's completely unpleasant. [[The president calls.]] That's what differences are about, not on paper.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u112	A respectable president. I wonder what. A senator may have come to some point in this issue of trust or distrust to the highest degree. Minister. V.E.G. A minister has talked about wanting to look more at judicial experience than the review board does in its profession. That is not to say the highest. Ministers are saying that she is looking only for court experience, but she has told both the commission and the public that it is based on an assessment by the panel on each candidate. There are many factors, not just the experience of judges. At least it's the highest. A minister has referred to her as her main support for making a change in the list, but it is quite clear that it is not the only factor she looks to as she gives her list. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u113	A respectable president. I have to admit, my friend ÓttarProppér statement is sader, perhaps even more sad. A minister is all the same a sensible and solution to a person who sees things in an excellent context and is a reasonable man, I would have thought. Here, however, he has repeatedly repeated it at the General Assembly Hall how pleased and satisfied he is with the decision of the Minister of Justice. Then I'd like to hear from the top. Minister to see if he is really pleased with the Minister's decision to throw out the 7th fittest candidate and take in the 30th candidate with even less experience than the 7th on the grounds that the Minister of Justice wanted to look into court experience. It's the highest. The minister and chairman of Bear's Future satisfied with this decision by the Minister of Justice? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u114	A respectable president. I love what I'm doing. A senator is interested and opinions of my character in particular, and he feels that I am an intelligent, therapeutic, and righteous man, so I testify to a word. Senator, with permission from the President. It's very nice to know, of course, but that doesn't necessarily mean that I and what. A senator automatically agrees on what that usually means. I do my work here at the General Assembly, take that responsibility very seriously. I am democratically elected to represent the public, and I have pledged to the Constitution to work here on my best conscience and as both my conscience and my knowledge as well as, of course, my political convictions allow. [[The president calls.]] That doesn't mean that I have to be a bad man, even though I disagree. A senator on some sort of thing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u115	A respectable president. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister of Honour if he feels I have mixed the character Fearari Proppér too much with the senator and the minister Fearar Proppér. Well, it wasn't my word here, though it wasn't at the top. A minister may disagree if either of us is a bad person. I asked only about the decision of the Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court. The health minister and president of the Bjarts'future are satisfied and satisfied with that decision. I'd like to add a question in a second answer: Is the Chairman of the Bright Future and the Supreme Court. Health Ministers agree with the ultimate argument. The Minister of Justice has presented himself here in this case? Could he accept and enjoy such things to the common people as to the fact that this evidence and this office stand fully administratively? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u116	A respectable president. I think it is for a very rich reason that in the few times that the General council takes place on the advice of individuals--I have once participated in such activities before, when it was due to validate the reinstatement of the General Assembly agent - that the vote is secret because I feel very bad that political decisions are made for individual recruitments and individual individuals. That's why I'm really sorry that today's debate went down to the stage for some of the candidates who are either on the top list. Minister or not. I think it's important to the candidates that they've all been eligible for sitting in the court. I repeat what I've said here several times that I don't think it's a reason to give the minister the red card for his logical support. [[The president calls.]] I know that not all council members agree on that view.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u117	Mr. President. We stand at a milestone in Icelandic fairs, milestones involving the order of 15 new judges at a brand - new court hearing. Sadly, instead of rejoicing at that milestone, they are bound with suspicion and distrust. How tragic it is that at this critical point, judicial ministers themselves, alone and unsatisfactory, have made an order for new judges to follow this course of suspicion and distrust, all of which are here. As we know, the proposal of a minister involves that four of the 15 candidates considered to be the most qualified are not a suitable minister, and four other candidates are replaced. Thus, the change from the judicial hearing is significant, as more than a quarter of the judges decided by the minister to take out of the judicial committee's proposal. A respectable president. There is no debate that a minister is authorized to compromise the judgment of a judicial committee, but as a matter of fact, a majority of the Generals agree with that proposal. Although a minister may be permitted to deviate from the jury's assessment, a minister is not free to choose the most eligible candidates. You see, a minister is not an exception to the principle of the administrative law, which has been discussed in the judges and the opinion of an agent of the Generals, based on a country's legal tradition for a long time, requiring that the fittest from among candidates be appointed. Why is that rule highly esteemed? Yes, because the principle of the administrative law is intended to ensure public interest and that principle meets the Constitution's equal rule. Unfortunately, it is here today to ask whether the Minister of Justice has decided to ignore the judicial committee's proposals in such a shocking way and without any sound reasoning, whether it will not be a major question whether the Justice Minister has followed this principle of the administrative legislation to ensure public interest and to provide equal protection, as the Iceland Constitution says. It's not just me that asks me. It's possible to find criticism of a minister's decisions in well-developed reviews of the matter, both from the Icelandic law and from Jóhannes Karl Sólnssson, the Sveinsson Court attorney who has worked within the legal system for 24 years. In these comments, a minister's order is criticized with a very clear support. Iceland's police union points out that it is completely unexplained why a minister decides that certain judges among the candidates are suddenly considered more qualified than those evaluated by the judicial committee, completely unexplained. Or, as the government of Iceland's Law Association, by permission of the President, says, that the minister's decision is completely unexplained as dedicated as it may be, cannot be explained in the course of the year. Iceland's police union strongly questions a Minister's office to meet the demands that can be brought, among other things, by the Supreme Court and the general rules of the administration. In Jóhannes Karl's letter to the Supreme Court attorney, the attorney points out that despite the decision of the Minister of Justice to compromise significantly from the decision of the judicial committee, the minister did not provide sufficient evidence that the judicial committee had reached the wrong conclusion with his proposal of a new judge. No hard argument. As has been traced both here and elsewhere, the minister has simply said that the experience is more important, but the minister's opinion is not enough. This position of the minister does not keep water for one second, a respectable president, due to the replacement of the minister to the candidate who was considered the seventh most qualified candidate of the jury but thrown out by the minister. And the Minister decides to bring in the applicant with less court experience. Others in the remaining candidates have less experience in judging than the person who was cast out. What does this preemptive strategy of the minister, a respectable president? Maybe just the minister's opinion. If this is the case, I remind you that here is not a minister making a direct decision under its authority but a job or position that belongs to another branch of the state, and that positions have special rules for independence, according to Article 61. The constitution. This was made clear in the judgment that fell on April 14, 2011, in the Árni Mathiesen. A respectable president. What data won the highest. Minister Sigríður Andersen with? What standard did she place in order to increase the value of judicial experience? Can we here be allowed to see that evidence, because choosing the judges is on the shoulders of our generals? What grammatical argument does a minister have for disregarding the standards set by the judicial committee? What perplexing argument has been made in her case when she decides to take out the candidate, as a professional committee considers the seventh most suitable of candidates, but recommends by the one referred to by the committee, one at the bottom of the list, according to their standards? If only to increase the value of judging experience, what evidence is there that a minister does not recommend a judge with seven years'experience recommended by the committee? What's this all about, Mr. Honorable President? Is it useful to be in grace with the minister of the Independence Party? To resist the thought - provoking evaluation set by the minister of justice? Is the choice of judges and people in positions in the community's institutions for treating the minister of the Independence Party? I don't want to believe that. But should lawyers who are ambitious for judicial action be careful to enjoy the personal favor of a justice minister? A respectable president. I have given birth to the hope that the time has passed since it seemed like the best way to be a judge in Iceland to be an uncle, son, or friend to a prime minister or president of the Independence Party. But I'm afraid, with the Minister of Justice in Choice of Justice now in a brand-new court, it's quite clear that that that time is by no means past. Sadly, it is impossible to wonder whether by this command it is possible to punish those who have disagreed with opinions other than those acceptable to the independent party and its Governing Body. In view of this, how sobering it is to consider whether this office is professional and solidly based! Is it really true that those who do not have exactly the same views as members of the Independence Party are being punished? And is that the message that governments's revered and the Bright Future want to send out that freedom of thought and freedom of expression is really ignored if you wish to succeed in your article? That it is best for you to be the chief friend and obey the call of freckles, otherwise your experience and knowledge will fail and your progress within your articles to which you were educated is absolutely hopeless. This is a bad message, a respectable president, especially to young people who are educated in the community. A respectable president. I feel like I've read about this kind of discussion so many times before, unfortunately. Perhaps in this speech here, by permission of the president: What we're looking at is a set of standards for defense of interests. [...] The political parties themselves are narrow power institutions that no longer represent political opinions but, rather, primarily for the interest stakes and interests they protect from point of view and egg. They are organizations, not movements. On March 14, 1983, this discourse was delivered in the public assembly of Senator Vilmundur Gylfason. How sad it is to see a 34 - year - old discussion so shameful today, June 1, 2017, of a respectable president! You see, if this office of Justice becomes a reality, that is proof that there is no new Iceland. We still live in the old, rotten Iceland Independence Party. New employment, here promised for elections of Bright Future and Forest, and voters have put their hopes far away. Far from it. This is a continuation of trees that have been used by the Independence Party and are, unfortunately, still routine. They get full support from the new categories. Full support. At best, it is amusing in this situation. We experience moral and creative failures to the government of the Independence Party, which resurgence and a bright future support, support friendship prostitution, unpleasantness, and political approval. A respectable president. How do members of the Parliament feel about the prospect of being a minister, not a practicer of professionalism? When it comes to voting on this legal proposal, the General must take a decision on the matter and see if a minister has done enough research and a thorough investigation of why it compromises the decision of the judicial committee. This means that the General shall have sufficient evidence to ensure that a minister has fully studied this matter so that this new assessment will be based on objective opinions on the applicant's ability. It hasn't been fully accomplished. Hence, the Council cannot support this misunderstanding of the order of the judge at a new level of judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u118	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir While I may not thank Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter for her bold talk, I am not very thanking her for her various messages she sent me, but I am not going to make it a topic of talk. I'd like to ask you why. A candidate of simple questions: Would the situation be followed by a list of judicial committees as it happens from the jury rather than a list of the minister's list of left greens accepted without comment and made no comments to gender proportions on that list?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u119	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Steindór Valdimarsson asks whether the left green would have approved a list of candidates for a new level of judgment if the Minister of Justice had made no comments on that list. If that list of names were valid enough, as shown by the judicial committee, I have no doubt that it would be more acceptable to us than the decision of a judicial minister. About the gender issues, because me and him. A senator disputes the view of wanting the sex values most and most of our community, I can't see that gender ideas are met when a male in his 30th place is pulled up for a number of women who are higher on the list, as per the jury's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u120	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I found that very interesting. I read it so that there would be no difference between the left and the left of the green, to the judge at this court.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u121	A respectable president. Yeah, we're what? A senator's interpretation is not quite correct, since the concept of gender is not guided by a minister's proposal. Then I ask them, "Is it? " A senator who is a feminist of his own, and I've seen him in that field, is satisfied with the proposal of a minister when it comes to the gender issues, because they do not have the basis for a minister's decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We had words earlier in the winter when the National Court was discussed. Then he spoke. A senator on male opinions about the qualifications of the committee and that she hoped a minister would bring a list of candidates with an equal sex ratio made by a minister. He'll argue with me in my opinion very objectively and in my opinion. to judge and to give extra jobs, to be looked upon in the case of a judge because they have fewer opportunities to do so than with lawyers. That's what I'm thinking. A senator asks: "Do I need to refer to gender issues when raising women, not to perplexity arguments, that they deserve and are as capable as any of those appointed? "
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter for his counter-sponsored response. In this case, the gender's reasons are for hiding political transfers. The sexual concept was not mentioned in the letter of the minister with the first support, it was not mentioned. They follow explanatory to atone certain voices in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u124	A respectable president. I was just witnessing because they were not mentioned, whether the evidence needed to be so that more women could be taken into the land's rights, as required by the highest standard. A minister said here, that the law on equality applies to this as well as any other. Then I wonder, like what? paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, what would be the discussion if this list of men who are already talking about being very well supported and not being wise to back off were discussed, with ten men and five women. And if there's a possibility there's a possibility there's an advisory committee like what. A senator spoke of earlier this winter, a man - made view of women, in this opinion of the qualifications committee. I believe, because they're all considered qualified individuals, that women can be brought in without any specific interpretation of the specific concept of gender.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. As mentioned in my previous answer, there are gender reasons for follow-up. Does a senator know when the concept of gender appeared?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u126	They don't have to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u127	They don't have to come. You see, it is. This judges itself when a man in his 30th place is raised for many women on top of the list, many women on top of the list. I wondered, too, which way. A senator and head of the General and Education Committee would agree with the decision by the Minister of Justice to assess the candidate in 7th not qualified enough to throw him out of the list of judicial committees and to raise the one in the 30th place. I don't know why. A senator is interested in what I'm asking her about, but hopefully she'll come up here and tell me how she feels about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u128	Mr. President. A new court, a new level of judgment, has activity for the coming year. As we have seen, 15 judges will serve in that court. It is important that the court and the judge receive a good outcome. In this regard, the trust of the public is more important than the support of Generalis in order to the judges. The right of the land and the judges to him must then live up to this trust by their actions and work to build confidence in it. A special judicial committee has evaluated candidates for the office of judges. In accordance with her standards, 33 candidates are eligible and the committee sent the highest. Minister of Justice for the list of 15 applicants whom she approved. We're gonna go for a second. Today, members of the council have received the highest suggestions. Minister of Justice on the 15 judicial matters that she proposes to be appointed judges at the National Court. Of the 15, there are 11 of those who were considered the most qualified members in their assessment, but four are replaced by the remaining 18 qualified candidates. Our job is to take a stand on the proposal, accept it, or refuse it. The decision to appoint judges at the New National Court is not without difficulty, nor is there any conflict between criticism and criticism. This was reflected in the discussions that have been held in the Assembly Hall today and also in the review of billing a legal adjustment of the courts a few weeks ago, including a few. the judicial committee and its activities, together with the permission of a minister, to disseminate the judicial committee for discussion. As to the Minister's permission, it says, by permission of the President: However, if the Council agrees with a secretary's proposal for a warrant to appoint another noted candidate, who will satisfy the judicial committee of all conditions of 2 and 3 mg. Twenty-one. fix these.How much more so that they don't need to be put in touch with the others. During discussions about this, many began to struggle. Councilmen are involved, along with signed. In particular, there was a gender issue mentioned, and it showed that each of them was a subject of gender. The discussion asked why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson we'll face the question. paritaprevir Assoldier Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir daughter of this question, by permission of the President: However, because these appropriate conditions are not absolute, a minister will be able to deal with those of another sex, since there is no mathematical precision. ... I ask the senator again: What if a minister brings up a list of minor matters that do not meet minimum criteria for the equal share of men and women? Will the senator join us and work to correct it? The result was immediate. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir said, by permission of the President: ▪ I'd like to reiterate the question. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson brought in earlier: If it turns out that the selection committee and Minister will fail in this context, then it will. A senator standing with us here on a talk chair and protesting an arrangement that does not respect the proportion of men and women at the order of this new court? It may be suggested that both of these were instigated. Councilmen considered that both the judicial hearing and the minister's proposal could be suspended if that was the case. I agree with that view. That argument, without hesitation, would have been put in a list of unacceptable sex halls. That would have been a group of reveries. I'm sure both of these two are out there. Councilmen would have, along with a number of other senators. Now the jury has brought in a list of 15 candidates, ten men and five women, but the Minister of Justice uses a legal warrant to provide a list of 11 proposed by the judicial committee, as well as four that the judicial committee had considered suitable but not set up in the 15 judicial committees. In this change, there will be eight men and seven women on the list of judges. It is a cause for great rejoicing and has great meaning for the new court and its work. That is very fitting in my view of equality, and I know that there are also a lot of other causes. Senators. In this context, with the permission of the president, I would like to quote Ragnhildur Helgadóttir, the head of law at the University of Reykjavík, where it says: ▪ It is important for the public to be able to mirror in courts, as is important for the public to be able to reflect in the general councilmen. In view of this, it is important that both genders have the equal place in judges, since society is expected to be appointed as men and women. The Minister of Justice has also noted that it is not appreciated by judicial experience in the terms of the judicial committee and the calculus used. That's a good argument for me. With all the above in mind, I will support the proposal as discussed here. Mr. President Finally, I would like to reiterate that the matters of the judges who will be appointed are all qualified for office and grammatical arguments behind their choice. Despite the fact that many members of Parliament have strong opinions about how this list came into existence, but the highest. Minister of Justice has declared that he takes full responsibility for that list, I would like to encourage you. Councilmen to make sure that such views do not affect those who are taking the new judgment and undermine their confidence in them. That is the worst possible conclusion to this case before the court, the judges, and especially to all the people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for quoting my words, they're still standing. However, there seems to be some misunderstanding. A senator of the meaning of those words. A smaller section of the General and Education Committee suggested a change in the proposal that a panel of qualifications for judging a judge would be assigned to consider the same procedure as the right and equal status of men and women to his assessment of an appropriate judge. Well, that's what happened to us. When it turns out it wasn't going to happen, both of us would. A senator to accompany us in that these views would be guaranteed. However, it is, and it has been shown in the highest language. Minister of Justice that this was not a reason for her view. There is now one of the things that sowed suspicions here in this hall that she had no mind for this, but now it uses it as a postponing explanation, that she looked to gender reasons for the evaluation. But when we see her taking a man from 30, bringing him up for a lot of women more qualified, I don't think that's credible, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask you why. A senator: Does he feel that this process is credible to him?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u130	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Somehow I feel like she's running from her own opinions on this matter. I have to say it exactly right now. The words we had there at the council, and that is exactly what followed when it was realized that people did not want to set specific equality laws on the job of the selection committee, and we declared it, and we were confident that a minister of justice would lead to an equal law. The minister also declared that he felt that they were in the same position as any other government in the country. I have not spoken of the fact that the minister specifically wore this to himself. I simply point to the fact that gender proportions on the list presented are correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u131	Mr. President. It has been repeated in the case of the executives in this case that the views as high as possible have been the case. A minister looked to her changing the selection committee's choice as a sex - based basis and wanted her to give more weight to the judges. In that light, I'd like to quote back to the highest degree. Minister of Justice to question why. paritaprevir Jón Steindór's Valdimarsson Valdim's right now. A senator asked her if there was no reason to look at equality in the choice of a judicial committee. It is revealed in the reply of the highest. Minister of Justice, by permission of the President: The President of the United States. Of course, it is vital that the order of the new court be successful in considering all kinds of views. It is very important that people with a wide range of backgrounds from the legal world, not just present courts or men who have done judicial work but also a wide variety of other legal jobs... So she says, with the permission of a president: ▪ I am not a spokesman for binding it into law not to choose an individual by sex rather than by choice. I have full faith that women and men alike meet all the appropriate conditions that would be appropriate to lay the basis for the appointment of judges. This made it appear that it was some particular point of view. And when a justice minister was fully able to change the jury's assessment rules before the evaluation but not afterward, why should we believe that this is some view that is relevant for the jury today? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u132	Mr. President. I thank you again. Senator. I was trying to point out that a person in question told a justice minister that equality laws apply in this area as well as others. That was a very important answer to me. That's the answer I was trying to get past the highest level. Minister. Of course, she answers, "Is there anything special in her eyes, and, fortunately, qualified women were as good as men who can take over this position? " That's the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u133	A respectable president. I'm going to put up a problem in these answers that I feel are part of the crystal discussion. If I were Minister and even. If I had sought some form of cohesion, I would consider the reaction very carefully. What will the person who is exposed to such accusations do? How would I react? Of course, a minister in such circumstances endeavored to show conclusive evidence that professional objective reasoning was in control of everything. Why is it taking the highest. The Minister of Justice does not see enough time for this, does she want to improve one opinion of an entire judicial committee? I guess. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson can answer that? So she ceases to take up the land's career, with the help of a greater part of the Generalis, possibly, by accusations, by mistrust in her own actions, and by a strong debate at the World Council on the Orders of Judges in the court. [[The president calls.]] Cute little dog. A senator in such a state?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u134	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't really know what to say. Of course, the minister will answer for himself, and I will not answer for her. I think it's best that the charges against politics in this case come from what happened. Councilmen here at the council. I don't know exactly what they're getting into. [[Just think about what you said.]] Perhaps it would be right for Ari Trausti to tell us what was wrong. Judicial matters are political choice. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u135	A respectable president. I was actually asking who. A senator would like this. But the other thing is that there are a lot more, much more, than members of this fine hall that oversees the political climate. You don't have to name any names or anything. This is what always comes up every time that government forces are in this way, whether there are professors at the university, judges in the courts, or whatever, because the minister of the law is not careful to do this in a legal, objective and professional way. I don't have to answer any of these good people, since I don't know one of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u136	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I'm fine, thank you. I see no other than the Minister did a good job on this matter. I'm fine with the way it's going to be, and I repeat that I think it's a very good group of judges around here. I think we should support the court and leave at least that. not the discussion of methodology and logic affects the court. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u137	A respectable president. Hv. A senator noted that if the list had appeared as if it was originally, 10:5, it would have rejected that list. That would probably have meant why. A senator would have agreed to a waiver in that matter, if that were the case. I wondered, " Is it reasonable to assume that these situations would arise to the point? ' A senator would have said yes to that list of deportations. Thereafter, it is natural for everyone to qualify. There's no disagreement about that. Hv. A senator will likely agree with me that in the case of two qualified individuals and one is better qualified than the other, the more qualified one is selected. If a person less qualified is chosen, he will likely have to explain why it is done, what makes him more suitable than the one approved of the original. [[The president calls.]] I wondered, " Is it not also appropriate? ' Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u138	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I thought I had simply said that if I had been that way, I hadn't supported him. There's nothing complicated about it. I think we have to realize that the jury's assessment is not reliable and not indistinguishable. I believe that a minister had the best interests of the entire court in mind when it proposed a change. They include, in my opinion, a very positive change in gender rates. I reiterate that all qualified men are very qualified to serve as judges, and many of those who reached below 15 people are judges with decades of experience in a local court. [[The president calls.]] I'll point it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u139	A respectable president. I don't have anything to do with the tools to match the sensory ratio. But there were other suggestions. In logical support of that move, it ended in the highest order. Minister of Justice to say we have to get above the Excels papers. I don't think that's enough logic. I believe there must come some word on the table that says why, not just that we must think outside the box. There may be social activities or other activities that the professional committee might use to evaluate someone more qualified, i.e. The committee we trust for the evaluation and order one over another. Even if everyone is qualified, however, one is more qualified than the other. You need to explain when an incompetent candidate is selected, why. [[The president calls.]] I'll agree with the logic that's being equal to the sex ratio, but with the others they're making, there's no support. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u140	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. The Evening Press, the jury's assessment, is a work of men like anything else. I hit e.g. by the time I saw this ◯Matrix, all 33 applicants have the same peak score in three joints. That is true of those who have never written judgment as well as those who have sat about making judgments for 30 years. I find that a very peculiar conclusion, so I don't say it strong, so I want to reiterate that the jury's evaluation is not infallible. The minister must have time to move. You can also ask, " Why does the judicial committee choose to have just 15? ' [[The president calls.]] Does this mean that the minister has already taken all his power out of space? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u141	A respectable president. I want to start thanking you. A speaker for the speech. Of course, it is very bad that we are in the place where we are now on this new judgment stage, that at the Council, we should be arguing whether it was right, whether it was done properly, whether a minister had to be more convincing or something. It is very bad for the court to start his work with this on his back, with the issue of doubting whether he has confidence in the general council. Hv. In his speech, a senator made quite a part of gender. Indeed, it is good to see that the balance in these names is quite equal. But there is something else that was very fundamental, as I have understood this matter, and that is experience in judging. Now, there's a man in seventh place, if I remember this correctly, which is replaced with a male to 30th place, and the one taken out has more judging experience than the one who's inserted. How does that explain why? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u142	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The request went into the course of a very bad one. These are the names or numbers for certain applicants, such as everyone knows who they are if they read the media, and he was simply wrong, but the comparison was off. A senator was wrong. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u143	A respectable president. I'm sorry if it has been. I wish I could. So a senator explained what was wrong with this and how the numbers I mentioned are different.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u144	Mr. President. I will not. The list of men and women listed in this series of lists, the seats mentioned, and what their experience in judging is all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u145	A respectable president. What happened here yesterday? It was known that there was a Minister's decision before the council. What was not known was how a minister's decision would be reasoned. Based on the explanation we have received, some very serious questions arise. The question is, if we ignore looking for answers, are we fulfilling the duty of our members of Congress? This is a very important point to keep in mind. We must not forget this vital role of the senators, we are looking for an answer, and we are looking for an explanation. Yesterday, the matter was to be completed under cover of night. It was scheduled, and it was due to be finished last night. In effect, it was to be done at night on the issue that we now discuss. No time for senators to prepare. There's no time for society and the media to look into it. The senators just seemed to trust a minister and forget their complete surveillance role in the use of Ministers' power. However, even though the senators trusted a minister, they need to ask whether they were blindly trusting in him. If the matter was to be resolved quickly tonight, how could members of the council like me take sides in the matter? Not all members of Congress had access to all data of the administrative and surveillance committee. The results had come sometime last night, and if we had to make a decision and push the button tonight, that vote would have been based on a completely uninformed decision. Happily, though, the discussion was given today. The picture has become clearer, but there are some things that need to be answered better. We're thinking about the interests of the public. The Court's decision is a defense mechanism for the abuse of the European Commission. The data we have seen, explaining why one person was selected over another, showing that it goes in several steps. They're going to choose a judge with a lot of judging experience. All right, and how are we gonna do that? That's a good reason. But when you look at those who were replaced by the list, there are members who have less experience in judging. All right. So, what other factors are we looking at? According to the Minister, legal experience is considered. Let's take a closer look. Still, there are some left on the list of 15 people who have less legal experience than those taken out. What's the next explanation? You can dig more and more to find it. The explanation then seems to be that we need to get a little ahead of the Excel documents. All right. Let's look at factors other than those presented in the Excel document as variables for the Minister's assessment. This explanation - the information that was new to the point of the assessment - has not been observed. So we can't say that it's because it's left-handed or because it's red-haired or whatever else it might be. The picture is missing to explain why one was put ahead of another. There could be an explanation, I'll say they exist, but we haven't got them. We're asking for that information. It is not enough for a minister to be correct. It must be possible to explain why a minister is right, that the decision is above all doubt, or at least Based on the final analysis, it is possible to determine whether or not any of the factors used are valid. Why is this matter serious? Not all Icelanders get into this room, but it's our agents here to protect their interests. The General sets up the law that the Commission must follow, and courts will then determine whether the law is being followed. If trust in the tribunal fails, the council can respond with distrust and a court of law can protect the city's rights to mismanagement. If trust is lacking in the Council, you can choose again. But if trust in the courts is gone, we can lose the kingdom, for by law the land will be inhabited. If the result of the decision cannot be trusted, it does not matter whether the application will depend on the law or against the law. If the European Parliament gets free cards from the Council to behave as it pleases, and there are no courts to defend citizens' rights, we simply aim toward autism. The General can still save the case. Instead of being a timer of time, we can arrange for the Committee and Minister to have time for all the explanation, all the facts that a minister believes to support his decision to select this 15 - man list, not any other 15 - man list. After that has been passed, the General is called together to one meeting, explain the matter, and settled. It's not complicated. The discussion is not to be kept in progress for the next few weeks, while the committee and minister work on these issues. It's a very easy way, it may well be that it doesn't give any conclusions, but talking about the matter longer makes us better informed when we vote on whether a normal language is behind a minister's list or not. Now, as the matter seems, there are things we struggle with, these emotional support, or post - service support, where the committee always receives more and more evidence. The committee gives support and says, "Is this the only one? Next time a minister gets here, we'll have more information. That means you suspect that there is only evidence to support you. It's a very difficult subject. There have been comments in the media about possible conflicting interests when considering the art. If we only follow the Code, then the Minister will say there, by permission of the President: ▪ Ministers avoid conflicts between public interests and financial or personal interests or their families, making sure that their work is not affected by personal contact. Personal relationships. That's what goes with the news that's come up with this. ▪ If he fails to prevent such conflicting interests, he will inform about them. All right. The question is, was this applied or was it not? Finally, I am interested in asking a particular conscience question, which is what really matters to us members of the council. Let's turn the parts around. If I had made such a decision, I would personally be in this role, how would you, members of the government, respond? If the answer is to throw it back into my head, which would really be distrust or dissuade, why are you defending this decision? In view of the information we have, can you honestly say that you members of the board would protect me in the same situation? I look forward to seeing it happen, to be honest. I can only see that if I were a Minister of Justice, I would hope that the maintenance would be in such a way that I would be demanded for more support. I'm going to hope that if I ever become in that situation, which I hope I won't be because I'm not interested in going to some chairs there, I'll take care of things better. The only proper way I can see right now is to withdraw this motion, that the Minister of Justice shall step aside, that another one may come in instead, a substitute will come and plead this matter, to finish this case, to bring back a new list as the General Assembly, and then a minister can come back as Minister of Justice. We have an example in the past, since a minister has more stubbornly set aside when it comes to possible conflicting interests. The consequences were not good, neither for trust in the Council nor for the institutions involved. I encourage us to think this through in a balanced way and to take this into consideration, rather than try to punch it through in such a short time. I don't think that's an unusual requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u146	A respectable president. I have not made it my habit to be a speaker or in other places to be particularly dramatic, talk about bad times or historical moments or what it is now. I'm just not really made that way. But I'm going to let myself get a little high in that direction now because it's a historic moment, we're changing the Icelandic legal system. V.E.G. A major step in the Icelandic legal system was spoken of by the health minister for decades. I agree with the highest. A health minister about it. I also agreed with the highest. A minister of health when he spoke in the public speaker's office earlier that it was very important that we do well. Me and the highest. Minister, or whatever. However, members of the board of directors do not draw the same conclusion. I have concluded that if it is important that there is a careful approach, it should be done in order to make the best of the work possible, even if it means a case of nonsense, not just in the council, but in the community everything, in the professionals, with the best knowledge of the matter, to be referred back to the Fatherhouses, to work better, to support itself more fully, and to the steps of greater carefulness. That's what I'm calling a good job. That's what I thought political people meant when they were elected into Congress against fighting amateurs against the challenge. I'm such a simple man that I thought it meant, in fact, that they wanted trouble. I agree with the highest, too. A health minister when he was a private senator in September last year spoke of himself and his party. By permission of the President: ▪ We have to turn away from the chaos and failures of the past few years. Backing agents and amateurs are not entitled to it. They need to be careful. This is called for more honesty in politics and more reasonableness in the community. [...] We have kept our place in better and more honest politics. We have had the courage to look to the future, to look at the long - term reasons. We've been good and we've stood firm [...] looking forward, understanding the state of the past few years, and we're not afraid to vote, for the future is bright... I agreed with the highest. The health minister of Feari Proppér said those words. I wish he'd agree with a member of the United States General. paritaprevir Proppér, when he says those words right now that we're taking this step here. I've had discussions with members of all classes around the house and listened to many of them in Pontu. It's amazing that I've heard a lot of people talk about, like that wanting to win the case better, wanting to win the case as well as possible, being some kind of political opinion, thus allowing the case into some political bitch. It's so far away. I want to protect the respect of the Generals. I'd even like to protect the government's respect, though I'm not part of it. I want to protect the respect of the new judgment level being due. Those who are putting the matter into political preparations are 32 members of the administrative body. They think it's more important to get it done now. If it had been up to them, they'd have finished it under the cover of the night. It's been done to put some sense into it. The administrative part, that it might be okay to discuss the matter in the light, but if they had been hired, they would have finished it overnight because it was so urgent. Yes, the law says it has to be done before June 1st. But it just so happens that we're the legislature. Changing the date of any decision is a small matter next to making a decision on an order of complete judgment. If there's someone who thinks that the government's somehow bringing politics into it, they've either been lied to or misunderstood. All we ask is professional work, that most people, preferably all, but it may be difficult, questions will be answered in advance, not trying to get support and answers afterwards, that we can continue the journey that has been settled at all its levels until the present peak. The government took power and decided to upset the case. It's not okay, Mr. Honorable President, to give such a big and important matter as this. It's just not okay. I'm not surprised that all the government groups are working this way, but I'm going to declare from the deepest of my heart the most sincere disappointments. Senators Brights of the Future who participate in this act that basically violates what the Party has claimed to be, good if not since the institution, at least before the last election. No one has been able to answer me what is wrong with giving the matter two weeks, let's say another, in an effort to work as professional as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u147	A respectable president. I'm going to start by saying that I'm quite pleased with the Minister of Justice. I am very pleased with the independence shown by the minister. I am very happy that the minister will shoulder her responsibility not to be necessarily fed. It is very important that a minister have courage and do such things. On the other hand, I think the minister is making a big mistake by driving this case through in the current way. I think if a minister had given it a little more time, those members of the council would have grown to think of being on the so-called green button. I think the Minister would have had more followers if the argument for this decision had been made a little better, fat a little, if you could say so. It is painful to start this new judgment stage in such a great dispute, as is now the case. I think a minister actually wanted one good thing, but he had a bottle on it and thought he could do it without convincing himself. That's what I miss, and that's why I can't help it in this way. As a result, the work effort is not good enough in this case. We're not supposed to do this kind of work. There's a game to add, that's what we know. What may be the most strange thing about all of this is that they classify and those generals who have spoken of the change and improvement in practice are those who are going to secure this matter, make sure it goes through here, citizens of Birt's future. If we google, if I may slag, Madam President, the word is "coach," and, for example, "tempt." ▪ Chairman of the Bjarts Plans for the future, and ◯ assav. A health minister named Otttr Proppé, suggests hundreds of cases in which that fine senator speaks of improving work. But where are they today? I think that a bright future has set world record now, at least in Europe's record, in betraying signals and changing my mind, in saying, "There's nothing to limit what I'm saying. I think it's a new world record, at least their European record today. This class, measuring just about 3% in polls, should naturally know its time of intelligence, but this does not, for its chairs are soft.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u148	Madam President. Today I mourn the state of justice in Iceland that is to be dishonored by this presumptuous act. It is important that we live in a state of justice where the neutrality and neutrality of judges are unconvinced, where there is no doubt that those who are the best qualified have been chosen in such an important position as courts and judges in our democracies society or that there should be no doubt about it. We've got several members of the board and the Supreme Court. Ministers come up and regret that there is no better way to settle this matter. Yet, they have taken only two days to explain and have flung at us some surprising explanation of why these people were selected rather than others. And there has been no proper evidence to support the appreciation of the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice. It's called a new process. And here we regret that there is no better reconciliation on this matter, that we, sitting in a position of government, understand this not only do we want to find out more clearly why there are any class distinctions to follow rather than professional judgements. They do not want to take the time to sit quietly and discuss with us, as so many have been so eager to do more at this assembly. No, this case is being forced through. It was to be forced through under the cover of the night yesterday, but instead we are allowed to discuss it today. I'm just very sorry about this, Madam President. Now we have the situation that we are putting here a whole new level of judgment as the former Supreme Court. A minister of justice was eager to win fully, and it would be very important for the government in Iceland to accept the agreement. I think it's so. Congress officials are quite pessimistic if they do not believe that it would have been possible for them to find a good way to land in this case that all members of Congress could have accepted. Instead, the case should be completed now, despite the fact that we have delay to July 1 in order to examine it further. Although there is good reason to examine it further. For what? Yes, because it's the highest. The minister of justice has made a twofold example in what she has said is the material for a good judge. When she discussed judges and evaluated their qualifications during discussions with courts and how these qualifications were to be respected, she did not care about gender. And she didn't care at all, or at least she didn't say that she was very interested, that there were too many who came in from the class that came in there. But now the limited information we have is that it was the viewpoint that governed this changing order. How should we trust that when nothing else has been presented to support this procedure, when everything else was said just a short time ago here? There's no way to trust that. It is shameful for this council to end with so much distrust in a state of justice in Iceland. That sucks, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u149	President. I've been introduced in a necklace a few seconds ago. I was in a councilroom. Apologize for that. What I think it is about, from the lower basic knowledge of the individual aspects of it, is that we are creating a level of judgment and the people being appointed as judges until they can no longer work because of an ark or death. Meanwhile, this shadow rests upon it, if we're going to order the judges for some sort of minister's handshake, based on views that may be a group of political, possibly feminist, possibly something else. This shadow will follow this in at least 30 years, provided those judges lead a normal life and I don't want to wish for these other people, another would be very unnatural, but this is a huge black spot if it's true, these indignities of some mistake I can't prove because I haven't been able to see the data of that material. I don't know if this was actually based on evidence. That's the fear. This fear can be removed by keeping the decision as long as possible in accord with the laws that we agreed to, at least, make peace with this level of judgment as much peace as it can result from the discussion that has been here. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u150	A respectable president. The existing legal rights minister's proposals regarding the entire new court order assigned to play a significant new role in the judicial system and establishes a turning point in the legal history. For this reason, it is fundamental and normal for careful action and the order of a judge to be above all doubt. As the U.S. Senate knows, legal rights ministers have a judicial committee of about 15 judges with a new national rights. Clearly, a minister's proposal is not in accordance with the judicial proposal that evaluated 15 candidates the most qualified and there gave the opinion of a minister. In his proposal, however, the minister sees access in the law to a change in court law. A minister's suggestion means that four of the 15 candidates considered fittest are dismissed and four other candidates are replaced by a judicial committee. The change from judicial hearing is significant, with more than one fourth of the judges involved. The minority does not agree that the Minister has the authority to disfellowship a judicial committee as long as the greater part of the Generalis agree with that proposal. However, there is no exception to the principle of the administrative law that has been discussed in the courts and the opinion of the emissary, based on the country for a long time, to appoint the most qualified member of the applicant's team. That rule guarantees public interest and meets the Constitution's equal rule. In particular, my comments refer to three: First, the minister would have needed more time in general logical support for each candidate. That would have been the best. A minister had to make a request, for it is unfortunate for a minister of argument to change according to what might be presented in the case. It is the Lawgiver's minimum requirement that all logic exist before Ministers decide their proposal for the Generals. V.E.G. A minister suggests that she wants to give more weight to judicial experience. I think there's a good argument in this case. If the highest. However, a minister makes one variable more important, so it needs to cover the entire applicant population rather than just change the group. Therefore, the order of candidates may change. In my opinion, it's a great weakness in the whole case. The law certainly tailored a minister with a narrow set of deadlines in relation to the appointment of judges. It is my opinion that both Ministers and Generals would have needed more time to resolve this matter, which is about the order of 15 new judges in the land rights, so that a minister could fully fulfill his field service and a council could meet later in the summer to complete the case. Second, I agree with a smaller part of the Commission and Control Committee that if a minister decides to dissociate a judicial committee, he should conduct his own investigation of the applicant's qualifications so that there can be no doubt that the most qualified individuals are appointed in accordance with the current principle of the law. Third, it seems that it is impossible to obtain sufficient expertise in the case. This is in line with the opinion of the visitors who came before the committee, who thought that it would require a further scientific opinion on whether the minister had adequately carried out the assessment of individual applications, in line with the viewpoint that she felt would best agree with the needs of the land's rights. As a result, much more time and access to data would have been needed. Then a board of administrations and monitoring committees would also have been dosed too short at the discretion of the case. Sadly, the majority of them were not willing to postpone the case in order to give a minister an opportunity to resolve the problems and ensure careful court treatment. I am convinced that parapolitic reconciliation had achieved, and of course, it was extremely unfortunate yesterday that the government and the majority wanted to drive the case through under cover of night. This is a fundamental matter. The court system is being changed, and the rest of it wanted to be discussed here after midnight. It's naturally completely unpleasant. The minority was ready to respond and that we would postpone this matter. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to say that there is a fundamental case in which the order of a new court is given an important role in the judicial system of the country and a turning point in the legal history. That's why it's so important to get a job done. Sadly, the General has not given enough time to break this matter so that we can make it right, for it truly is our mind in the lesser part to reach such an agreement that the confidence and confidence of a kingdom to the courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u151	Madam President. These are the next steps. Afterward, there will be a vote on the matter. First, there will be a vote on the deduction proposal of my part, I suggest that as many people vote with it, it only takes one to order a mind, and bring the case back to the minister. Then we will have more time because we do not need to enter this judgment until July 1. Then a minister has time to back this up so that he can successfully appoint the court without thinking that there are arbitrary decisions behind this order. Afterwards - this proposal will likely be made, for it is to be forced through the council, to do so in two days, on three days - will be elected as a vote made by the Minister of Justice for the Council of Justice on how to enter the court. If enough people get on the red button, there's just one more person that needs to be there, the case'll fall to Minister, it'll actually happen the same thing. We're just saying no, we haven't reasoned that yet, and the case is going back to Minister and we've got time until July 1 to finish the case. Very likely, that will not be the case, of course, because the officials have decided that they will be able to control it. Then it's the next step. We're gonna go for a second. Senator Birgitta Jónsdóttir has sent a request to the Commission and Control Committee to ask us to consider the decisions of the Minister of Justice and procedure in the implementation of a proposal to the Council for the Order of Justice in the National Court on the basis of the surveillance role that the Council has to deal with the Commission. That means we're looking into the decisions and procedures of a minister in this case. Then we'll have all the data on the table, and we'll talk to the whole issue, and we'll get to the bottom of this. At that time, court cases are likely to enter, they can be held at the same time. Eventually, we'll get to the bottom of this. True, the damage is done in such a way that these are irreversible commands. All of us are involved in this matter of supporting the minister of justice. That means distrust of our judgment system. Pirates have decided for themselves that they would like to offer a form of distrust. With regard to the balance or scope needed to make an informed decision for themselves, this study will support it, the information will come up on the table, so that other minority groups can determine whether they want to join in such a mistrusting declaration. We demand that this investigation be started immediately by a board of administrations and monitoring committees. We've already sent it, me and Birgitta, we're members of the Committee. One other member is needed to do so. We already sent this to the press. Following such an investigation or with such a study, when enough data is found, at some point others in the smaller section can make informed decisions as to whether they agree with the Pirates that they should express distrust for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u152	Madam President. This is a very important case, with 15 new judges scheduled for a new court order, a new court of law, a turning point in the legal history of the council. A key factor is that all legal arrangements with this order have begun beyond doubt. A minority at the Council has made comments to the Ministry's logic and does not believe that the evidence is based on evidence that research duties have been met. The experts who asked for an opinion on the subject felt that they did not have sufficient time to make a real assessment of these matters. That is why in the lesser part, we stated that the case would be postponed so that a minister and a council would have more time to ensure proper management. Therefore, we suggest here that the case will be referred back to the government for the same purpose. If my part's waive proposal goes down, we'll have left green against the case, because this is the total proposal. Our attitude does not include the individuals in question but, rather, the whole set of cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u153	President. As members of Porta's council, I challenged all members of the Parliament, especially those members of the Parliament who came in here with the advantage of trying to change their systems. I believe that they still want it in their heart, to follow their conscience, and to bring this matter to us from the lesser part back to the minister and the government so that the minister can ensure that the vision given by the minister should be accepted by those who need to take their place in this new level of judgment. I'd also like to say on behalf of Pirata that we will be on the red button when the whole case will be taken care of if it cannot be dismissed. It is not about individuals who are about to take their seat in this new level of judgment but about the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u154	Madam President. Now it is clear that a minister makes significant adjustments in the choice of a judicial committee in a new court. A lot of time for the review of the situation has been given to the General and Commission and the Commission. We haven't had a minister who's got enough reason for his case, which needs to be careful and beyond doubt. So we have suggested that the case be dismissed, postponed for a few weeks, so that a minister can work more on it and provide better information to the committee. In fact, there is no basis for judging those who have applied, but this is of great importance. This is an important new court. There's a lot at stake for safe courts. The Company will vote with a paradox.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u155	Madam President. Now we're voting, and we're having two attempts to settle this case here at the Council on Judge's Order, a proposal proposed by the Minister. In the first proposal, there is a vote on the proposal of a smaller section of the General and Education Committee, the memory of the Senate section that we are to refer a case to a minister so that it can work better. Everyone agrees that the couple of weeks a minister was given a little bit of time. The Senate had two days. It's not professional. So it's about time, on the other hand, to appoint this judge professionally, and we have time to July 1st, or possible dictatorial decrees that undermine the justice system of the country. It's two attempts. In the first attempt to refer this to the minister, to be on green there, in the second motion to reject the suggestion of the greater part of the Council and Minister, thus referring the case to the minister. Everyone needs to be on red.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u156	V.E.G. President. We first vote on the off-limit proposal of a smaller part of the management and monitoring committee. A majority of the management and monitoring committees felt that the matter was being treated by the Committee that it would give reasons for taking a stand. The major part is the belief of an explanation. The Minister of Justice is responsible for the 15 individuals who are required to order national rights to be sufficiently reasoned and prepared. As a result, we are not able to accept the form of a postponement proposal and feel that the delay in the case would not have been a failure to resolve the issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u157	A respectable president. We have two attempts to dismiss the case, which is an untrusted proposal for this practice, and on the other hand, to say no to the list and then to a minister. It is not my will to cast doubt on a new level of judgment. That responsibility totally falls upon a minister for not rationalizing his decision and the government for requiring prompt treatment. It is on the table a very practical suggestion to make peace. The possibility that the council will have the opportunity to look into the matter further and sign a minister's choice so that the motion beyond doubt must be more important than the doubt that goes to the new level. Hence, it is impossible to ignore the opportunity to do better, and it cannot help but lead to a better conclusion. At least this can lead to a worse conclusion than we are now facing. You are responsible for that decision, why. A senator, and your highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u158	A respectable president. In the short term since the Commission and the Commission has had to review the case, it is our opinion in the minority that there has been insufficient support on the part of the Minister, and therefore we have put emphasis on our work to suggest that we postpone these payments and refer the case to the Minister. With the waiver's motion, we refer the case to the minister, ready to come back in here after two or three weeks, and to resolve the case after our assessment, we would have provided sufficient support. Of course, we candidates support the contraband proposal. On the other hand, if it goes and the proposal for the total number of new judges at this critical rate comes to pass, we will not vote in the light of our belief that it would have been more reasonable to get sufficient evidence for that list so that we could all take our stand on it. We simply don't think we can do it at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u159	Madam President. We haven't asked much in this process. All we've been asking for is argument. We have just asked for a little more information about the way this decision was made. All we've asked is for us to understand what was done so that we could naturally take an informed stand. That's all we've been asking for. But instead, for some reason, it is to try to push it through without the discussion, without having them prove to be satisfactory. If there is any doubt that the evidence is sufficient, if there is any doubt that this is a good process, if there is any doubt that there is confidence in the court in the fact that this will be done, we must say no, then all of us must say no, or at least refer to the matter, because contrast would really be the best possible conclusion. By doing so, we will return to the matter later and will be able to do so properly and get sound reasoning. [[The president calls.]] That's the right conclusion. Let's turn this over, Madam President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u160	President. We vote for either old Iceland or new Iceland. The old system or new system. This was the first impression that a plant coming out of the soil that many have had to endure after a collapse because of severe hardships, difficulties, and uncertainty. Let's vote for old Iceland or new Iceland. I hope that the simple wish, the simple requirement, that we get to present this important issue that turns about no less than to be credible in the court, that it will receive the proper treatment that makes everyone feel like they can trust this new level of judgment. The responsibility is great, and the responsibility is yours, my dear senators. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u161	Madam President. I cut it down in the words of a man. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir said in one sentence that there was a minister here to choose a judge acceptable to her, but then she said in her next sentence that Pirata's decision was not about these particular people. I don't know why. Congressmen feel that they are covering some contradictions in those words, but I think so. When one mentions that certain judges are acceptable ministers, in some cases they might bring reproach on their future jobs. [[Up front.]] So I'd see what it is. A senator would want to revise this former part of his declaration. Otherwise, I have explained in my speech that this power and responsibility lie with the minister and that it is normal to be placed there. I don't think it's normal for the council to interfere with this decision. So I'll vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u162	Madam President. We're really going to allow the highest. Minister to set this example? That a minister can do exactly what she likes to do contrary to the professional judgment of an economist without sufficient logic in the time pressure and great opposition of the council, that it is driven through by a government with less votes behind him. This is an unnatural political interference with the appointment of judges. I say, of course, let's bring this matter back to the minister, give her time to do it better, get the information we need to make an informed decision. If there's ever a reason to actually vote for your own convictions, it's now. This vote doesn't have any business with the group line. In order to protect the interests of the common people, we were separated from the independence party. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u163	A respectable president. There is one thing that bothers me in this matter beyond what has occurred before. If we were now here May 1st, would we use the same argument that the case has already received adequate court treatment and requires a vote here? Can you honestly say, honestly, that you would not use an extra month to get it done better? You see, we have one extra month to get it over with. Please explain if you would not be in the situation of May 1 that you would allow the case to live and work better until June 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u164	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has been well - aware of our stand in the left green. I come up here to express a tremendous and sincere disappointment in this matter. I thought a number of new senators who joined me at a council after election would translate new ones and change their practices. This is an extremely important matter. It is vital that we make peace. If there is just one question to answer a better case, then there is a working hand to improve the treatment. How tragic it is that the greater part is going to go into this new judgment stage that will change so much into conflict and in the shadow of the conflict and political power of the greater part, all in order to avoid giving the matter more time, however, time that experts have said may be needed to consider the matter in the most professional way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u165	Madam President. How shocking it is that in such circumstances a new land should begin its work! It is by no means by the Minister who has taken a case here during the last term. That minister wanted to put forth great effort to make the matter clear. That's no longer available. This is to be forced through which there is no need to be done and enough time is needed to improve. There's little dignity over this, let alone a bright future. We're here to protect the courts. We're here to increase confidence in the courts. This we do not do by offering in this way and by means of the trial that a minister uses. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President, but this case cannot be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u166	Madam President. We have here the opportunity to return this order to the minister so that the dark cloud now rests upon the neutrality of the courts and, in fact, the whole court may be relieved if it is divided. My dear boy. Senators. Dearest. Ministers. Let's give the court the benefit of the doubt. Let's give it time. Let's vote with our conscience. I want a judge to be well chosen. I want that state to be trusted. I ask you to vote with your conscience and say yes to this contraband that we may have a better time to settle this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u167	Madam President. I say again, we're just asking for some good reasoning. What is different with this and many of the matters that we have handled during this council this spring is that when the mistake is made in the matter, nothing can be fixed in the autumn. They can't be fixed even the next spring. This is a mistake, if it is now made, it takes confidence in the level of judgment for decades. We don't know how many decades, but reality is that this is an irreversible decision. We have to keep that in mind. I hope someone has the courage to be the one who says, "Let's stop." Let's move this out of the way. Let's get some more reasoning. Let's get it done, because it's right. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u168	Madam President. All of us want proper trust in the courts of our country. I don't think there's anyone in here who doesn't want proper confidence in the courts of the country. This is shown in the government covenant. No doubt this is stated in the Declaration of Each Class. All the people of the country want it, no matter where they live, no matter what categories they choose, we want to have legitimate confidence in our judiciary system, that's groundwork. What we now face is a choice. We have two opportunities to refer the case to the minister again. It'll only fall into the custody of a minister. She's better off working. It can bring it back to the council by July 1. First, by voting on green in the first motion, by referring it to a minister, instead of voting for red against accepting a minister's proposal, using the denial of the authority, defending himself against an arbitrary decision. If this is not done, then there is no doubt that a minister has done arbitrarily in this matter. [[The president calls.]] Then there is no legitimate trust in the courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u169	Madam President. It is important that the trust of a judge's command to a new court order, the land's rights. All judicial procedures must be carefully and above all doubt established, and it should be shown that a minister has carried out his research duty in the adjustment of the judicial proposal and the Minister's work is per administration. There is no doubt about it. The role of the Generals is important, and members of the Parliament must not fail to carry out their duties. A general council is placed in a high - time pressure, which is a great disrespect for this big case. So in the opposition to the government, we suggest that the case be dismissed and done better by the minister so that the matter is well thought-out. It would be unfortunate to resolve this issue in a large way. This leads to distrust in the General Assembly, the courts, and the administrations of the country. Let's give this matter more time and more time for a careful trial. I think the whole body of Congress should unite on giving Ministers a chance to work better than it has been done to this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u170	A respectable president. Old Iceland and new Iceland. An excellent assessment of qualified men and five women. Certainly on the beat to the old Iceland. The Minister of Justice suggests seven women, eight men, and I rejoice, and I wonder that others don't do it here, the opposition doesn't do it here. [[Up front.]] The correct sense of land rights doesn't cost us trust. It earns our trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u171	Madam President. The arrangement set out by the General on a new court order was not designed to allow a minister, no matter how remarkable, to exercise the power to select people in judicial matters, those that are acceptable to him at any time. Hence, a special judicial committee was set up to evaluate the factors that are believed to have to be met. Therefore, the General will not be able to support the unshavenly psychiatric decision made by the minister who has no vision of a future or a system change, but a return to the past. What a disappointment it would be if members of the council who claim to announce new business were involved in this ancient process! Let's just say no, and let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u172	Madam President. First, the highest. Minister Björt Ólafsdóttir, speaks of the importance of being properly ordered according to gender proportions, I would like to state that among those whom the Minister does not divide out of the fifteen groups there are at least two with no experience in judging. And among those that the Minister does not move up to 15 people, the applicant with 27 years of experience is a local judge. This is not beyond doubt. That is what we are seeking, that this decision will be above all doubt. This is about our state of justice. We need to protect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u173	Madam President. It's incredibly sad to see, when I'm sitting here for the first time, that old Iceland is still in horse health. It now gains weight like a log on a piece of purple in the shelter of so - called reform groups, the bright future and the restoration. It is best to see that what is called corruption everywhere else is called a minister's decision to try to cover up the lip. It is unacceptable to accept this practice. We need to bring this back. Let's get this out of the way. Let's get a professional assessment, get some logical support, and do it properly. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u174	Madam President. I say yes to give the Minister more weight. By saying yes, this ball goes back to the minister. Give her time to reason better. Then just come back to us before July 1st. It's legal. Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u175	Madam President. Justice must not be merely carried out, it must seem to be carried out. As the lord and judge British Gordon Hewart made such memorable remarks in famous British language. That's what this is all about. Justice must also appear to be carried out. The neutrality of the courts must be above all doubt. We must be able to trust our legal rights. We must be able to take time to improve the work of this case, to strengthen our confidence in the justice system in the land as this government has declared that it wants to do. We must respect our legal system more than that. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u176	President. It appears that this recommendation for my part will be dropped. I'd like to read to you something that I found on the Facebook website of a former Parliament member, Páll Valur Björnsson's son, in which he referred to a report on the World Council of Research, where a former editor of the Morning Press for many decades says: There's no prince's finger, there's no ideals, there's nothing. It's just opportunism, power fight. We still have the opportunity to show that we have a prince's hand, that we have ideal idealities, that we are not opportunities, and we are not here for a masked conflict of power. We still have the opportunity to do so. But it seems to me that old Iceland wins. Yippee. This sucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u177	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u178	I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u179	Madam President. I hope this new presentation of corruption here in this house gives people the courage to come here to the East and protest this. Because we need to get rid of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u180	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u182	V.E.G. President. Here are 15 recommendations made by the Justice Department on Individuality to appoint judges on a new National Court. The majority of the administration and monitoring committees made a suggestion in their resolution that the Council confirmed the proposal of Justice by this vote. This we do on the basis of our belief that behind the proposals of the Minister of Justice, there are adequate practices and objective views in the face of the motion and emphasis that a minister of justice stresses on his proposal. I believe this is an historic moment. I would have chosen it to be in greater peace and harmony than this, but it is, nevertheless, a historic time when the National Court is appointed in the sort of way expected here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u183	A respectable president. Yes, it is now a turning point at the Council. Never before has the assembly arrived at the order of a judge. Never before have so many judges been appointed at once, but the office of 15 judges was published for application on February 10th. I was so happy and grateful to see that so many offered to do difficult work and so many of them were well - off. I have proposed a recommendation to the Council for more than 15 individuals due to the order of a judge at the National Court. These are individuals with different backgrounds, but all have a common need to have the theoretical knowledge required by this careful office. I am deeply grateful, too, for my hard work. A board of directors and board of directors has set aside time to discuss the matter at this busy time of the council, as well as all members of the council who made an extra day at the end of the council to discuss these matters. I would also like to thank the police and the Justice Society and other stakeholders who are interested in this matter for taking the time to give time. The management and monitoring committee considered on short notice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u184	Madam President. There is no debate about the right minister to compromise the opinion of the jury, for it will receive a greater portion of the Generals' vote. A minister, though, needs to back up his decision in particular, but she has not. She has to do her research duties and, for example, she would have had her own. The list of judicial hearings had to be given to those taken out of court. It is the responsibility of the body of Congress to protect its dignity and to show the new court due respect. The union can't accept these tactics, and we'll say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u185	Dear Icelanders, state of Congress. All judges on this list are qualified. Keep that in mind. This is not to say that there is no lack of confidence in the court itself. There'll be people there. There's a lack of confidence in government work. May the government be responsible solely for this treatment and how badly it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u186	Madam President. There is a lot in the case; we have two days to do this while the Minister had two weeks, it is being promoted, how this was ordered, there are so many indications and reasons to believe that these are political orders, that a minister's proposal is of political origin. Now we'll see it in this vote, we saw it earlier, about throwing cases to the Minister of Justice, it was rejected, rejected from the greater part, totally contrary to the generals. Everyone sees it's political there, of course. Government officials have not been given the opportunity to study this matter well enough to make informed decisions about it, that is clear. And now the government will no doubt agree to the proposals of a minister and all the people of the country will see, and everyone in this room will also see that it is a political decision. It undermines the legitimate confidence in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u187	President. I've been found in the discussions that have been taking place here today notablely, it seems, that what we're doing seems to be of little value to the executives. I don't think it's a big deal because this government thing didn't want to give the United States a chance to do a thorough review and get a thorough review from the highest level. A minister in order to fulfill our important role, which is to be defensive. Indeed, the minister has the power to make decisions. But the denial power is here. That's what we're doing. And we have responsibility. We were not present to be responsible. And it is worth keeping in mind that the Piratars do not view and do not believe whether these judges are qualified or not, and we trust the judicial committee perfectly to appreciate it. But I think it's very important to remember that the decision we're here to make is the same thing as if we were changing the constitution, important details of the constitution. [[The president calls.]] Keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u188	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, is very much concerned with his clear statement that he believes that all of those involved would be suitable, without interference. I think it's important that things are spoken that way. Of course, it's since what we're voting on, whether we believe this list of judges is such that here there should be judges at a new national court. I understand that there is hope that the senator will change his opinion, to vote against that list. Then we may just disagree on how we use our authority here. But I just wanted to thank him very much for those very clear words. I've ever talked about an arrangement with North American government executives whether it would be appropriate for the General to vote for a judge's order in the way we do here. Their counsel was not that way. I hope this is a historic moment, but a historical moment in a way that will not be repeated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u189	President. In 2010, when we were discussing these laws at the General Assembly and the frameworks that are being agreed to, this turn, this final point, a group of the then motions proposed a change. The suggestion was that if a minister changed the motion of a judicial committee, an advisory committee, two thirds of the council would need to agree with it. What a blessing it would be if we had agreed to the adjustment proposal, for that is so that in the lesser part we have actually experienced that we have not received an adequate explanation. The minister's explanation - there was an inconsistencies between the minister's comments to the committee. We asked for it in writing and didn't get it. So, you people who are happy for a great phase, please do so well. But I'm worried about the state of justice. [[The president calls.]] For this matter is in doubt with the minister's actions. If she had allowed us to review this better, we would have gained much better understanding of the matter. It's just that way. The responsibility is yours, most of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u190	A respectable president. I come up here for a word. paritaprevir Paulels Bartoszeks about what we're voting for. As far as I'm concerned, this is where we're voting on whether or not there was a professional practice. That's my opinion. Here we go. paritaprevir Birgir an Ármannsson, he says that he had preferred more peace. How, then, would it have been to negotiate a little more? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Should we go over what it's all about? It's not about names on a list. They're asking for more time. Ask for a better job. More logic. It is a political decision to violate the peace that has so far existed regarding the establishment of the land's rights. It is the greater political decision to take advantage of their political force in this room to avoid these, of course, and of normal demands. Who can object to making a success of speech? What is the opposite of not working hard enough? [[The president calls.]] What is a parallel to not getting a job done properly? Isn't it willing?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u191	Madam President. We vote for an order of 15 judges at a new court order, U.S. National Court. The order presented by the Minister of Justice is bound up with suspicion and distrust. Because she herself, the highest. Minister, and no one else, without adequate reason, decided to push qualified people off the list of the jury, without being able to give us members of the council enough professional explanation. This is certainly not in the spirit of the preparatory compromises introduced at the National Court. So I will violate the matter and the whole motion and say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u192	A respectable president. There's no question about that, and most people seem to agree on that at the most. The Minister of Justice has the legal right to make this suggestion. If she finds the support of a greater part of the council, it will be legal. There is nothing more to see and hear here than that more of the council supports this proposal. No scientific evidence can be made that the 15 were the most qualified for the future. But I trust that the minister responsible for the case will choose as best he can. I don't have a basis to judge whether the Minister did as well as possible. It may be that if we had looked at it a little longer here at the council, people might have come closer to claiming, but they could never have made a proper claim. Therefore, I have no basis for opposing this proposal, and neither to support it, so I will not vote for it, but I will wish new judges and courts all success in their jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u193	Madam President. I say no to this, not because I don't trust such individuals. I say no to this because I don't trust the process and I don't trust it. Minister of Justice. When we're making decisions about this sort of thing, it's gotta be cool. The Senate must be able to get along well. How we have been doing this today and in these last days have brought reproach not only on this new court but also on the council and on the government. We'll have to dig ourselves out of that mudhole. It's obviously not going to happen today. I say no because it's the right thing to do, because something that might otherwise have been a very good process has been destroyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u194	A respectable president. For the council, there is a proposal of about 15 judges. I don't think it would be appropriate for members of Congress who make laws to be part of each court's ship as an example of that law. I don't think it goes according to this conclusion. So I agree with what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek when... Could I have peace to account for my vote? So I agree with what. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, when I say, "I hope this is the last time the council shares it in this way. " I consider the Minister of Justice to have the ultimate responsibility in the case, and I believe the proposal before the council is well - thought and reasoned. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u195	Madam President. Hv. Government officials have come up here and described this as a historic day. Historical, yes, tragic, too. I feel that this is a sad moment for this meeting, which could not take the time to work this case well and at peace, as has always been resolved on this new level of judgment. So that we could all walk out of this house and into the summer. I'm really sorry, and I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u196	A respectable president. I'm glad there's a court order here at the National Court. National Court will touch the whole community, especially those who have to consult the legal courts and those who operate in the judicial system. I'm especially glad, though, that the Ministers present a list of qualified individuals of both genders. We're seeing very capable women as well as men in the motion of a minister. And that makes me happy. All highly qualified individuals. No question, it is a big step towards the equal status of the sexes that so many women go to court. I'd like to see more people celebrate. This list of 15 people is made up of experienced lawyers, who are worthy of our full trust. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u197	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Björn of Gunnarsson's Leví that the representatives here voted for being all qualified to perform these vital tasks. The judicial committee also provided a list of 15 people, all qualified for important work. There are eight males and seven women on the other list. There are ten men and five women on the other list. It's an old Iceland. I say, a list of qualified men who have seven women must be better. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u198	Madam President. It seems there's a bad taste in the mouth of some senators at Reunion who try to excuse it in the back and because they don't really want it in here, but they're still paying it votes and never going to do it again if it does. The laws were changed in 2010 to prevent ministers from assigning political and professional judgements to judges, even though they used to do so. Now it's the highest. In effect, a minister of justice is going in the opposite direction, as we have seen here, although it certainly has the authority to do so. It's not about the people here, it's not about seven men and five women or a god know what, it's about how it's handled here within Congress. And stop trying to turn this into something completely different. [[Up front.]] The review of the section focuses on how the treatment has been handled here within the council, not on whether the members of the board have been selected on the list of ministers more qualified or not, but on the case. [[The president calls.]] We haven't had any data to prove it so conclusively, and the trial is not over. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u199	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u200	The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u201	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. That would have been, I think, no one would have said anything if the Minister's list had just brought up seven women and eight men if there hadn't been more changes and the changes that they are now were illogical. It's about the changes being illogical. It would have been no problem to reason on the basis of changes in the range of gender ratios. No problem. But there are more changes than that. Keep that in mind. The Senator says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u202	A respectable president. It is often said that the Council does not receive respect and trust. I just don't think it's weird after sitting here in this room today. Such practices are completely unacceptable in modern society. And getting ready to dress like that is an all - out suit and is simply offensive to women. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Bringing some men up and down on a list is not equal. If it had only been moving women, we could have taken that equal friendship. But no, there are other changes. And hiding behind this is simply insulting to all thinking people. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u203	Madam President. Since 1920, four women have been appointed Supreme Court judges in Iceland. Four women, 97 years. Because Old Iceland has a lot of films. This picture does not belong to my share on the platform today. Let's leave it alone. But we're going to keep her in line. A new judgment level, U.S. National Court, raised hopes for change in these matters because it matters. We now vote for a list, a variety of lists, with 15 qualified individuals prior to an audition. Also, the list that has been relatively rare in the last 100 years has to include an equal sex ratio. Eligible individuals, equally appropriate sex ratio. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u204	Madam President. In this certainly historical order of seven women and eight men in a new court, it is important that the right to provide the food is at the minister's office. The General Assembly is here on a surveillance role in providing a minister with all the legal requirements made for her evaluation and support. A minister has made clear his evaluation and support of the Senate's administrative and monitoring committee, both general and specific. I base my stand on that argument for the Minister. I think he's adequate. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u205	Madam President. Then it's just the image of light, it's from class lines. It's the big boss thing. The management section wants to refer the case to the minister so we can have time. The management part wants to accept it this way, by class lines. These are political orders. Well, it's quite clear then. All the people of the land are aware of this. Such political orders are a legitimate basis for confidence in the judicial system. They will. And, of course, it sits in people's stomachs. You might think about it when you try to push that uncomfortable feeling away, and you'll have to do it, it's not just the politicians, it's a lot of people who don't become politicians and have to push it out. Then you can go to your friends and throw them between you and laugh at this. There are various ways to turn away unpleasant emotions when you know that you have been sacrificing legitimate confidence in the courts for political interests, for government work. That's what many people here have done and know they have. [[The president calls.]] I say no. I say let's bring this up to the minister and minister again. We have time to July 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u206	V.E.G. President. I'm here explaining my vote and my conviction that this is a good list, and better than the top. The minister was originally given, for this list did not meet the necessary viewpoint on sexual equality. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice has said that it feels that equality is to be included in this matter. I respect the position, as well as the belief that a judge's experience should outweigh the original list of judges. The minister's got his hands on you. That's where I agree with the highest. Minister. When I'm at the highest. The minister received a proposal from a judicial committee that could not show these views, but she sent that list back and reimbursed. The secretary received the list unchanged, so he was insufficient back. As a result, the highest decision was made. Ministers to take advantage of the legal scope it has to make needed adjustments. The changes made by the minister result in the art facing both, criteria for sexual equality, and viewpoints about judicial experience, as well as that of all the judges. [[The president calls.]] It's good work. That's right, that's right. That's right, that's right. Ministers have offered is good, and I'll take it. According to my best conviction and conscience. So I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u207	Madam President. A minority at the Council proposed a grammatical argument that there had to be a more subtle procedure and that the Council's case would have required more time. This evidence was supported by the experts whom a board of administrations and monitoring committee called to assist in evaluating these instruments. But on the basis of the memory and the experts, the more part chose not to listen. I believe, Madam President, the Council is to be governed by intelligence, not by death. It's not my feeling that the Council was in control of our intelligence today. That's why I say no to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u208	A respectable president. This case is just not ready. I am absolutely certain that the majority of the senators who are here to vote have been able to study this matter sufficiently. That's why the smaller part is suggesting we don't go on vacation immediately, we have plenty of time. I just don't understand why the government is not ready to do that. To put this in this gender outfit: I think everyone in this room is very happy that the art is so set. I just don't understand that men aren't ready to give this any more time. That's why I can't vote with this case and I don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u209	Madam President. I'm gonna start off with a rather unconventional note in the President's conference board. Mrs. President has been doing good and active work all winter, so we must celebrate. According to that, my presence ends here today, so I wish you good luck and thank you for the fish. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u210	Honorable generals. The work of this legislature is about to end. It was in unusual circumstances on December 6, but it had not been for some 40 years that after the General elections were completed without the support of the majority of cooperation and a new government. Thus, the ceremony during the month of Christmas was somewhat different for us who had been sitting here before. Then, the ability of a new assembly to cooperate with one another was tested by a large and complex task to perform parapolitic work on the budget of 2017. This was a valuable time that I think was good for the Council, and all of us can be proud of the tactics shown by the council under these circumstances. At the beginning of this council, no more new members of Congress have taken their place, and never before had so many women elected to the Generals. Human experience is the least from the start of measurements, an average of about four years. A major renewal since the 2007 General election has taken place in the council. No doubt there is a difference of opinion as to whether such scars are good or bad, but in a few local Parliaments it is certain that such changes have occurred in as short a time as here. We were faced with the fact that there had never been so many members of Congress before, which made it harder for all to fit into the limited facilities of the council. Thus, it is significant that during 2020 a new building is being put into use that will improve the facilities of the general council and increase the flexibility of housing as groups grow or decrease, become or disappear, and result in significant practicality in the operation of the General Assembly. There will be no debate that the most important issues of this council have been the financial agenda for 2018/22022. The budget has called for a change in budgets, both in councils and at the General Assembly. Clearly, the whole process will improve, both in preparation for the development of financial programmes in the Council and in the handling of the matter at the council. I'm celebrating the statement. Budget and economic secretary this week to speed up financial programmes so that more time is needed for the Senate coverage. Here at the Council of the Parliament, the leadership of the Parliament needs to review the experience of a financial programme study committee. At the same time, I firmly believe that services to the council committees need to be funded and that members of the Parliament will be given the necessary assistance to make an independent assessment of various aspects of the programme. In order for that to happen, the Generals will need to make more money. We also need to reevaluate the General Work Programme on the budget. This year's experience shows that she needs to be given more space in the council's work ethic. On the other hand, it is also clear that financial treatment at the autumn Summit should be able to grow, and it should even be possible to produce money until it has been done. This would greatly improve all parties who have to organise their activities on the basis of each year's budget. Nice senators. There has been no record of any member of the Parliament that it has been a great deal of effort for the president to complete his contract in accordance with the General Work Programme. Sadly, most of the cases have failed. The General Programme is to be taken seriously. On this point we are to unite because it is important that all members of the council can rely on it as a fundamental step so that members of the Parliament can organize their involvement in the political work required outside the council. An important factor in such success is that the government takes seriously the Council's work programme and ensures that it can come in early enough time to give the council enough time to discuss it. An important factor to this end is that the president introduces a plan in a thorough manner to the government and calls for cooperation with it on this important aspect of the council. At the end of the council, I'd like to thank all members of the council for their cooperation. Though it is normal for members of Parliament to differ, the Council has produced a fine spirit. I give special thanks to vice presidents for their excellent cooperation with the council board, as well as to the heads of the classes and members of Congress for a very good cooperation. I thank the Office managers and the staff of the Generals for their assistance, and I thank you for a great job, and I thank you for your complete cooperation. I wish the out-of-town people a nice trip and a happy return home, expecting that we will all meet at a new assembly in September.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u211	Dear President. I would like to thank the president on behalf of us all for the cooperation at this council and the kind words to us. The president of the Generals, Konráðsdóttir, Bjoddgsdótttir, has shown that she is capable of being president of all members of the council. She has been able to maintain discipline and to show reasonableness toward all of us, even though the zeal of the senators and ministers was just as intense during this council as others. This assembly has been unique. It is uncommon for so many to represent at the General Assembly, which, of course, means an increasing misunderstanding that could easily have gotten out of control if a president here might not be sitting here listening, respond fairly if this is the case, and have the same time iron discipline if there is a need for all of us and also the executive authority that is not necessarily needed. It is also invaluable to sense and feel that the president is ready to enter the Assembly Hall another kind of attitude and tactics and bring us closer to the times in which we live and are moved. The President has shown us members of Congress that it has ambition and a vision of how the Council can better carry out its legal function and I don't doubt that all members from where they come from will support the president in increasing expertise in the house and support of councils to be better employed for land and nation. The president of the General Assembly, Konráðsdóttir Bjodvisdótttir, is the youngest president of the Republic of Germany. The chairman has been able to show understanding of the way he does things in the opposite direction to members of Congress, especially those in the lesser part if he or she is being treated unfairly and inconspicuously. There is little that moves members of the Parliament to become as weary in righteous indignation and unreasonable in delicate matters. There have not been nearly as many failures during this council as often as before, simply because of failure to act unfairly or mistakenly, rather than allow the righteous anger to burn up in a meeting government in front of everyone's eyes as best to say, it is probably the most boring part of the Albolvement that often brings little results if you do not try to unwind it before it goes off. The age of the general president has made this president a bridge from generation to generation, something of great importance. But now, for all members of Congress, I would like to give best greetings to the president and her family. I also thank the secretary - general of the Generals and all other staff of the Generals for their excellent and excellent work, willingly providing assistance, on any occasion, for the sake of our zeal, often in putting our affairs first. I want you to live well, Mr. President. I ask senators to say my words to the president by getting out of their seats, by saying hello to her family, and by thanking the staff. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u212	Thank you. 3.m. Smoke. n., Birgitta Jónsdóttir, for warm words and good wishes to me and my family and my bad. Congress officials for accepting that word by rising from their seats. I repeat my thanks and wishes to do so. All members of the Parliament and staff of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-79.u213	Iceland's number tells: That, according to the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to postpone the General Assembly of 146, from 31 May 2017 or later, if necessary, to September 12 to 2017. I'm in Reykjavík on May 29, 2017. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Bjarni Benediktsson. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this authority and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that the Council is postponed by the 146th legis. I wish. All council members, officers of the council, as well as citizens of the country, happy summer days.
