ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u1	The next week will be referred to as a work schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u2	The President has received the following announcement, dated March 6, 2017, from Congress on personality changes in the committees of the Parliament, as per Article 16. Parliamentary convention: Gunnar Hrafn Jónsson takes the seat of Einar Brynjólfsson's son as head of the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u3	Borist has a letter from the 3rd. Sólvest, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and the 10th. We're out of here. " Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Asvarsdóttir that they cannot attend next week. So today, at the General Assembly, which was for them, Sara Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir, and Andri Þór Sturluson. The letter of Sara Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir and Andri, the son of ÞórSturluson has already been investigated and approved, but they have not previously taken their place in the General Assembly, thus signing their vows to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u4	Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir and Andri Þór Sturluson have signed their vows to the Constitution and are welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u5	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 228, traffic-related charges, from Lára Arnardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u6	Madam President. I'd like to call attention to the strange play of a transport minister who came out among the citizens of the country during the last weekend of his presentation of transport procedures. This amazed many members of Parliament and has actually spared over the inhabitants of the country, whether east or west. During the wintertime, we are more likely to talk about depravity than are the roads that are corrupt in much of the year. If it's not snow, it's ancient. We're not talking about renewing road wear. We're not talking about changing bridges, for the roads of ten miles are single roads. Madam President. It is serious if the council is not able to bring about a change in its own policy of transportation. A minister has given him his recent authority. Such practices will not be peacemakers. [[The president calls.]] It is time for the council to act. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u7	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Goddess of Brjánsson. It is completely unsurpassed when the Council has not only agreed with the transport programme but, rather, the General Assembly has agreed on how to establish the priority for transport, that the European Commission is entitled to take action against the Generals' will in this way and in the Supreme Court. A government minister with at least a greater portion here at the council, with less votes behind him, thinks that it can be so strongly overlooked by the Generals' will. No wonder people throughout the country are not comfortable with this march! We must insist that the Council adopts this matter, that it is the will of the greater part of the Generals involved, and that the matter is normally discussed at the World Councilship scene.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u8	A respectable president. I must agree with two o'clock. Councilmen who've been here before me. What we're seeing here is not only about the Congress resolution of a transport policy that was approved for a very long wait but also about the budget and who actually has the means to provide financial resources. Is it the General or the Government? We're watching an absolutely unprecedented operation from the highest level. A minister who actually turns to ignoring the conclusions that come from the Council, the laws that come from the Council, the orders that come from the Council. Then you have to ask: If Congress is in this country, or we're seeing again evidence that it's really just a technical hearing, a Minister's Office. Is that something we can accept? I think it's quite serious, especially in the light of the great and extensive peace that happened here by Christmas on the budget. [[The president calls.]] This completely violates the trust that was created here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u9	A respectable president. I can't help but agree with them why. Councilmen who have spoken before me. This is simply not acceptable. V.E.G. Jón Gunnarsson's minister was one of 11 senators who both adopted election transport plans as well as election funding, in which this was not the case. We who were here to work when the budget was taken care of know that there was an agreement to focus on certain lawsuits, then it would be viewed when a new government had come to power. This is simply a betrayal of that agreement. The way we cut down the road, the priorities are not something of the highest priority. Minister. We're here with the Environment and Transport Committee at work that's not asked anything in this regard, it's only allowed to hear this in an interview when the Minister intends to report it. We are here with a body of Congress to discuss these matters according to the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u10	V.E.G. President. Yes, I can't help but agree. Senators here have spoken. It is completely unpleasant and intolerable to the highest level. A secretary of transportation can make decisions like this one without consulting. General. By his decision, he has set a number of individuals and businesses, including some of them. in southern weather, in confusion, and in the face of this decision and this press movement and words at the highest level. The secretary of transportation then crushes much anger, understandable anger, in the community, including the U.S. ... southoftheWestland. I'm the highest. A secretary of transportation to come to what? All of us, and let us know what we're doing. Councilmen on this and on the cuts taken and bringing it into the council so that we can take a physical discussion and work on the transport program involved here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u11	President. You often hear that the Council concludes, the General agrees. This actually means that the more part concludes with the approval, or more, the minister is in charge. It seems that way, and this, of course, is nothing for the first time. Many people remember what a former foreign minister did in dealing with the European Union, but they were not included here in the council. I'd really like to hear what we're talking about. The members of the greater part of this section are concerned with the decree of the Minister. It would be very helpful to hear what other government advisers think of these tactics, whether they are amateurs or if they are professional and careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u12	Madam President. It is thus in both transport and road and completely clear that it should be carried out on a schedule adopted by the General Assembly, and it will be fueled by individual projects, as per Article 4. Section 3. adapting transport programmes and 2nd-registered areas. Section 16. A road song. This can't be any clearer. This should be carried out according to programmes that are cut off by individual projects and that have been approved by the General. As a result, a travel minister cannot deal with the mismanagement between road plans and budgets to take control of the strategy decided by the General Assembly. It can't resist. It can't resist. It can't be controlled. It can't resist the law. The minister in his emergency defense could bring all the coins down evenly and say that he was neutral in the order of the Generalis, but he cannot take extraordinary steps and throw them out completely while others get fully established. It doesn't make sense. Then he must make a new suggestion, new priorities, for the Council, and, of course, more money is needed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's no other way for this to be solved. Of course, the message from society today is simple: It cannot last any longer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u13	Madam President. I insist that we get a transport plan to talk to you about. Of course, these are not acceptable practices. The financial committee was given the bitter cup to try to set priorities and make financial preparations, trying to establish the small budget of transportation that was planned and to promote solidarity in difficult situations. Then comes a new government that has nothing to do with it. Nothing. It is, of course, not a decent government to work like this. The whole government is responsible for these tactics. We need to get more funding into this team, transportation in the country. It was said that a new government would adopt the budget. Where is that work now? Don't you think they'll do anything about it? Under the circumstances, wasn't this a provision for Christmas on the budget? But now the government's not going to do anything. [[The president calls.]] Just stirring the pots each one in his own department and offering it to the Americans. [[The president calls.]] I think we're all just going to chain ourselves to some way to show the seriousness of this matter. [[Up front.]] It's in many countries that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u14	President has to ask. A member of the body is showing respect for the part of the public speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u15	A respectable president. I was a member of the budget board in December. As we considered the priorities involved. Then road and departments came and presented the job position to a financial committee. A financial committee included two current ministers and the president of the Generals. They know exactly what it is and what an agreement was made. The news that is coming to us today is not consistent with the agreement that these Ministers and the president of the Generals know about. This is not in accordance with what the Road Building and the Ministry told us about the status of the project programme and we agreed. This is a little tricky, and especially dangerous now that there are new laws on government finance, which suggest that a minister can reinvent his missions and activities and that the Council can do nothing about it. [[The president calls.]] We need to take this action.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u16	V.E.G. President. It is not unusual, in itself, for it affects the entire population. It is clear that the policy of transportation that we agreed on raised hopes, especially since the cutdown to these infrastructures has been enormous in recent years and the situation is roading all over the country, so there is a need for full improvement. I'd like to inform you that I have been chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee requested to have a transport minister at the Committee's meeting and that he has made that request, and we will meet with him on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice for her initiative or initiative by the Committee to call the minister to a meeting, but I don't think that would do any good. It is naturally a limited number of members of Congress on the environment and transport committee. Transport plan is a matter of concern to the entire council. So I wish that the president will take the initiative to make a discussion, whether it's a special discussion or even that the Minister will give us a report of the changes he is making in the will of the Generals when it comes to transportation. I have to say, however, that we should not be surprised that this is done. That government was created on the basis of clear will, including The secretary of finance, that this should not increase the income of the state's funds, here should not be the necessary infrastructure. The Minister of Transport has been looking for some income stocks, but it seems to be completely contrary to the policy presented in financial policy at the council. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I wish that the president will take the initiative to have a report or a special discussion with a minister so that we can hear from him directly what he is doing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u18	Madam President. It is not so simple that it is merely a matter of priorities. paritaprevir This is Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's Valgerður. It's about boundaries. Here we have a minister who seems to think of himself as the new sun king, who goes for power to someone other than the Generals. All I want to do is direct it to Mrs. and the senators... that we set up and arrange a course for a new minister of authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u19	Madam President. The reason for meeting December's budget was rather simple. Among the things we were able to get together was to make significant improvements in transport. It also included the making of specific projects. There was no government working, i.e. It was a government, but it did not change the fact that this government set limits for us. What was suggested, however, in the Committee's Committee of the Committee, at the request of the Ministry, was that we would not list all the changes we are making on the budget. Hence, all of these changes were not required, whether it was transport, culture, or health matters, but were not completely in the committee's opinion. Now the minister is going to compromise with this decision because it was not the tenth. It's unacceptable, and we senators can't accept this, we're just passive tools at the council, and we have little here to do if we're to ignore this will. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The minister of Jón Gunnarsson needs to submit a new transport strategy that we can discuss. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u20	A respectable president. I think it's just one thing to say. In fact, a minister is not authorized by the current law to go against the decisions of the Generals. I'm asking for the president's help in driving him back with this. That's the biggest one there is. Jón Gunnarsson's minister has to use all his power. We've seen it in his office in the past. We saw earlier that he was fired back with changes in the frame plan. Now it's time to run the highest. Minister Jón Gunnarsson has returned with priority for the implementation of transport programmes. I can't believe, Mr. Honorable President, that more of the Generals are supporting the staff. Minister of Jón Gunnarsson. I would like to remind you, as it has been mentioned, that there is a request for a special discussion on the transport process at a request. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Otttar's Óttarsson Proppér to Jón Gunnarsson's son. I wish to a respectable president that this discussion will be immediately over the next few days because there is no waiting for the situation. [[The president calls.]] Allegiance is at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u21	V.E.G. President. In such matters, it is reasonable that members of the Parliament have strong conjectures and strong opinions. However, I ask them how these discussions can be directed to an organized and upbuilding channel here at the council rather than to be in the President's conference board with excitement and enthusiasm. In this discussion, there has been considerable agitation and exasperation. We have received the information from the Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee that a minister will appear to them on the other day to discuss these views. I believe it is only natural that the discussion will begin at that point, although it may not be completed there. In the same way, it is normal for a financial committee to consider the factors involved. But most of all, I think it's important for us to discuss these matters objectively and in some structured direction rather than that 20 people come to the President's conference board to get upset when there are opportunities to get these matters organized. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u22	V.E.G. President. This is where I'm gonna measure my calm and calmness. I have tried to develop it and intend to continue to do so. I also want to think in terms and suggest how we can solve this situation. I'm happy as hell. paritaprevir This is Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice, reporting to us at the highest. Ministers will install a transport committee. Also, I know that there is a request to the highest. Ministers, report to the budget board. I think that's a good idea, and I suggest that the president encourage the highest power. Minister to do that. Then I'd also like to agree with the notion that it would be extremely good and useful, good for us here, to come together and talk to the highest degree. Minister on which way we're going. Are we here just on some sort of merry-go-round, fucking senators on some show? Then we might as well stay down here in the exercise room as the Ministers can handle it. That's not how it's supposed to work. But let's talk. And let's just calm down, that's all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u23	A respectable president. I'm gonna be a little more excited than what you're doing. Senator. Although I'm glad that a meeting has been called on the highest transport board. Minister I don't think that's enough. At least I think it would be possible to have this meeting open, because it's a meeting that's important to the whole country. So I'll encourage you to do it. Environment and transport committees will maintain an open meeting with the highest level. Minister on this matter because it's very serious. What example does it give to other stewards that a minister can only ignore the authority of the council, the boundaries the council has set for the Commission? If that's okay with us, we don't have much to do here. But at least we can try to think in solutions, and I think that one of the answers is an open committee meeting with the highest level. Secretary of transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u24	Madam President. I am very happy to read from the improved chapters of the government's declaration of cooperation at the moment, with permission of the president: It must be built up trust in the basics of society, including the General... How do we build up trust by accepting a campaign plan for elections, speaking in an election campaign about the need to finance that structure, and then, right after the election, it's forgotten? Then how do we build trust here within the council, not just to the voters, but to the 63 members here at the council? How do we build up that trust when we agree with an agreement to a budget made by a minister who feels that he is not bound by anything? The spirit of that agreement is only thrown out the window if a minister seems to like it. It is about trust that we need to build up, both toward the nation and toward one another. To accomplish this, you need to take the highest power. Minister Jón Gunnarsson has some kind of communication course because he is unprovable in this role. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u25	President. I'll agree with the solutions that have been presented here. We're all calm, except maybe we're okay. A member of the Independence Party here talking about excitement. But I think it's amazing to see what's going on. A minister here behaves repeatedly, as is true of those affected by this issue. By permission of the president, Jón Gunnarsson told the secretary of transportation that the local protests had not changed, the decision had been made on the road priority, but he hoped to get more funding for next year's discussion so that the road could be completed. Madam President. The priority was set. There was a vote here at the council as to what that priorities should be like. V.E.G. It seems that a minister does not intend to listen to local protests or members of Congress or to his own decision. [[The president calls.]] It's amazing to me. I challenge the president in part that this discussion will be discussed with the Minister of Congress in bright light.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u26	A respectable president. As we have reached this point, the budget was taken up in some kind of reconciliation in December. Some took pride in that reconciliation and talked about how good she had been, including both the highest. the current prime minister and the highest. The current financial minister. Part of that reconciliation was a common understanding that it would be adopted when a new government began ruling. They're making a fool out of the Senate by acting like it was merely a matter of smiling in the audience. I don't think that much lies ahead of me either. paritaprevir In a fatherly tone and problem with others, the offer of an annual Ármannsson is here to show up how to behave. But I'm glad to hear what's going on. The senator to set these matters straight, and he would like to agree. paritaprevir The Svandís Svavarsdóttir to remind me of my plea for discussion at the highest level. The secretary of transportation is quick to consider these matters. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson was declaring support, and I would like to ask for it with the sun in my heart and in my strength of calm. The president will try to establish that discussion as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u27	Madam President. Of course, we must have this part of the discussion under this team, about the President's conference board, because it's about the highest level. A minister has ignored decisions made in this hall by the General. That's why we have to wait to the highest level. President of the Council on this matter. Well, that's the role of the president. That's what I'm saying. Very calm. Then, of course, we need to have a discussion about transportation in a larger and wider context, so we want to agree with those who have spoken about the special discussion. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has requested to deal with the highest. A minister will be scheduled as soon as possible, and I really mean this week, because it should be named next week, and it's a case that can't wait. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is out of the community that we discuss this matter, and that is what we should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u28	A respectable president. I'm not surprised at the harsh reactions we've been experiencing here, not at all. I would like to say that there would have been a great improvement if we had had the opportunity to meet an environment and transport committee with the highest level. A secretary of transportation to obtain at least the time of his development. I say for myself, though I am the first member of the Northwestern district, I do not have a final list from the Minister on that subject. Second, I'd like to say and confirm that in December we made quite a few adjustments to the budget bill and we discussed an assignment. We've been talking about putting funds on animal tunnels. We discussed Hermann, a major project such as Fallifos Road, but we did not download a project on the final report of the Commission, and we looked at the way that the minister had to have in some way self - custody in that regard, since he is naturally able to stop to 9 billion holes that came after the legal committee of last December. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u29	A respectable president. Here a new assembly adopted an approved but vastly expanded transport plan. While management did not finance this transport program in the budget, it did more than 20 billion over a financial program on other projects, for example. not for the health system. A new assembly was arranged and needed to provide financial support for the health and transportation programs. It simply did not achieve an agreement on higher donations to finance the transport plan or the health system. We didn't get any more money than we agreed on in the Congress's agreement on funding 2017. This is the problem we face. The management board did not finance a transport program as it was supposed to be. Rather, it provided a bill that was 20 billion over a budget without a transport plan. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We had to stop in the hole. There was no agreement on any higher than this. [[The president calls.]] Now we're sitting in the soup when the Ministers come to an angle. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u30	Madam President. It's not complicated. Ministers are acting on behalf of the council. Ministers are required to carry out what the council agrees with them. On the other hand, if they do not do what the council wants to do, there is no need to ask. Then the minister may not have any support or commission. We made a deal here for Christmas. It's minimal enough that the Minister maintains that agreement. Of course, the transport plan needs to be adopted and a new order instituted. But the council cannot agree that the minister ignores an agreement that all members of the council shared in making before Christmas. It's not working. President. I can't believe Mr. President is putting it over us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u31	A respectable president. If I understand correctly, it was Frenchman Charles de Secondat de Montesquieu, who was the first to point out the need to separate lawgivers, executives, and jurists. He was perfectly right, since he presented such specific and sound reasoning. Now we see an example in which this is not working. There is also another one. It may not have been mentioned here, that is national will. In the autumn, the program was discussed, and it eventually adopted in good terms. After all, members of Congress and the general population agreed on the need to provide considerable more funding for the infrastructure, especially for transport systems. So it's like a wet rag right now. [[The president calls.]] Our Berrudard partners did a pretty good job, I must say.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u32	Madam President. Of course, it is important that the secretary of transportation handles the matter. We have to stand here to protect the honour of the Generals and make sure the law is followed. But the big task is to open your eyes to the fact that the hunger policy on road events has to stop. This situation is no longer possible. There's gotta be a significant change here. Transport costs need to be increased, especially road transport. That's what it takes. There's got to be some kind of money to make. And it would be so good that road fees, fuel, and oil tax laws, and miles of oil, are in full force that means all the revenues that come from a special tax on gasoline, oil tax, and the cost of a mile, minus 0.5% that the state receives in collection fees. Would it not be advisable, then, to unite here at the General Assembly to use these institutions before proceedings? That would be in the eight months of the year, which could be charged with raising expenses, drawing something into the lack below. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u33	Madam President. I just want to continue with the discussion from a budget board in December that walked, as we know, very quickly. I would really like to encourage the current minister, social and equal minister and secretary of state who was on a budget at the time to make some sense of transport. In fact, they may have failed the test in the first place because a financial committee that agreed on a few points and a few billion on this additional project was in accordance with the opinion of the people of the Committee that when a new government, whatever the case, had to take over the budget, the government would have to make its mark on them. This government has not chosen to do so. I also wonder about it, and I ask people to think about it as we discuss government policy: It does not control the performances and other future health, welfare, education, and transportation practices. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u34	There are: health ministers, social and equal ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, foreign ministers, and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u35	Madam President. I'm going back to where it was gone. You see, I want to talk to the highest. Health Minister and Chairman Brights the future for reasons that the government is going to ignore the transport plan, a means of transportation that he approved for elections at the same time and that he promised better tactics, new politics, and less willing. A new political arrangement was adopted by transport. It was achieved across groups. They are leaping from the table, and they don't intend to fulfill it. Yet, even before elections, the cost of the project was too high. This does not work out that the solution is just the highest. A secretary of transportation has proclaimed that the charges around the capital area, which were not discussed for elections, should be carried out, or nothing will be done. Now it looks like the highest. A secretary of transportation intends to prioritize tasks on his own. Therefore, I ask, Are these counted as willing ones, Mr. Health Minister? And I'm asking the highest. Ministers also: How, then, are we to live up to and accept a means of transportation? Will he take advantage of a national budget plan that will bring money into line with an approved transport plan? How will he seek financial support in this work? In other words, which leads to the highest. A minister can be used to fulfill his promise?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. A valid protocol was adopted under very special conditions, such as conditions. A senator knows. She was submitted shortly before the election. It was known when it was submitted that it was out of harmony with the current financial plan of the previous government. I personally sat as an assistant on the Environment and Transport Committee for a meeting where we scratched our heads over this. True, a positive outlook was in our mind that a more successful approach would be possible to finance a transport program. This year's budget was made clear in the work of the Christmas Fund Committee, as it was being agreed and working on funding for the year that they were able to add a little bit to meeting the lack of transport. I can say that this is a problem. We know that the infrastructure has been subsidized from collapse. This is especially true on the road. Therefore, it is of great importance that solidarity was achieved, first on the Environment and Transport Committee of the Last Parliament and again on a budgetary committee, with emphasis on improving maintenance. It was done. That's very important to me. But it is our job now in preparing financial programs for the next year to improve properly. I find this an important assignment, but it is also a hard assignment because there is a lack of other areas, and we have problems with public financial expenses at the age of three. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u37	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister does not see reason to answer directly the four questions I raised to him. Then I ask him to answer one thing: Secretary to work at the highest. Ministers are normal, or does he think they're willing? So he'll answer that. And finally, Telev. Ministers to underinvest transport with other litigations, including health care? I especially mention difficult medical transportation and, of course, too many of the accidents that have occurred in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u38	A respectable president. I believe that subsidence in the transport system will be affected by something else, that's what it says. Unfortunately, we've seen an increased number of accidents, especially with a very large increase in tourism, increased traffic, especially in certain areas of the country, and is directed directly toward the state, to one-burn bridges, etc., so we have a lot of work to do. We know this in my case too, where there is increased physical stress, and there is an increased strain on emergency health care facilities here and there. I've said it before in this chair that about A tenth patient in the hospital intensive care unit is a tourist from an accident.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u39	What about the Minister's work?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u40	These are the problems. I think the Minister's work is in line with the situation we've been in, where our last council approved a lettering process that we need to work on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important that the Minister introduces an environment and transport committee and is happy that such a decision has been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u41	Madam President. I'd like to direct my inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of health. This virgin talk of mine at the General Assembly delayed for a few weeks because of illness that I don't think I have to trace any further. Therefore, given the occasion, I would like to ask the highest. Health Minister when a body of Congress can expect to learn about the government's mental - health action programme. I know from my own experience that this case has an emergency. I now say that patients are discriminated against by whether they have a condition called physical or mental illness, and things will only get worse if we continue on the same path. A mental ward is well - off, and even the furniture in it is disintegrating so that the patients are not mentioned. As is the case today, mental health problems can only take someone in grave danger. Those who are less ill need to wait until their case is resolved. Only then can you do something. It may be likened to not accepting a patient with an atherothrombotic event, telling him to return when he has fallen from a heart attack. Only then will anyone be able to keep him alive. Simply put, it's a crazy policy that costs lives. On average, up to one Icelander every week falls by his own hand, far more than does he die in traffic. There is therefore a hurry to get answers from the highest. Healthcare Minister on how much time we have left to deal with this crisis immediately during the current session, both in terms of the current emergency situation of mental health care and prevention to ensure it is not even worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u42	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and also congratulates him on the virgin talk. This is a very important subject that is very close to my heart. Mental health is, I'm not saying, but it really needs a lot of injection. I've looked at a mental - health conference adopted during springtime last year. There is a policy on how we are preparing for the Ministry, but unfortunately, that work is not finished. This is due, in part, to elections, government crisis, and because the government was late, but I hope to bring them work to the council as soon as possible. I agree with what. A senator to invest in mental health care, increased service, not only at the Land Hospital and Great Hospitals, but also through the medical clinic, through the community, and directly through the school system - we have previously discussed psychological services into the high school that I think is a very important project and may cooperate with medical care. These are important tasks and important investments for society. One of the things we need to develop now in planning financial programmes to the next five years is how we can lift the preventive and public health components of the budget, let's say, to improve the end of quality of life and also create direct savings at the other end. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u43	Madam President. I'd like to thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. In particular, it is important to consider that these packages are used as part of a prevention system, as he spoke of, and in high school, high school, and elsewhere. Finally, I would like to ask if there is a special program for mental health care in young people or whether they are really just part of this bigger package that we are about to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u44	Madam President. As I said in my first speech, there is a program of action at the Ministry of Mental Health. In fact, it is said that young people's affairs are very high in this category because the shoe is in a hurry. In the Treaty, it is stated that we emphasize the quality of life for young people as well as for the families of young people who are so important. Likewise, it is important to look to those who are in trouble, especially children. So this emphasis is important in our work. But again, I thank the senator very much for your good inquiry and happiness with the virgin talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u45	Madam President. It's headed for a busy day at the highest. Secretary of health. I'm going to ask him about health care, not transportation or sea care. I've had a place to say before. The minister for his position on private or private health care and, of course, encouraged him to stand by the public health system and to resist the efforts of private profits further into the core of health care. There's reason to pick up the case now, including for the news of the company's private driving. In view of the reply of a minister, until this which I have found somewhat floating, I will ask: "Where is the chief? Minister's presence now? Which place is the highest. A minister now on the matter of prosecuting the private company to begin a special hospital service cost of public funds? The question is simply, Will the highest. Minister to launch a private hospital fund with pay from health insurance on the basis of a contract or not? May we be confident that we will do so at the highest. Ministers hold the public health system? Second, I think there's a reason to ask the highest question. Minister: Won't the Ministry have to review their definition of the activities that the clinical community already has and in the news that it already has specialized hospital operations, special surgical procedures, even though they are paid to the full extent of the procedure? Is it any longer helpful to let this happen under cover because it is a specialist job center where complex specialized surgical procedures involving general anaesthesia and everything are involved? As the Ministry changes its definition to the surgeon general's position that this is a special hospital operation, does it occur to the government's permission team and greater government options for operating?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u46	Madam President. The definition of activities in the clinical setting or elsewhere, depending on whether there is a specialised hospital service or a health care professional centre, may be confused due to some lack of clarity. It is clear that activities conducted in the Clinical and other private centres are paid according to the Convention on Medical Insurance based on cross-cutting agreements with experts. I think the big question is work on actions that hear under the so-called wait-list campaign, i.e. in particular joint replacement procedures, cardiac catheterisations, eye surgery, in which the General decided to inject three years. We are now preparing and far along in the second year of this special campaign. We have not decided to negotiate with a private member in that context. Most of these measures have been carried out by the public hospital and health institutions. At the present time, it looks just fine with the rest of the year. I need to get into this deeper in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u47	Madam President. I'd rather celebrate it as the ultimate. The minister, in effect, says that he believes that there is no reason to look outside the public hospitals that are working with special funds down the waiting list, i.e. National Hospital, Akureyri Hospital, and Ac Arane, are looking well in that regard. The definition is not important. Of course, the big opinion here would be that, and the huge border being covered would be made a contract with a private hospital that is run for financial gain by private agents, who had entered a more specialized hospital service and with a sanitarium and a god knows what. I don't think that's going to be back. Therefore, it is not allowed to happen that, under the cover of the waiting lists and temporary circumstances, men should try to cut down these lines and launch the first private hospital in Iceland. V.E.G. When dealing with mental - health issues and other health issues, a minister is dealing with financial problems. Does it make any sense, then, to begin embezzling this portion of blister and acting against the position of the surgeon general, the Land Hospital, and such individuals in such cases? [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. Minister to stand on your feet.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for challenging me. He's done it before, challenging me to follow the law and to keep me. I certainly take it to myself. It is my basic duty to secure the ministry, to make sure that, as the law says, we give the people the best health care possible. Much of this is a strong public system, a strong Landspiral system, and it is my duty not to disrupt the public service system so that it cannot have full - time service and emergency services. This is especially so when I am making a decision on the wait list and, as I say, thank you for the encouragement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u49	A respectable president. The European Union is currently making major breakthroughs in which one of the largest states, Britain, is preparing an outing. The European Union will be deeply concerned with these changes, as the future of this situation will have a major impact on Europe's future. This issue is also high in Iceland's foreign policy. In the Treaty of the Government of the Independence Party, Action, and Bear's Future in Foreign Affairs, the President's permission states: The Commission will work with the European Union on the European Environment Agency Convention. The development of the European Union in the coming years must be closely monitored and strictly observed in Iceland according to its individual circumstances. Special attention should be paid to the possibility of giving away from the relationship with Britain. The Parliament closely monitors Europe's development and increases its links to sister institutions in other European countries. This makes it clear that the main focus of the government policy is on the EEA agreement and therefore our involvement in EFTA, where EFTA is responsible for the implementation of the EEA Convention. A respectable president. It's after what's happened. The head of the General Assembly of the State Department and the Council of Reunion, Elínardóttir Sólveru Elinardóttir, on the U.S. newspaper Washington Times's press website, in Iceland's involvement in European Free Trade Associations no longer satisfied Iceland's interests. This was done further in the morning paper. So I ask the highest. Minister of State to see if he agrees with the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee on Iceland's involvement with EFTA is no longer effective in securing Iceland's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. As shown in the Treaty, a member of the Parliament here carefully directs the policy of the government and quotes an article in which I do not know which was the right thing to say. A senator and president of the Foreign Affairs Committee. What I do know about that article, however, is that it was not accurate and not well accomplished when we discussed Iceland and our dealings with the European Union and the EEA and other such. The key point is that we are in good position when it comes to communication in Europe. The European Union has long been highly stratified. We have the European Union, the euro, EFTA, the EEA. Some countries are in NATO and others are not. We are in a position to have the EEA contract which provides us with access to the EU market. Of course, he will weigh less when one of the largest countries goes out and one of our most important business countries. It is obvious that our mission is to make sure that we have no greater access than we now have to British markets when the British leave the European Union. In the same way, of course, our mission is to make sure that we do so primarily through EFTA, that we have access to the big markets that are about to develop. Fortunately, we have good access, such as. to the market in China. Just to put things in perspective, the middle class in China has now become bigger and larger than the whole population of the United States. The answer to a question why. A senator, a former chief. The minister is simply, if the case is correct in this interview, that I do not agree with that statement, but I would like to discuss opportunities between Iceland's foreign trades in dealing with other countries. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u51	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of State for a clear answer to my inquiry. I've looked at the article again, and I can't better see, I'm quite good at English, that everything in this article is very clear. I can see why. The head of the State Department shakes here, but I have not noticed that it has any correction in this article or presented some correction, so I think it would be most desirable for them to do so, if the greatest foreign rulers cannot make their case any better than they really do, perhaps to correct it. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of State whether it stands to correct the very different views presented in this article in the Washington Times and whether it would be inappropriate for our colleagues in EFTA.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u52	A respectable president. We sent corrections from this article in a recent newspaper because there were many things that were wrong and even wrong. has been noted that the headline was not in harmony with wording. A senator, but that may not be the main point. Iceland has already worked with other EFTA countries on what is involved in the passage of the British from the EU. And so is the case with the problem. A senator here read from the Treaty then we've watched very carefully what is going on in the EU. I have visited two representatives in the Commission that deal with these issues, since the European Union's position is even less twisted and perhaps more twisted than the British, if that is the case. But we cannot discuss it in the few seconds here. However, I think it would be preferable for us to discuss this position at the council and others who are involved in international affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u53	A respectable president. There's plenty to do at the highest. Secretary of health. A financial committee was given a presentation on the follow-up of budgets earlier today. There was a high - risk team over fees. One of the factors that are considered to exceed money is expert services and nursing at 2 billion by 2017. That's a 13% increase for that team. They're going to create a policy for the grammatical field. Policy work is expected to start no later than after the financial programme has been adopted at the General Assembly. In August a policy will be introduced. Each minister is responsible and is under effective control of the implementation of funding in his field of business. Each minister is responsible for the provision of funds within the framework established by the General Assembly. If there are significant financial costs or if there is any reason to believe that this is the case, the minister should promptly state the reasons and measures he has or intend to take to prevent any variation between spending and financial resources. Risk food was returned on February 10th to the Ministry. A financial committee was then informed on today's issue, March 6. So I ask the highest. Health Minister: When did one minister recognize the measures he intends to take in order to avoid overwork? And without a policy on the subject, how can a minister be quick to argue that action follows policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Here is another matter made as a new government and the Minister here says that when a government is formed in early January. The status and appearance of the vacancy are not consistent with the budget agreed by the World Council by the Year's Eve. We've been looking especially at the risks of drugs, and we started looking at them. It was a decision, approved by the government, to hide it from the secretary of finance and health - care ministers, i.e. the predictable exit drive, and bring operations. That's what we're looking at, but we haven't. The same can be said of expert services and nurses. It looks like we're going ahead, and there's a chance. That job, operation, is going on with us. But, of course, it is also linked to work with a financial program that is under a lot of pressure in high - paying conferences, such as the Ministry of Health or the Health Department. It's all a little bit on our table at once. It's got to be said right now. But I'm aware of this problem, and we at the Ministry are considering what we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u55	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. The drug business is just another risk factor that almost makes up another 2 billion, 1.5 or 1.9, and I can't exactly remember if it was. What I'd like to follow is where these unexpected budgeters come from. It's not long since we agreed on budgets, just over two months since, and suddenly, there are about 4 billion high - risk companies. Here is a health minister. Connecting to this e.g. the issues we talked about earlier in unprepared inquiries? This is about expert services and nursing, and the occurrences of health insurance that are involved in the sending out to specialists or to the clinical community that has been discussed. Or from where else do we clearly need the extra expenses, according to the highest term? Minister, taking into account a raise?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u56	A respectable president. I'd like to mean that these differences do not come from certain sources or such but primarily from the way in which plans and financial work have been maintained over the years when it comes to those joints that may have been, we should say estimated but not completely anticipated when it comes to volume. The budgets that were approved in the autumn were adopted at a very rapid pace, such as the winter. A senator knows, and from the fixed which was proposed, which I mean that in these cases there were full-specture estimates. Over the years, it has been customary for us to include those who have followed the volume and were only vague, that is, a tendency to estimate close numbers and then to go to budgets. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So we have to change with a new set of laws on public finances, and I'm going to put it to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u57	President. The full value of the OPCAT Protocol, an addition to the United Nations Convention on torture, was adopted in the December 19, 2015, General Assembly. The Protocol requires the monitoring of individual partners with institutions that save freedom-sensitive individuals in order to prevent ill-treating and torture. The OPCAT is conducted by a national monitoring committee which must be specifically implemented in this country and, on the other hand, the international monitoring committee operates on the basis of the Convention that visits Member States, inspects the institutions and is also a member of the national monitoring committee. The institutions that monitor us are prisons, but they also include mental hospitals and health institutions that save people who are in need of freedom. The NTSB will have regular and even unexpected reconnaissances on institutions and prisons. It must be ensured that the Committee has complete access to the houses, staff, and inmates that it can discuss with its private members if it seems appropriate. It must be ensured that the work of the committees will be cross-cut off and that it will come to form a lawyer, a doctor, and a psychologist. In addition, the committee itself and its interviewers must be assured of the protection against possible penalties and venalties. The rights of the committee to all information and data must then be clear. It is stated that the committee has sufficient funds to fulfill its commitments. The Commission's article on validation of the book shows that the state has one year from its validation to establish national surveillance, but it can have three years' time to make a special declaration when the book is validated. Although more than a year has come from the approval of the Generals for validation, the Protocol has not yet been formally validated by Iceland. Therefore, I request information on how the OPAAT is implemented and when it is scheduled that monitoring according to its requirements may begin. The OPCAT book also shows that the International Committee is commissioned to be a member of the Member States for the assistance and advice of national monitoring. Internationally, free groups work against torture, which have great knowledge of the monitoring work. The APT organization was specifically formed to pressure the development of an international contract for monitoring institutions that save people of freedom. This goal became realized in 2002 when the OPCAT book was adopted at the UN General Assembly. Projects of the APT Association today vary but include • providing assistance and advice to the Member States during the induction period as well as to help them with the national monitoring committee. The highest. The Minister of Justice informed whether any formal consultation with the members of the United Nations or international organisations, such as the APT Association, has occurred in preparation for the induction? How is consultation with relevant stakeholders carried out in the introduction of national monitoring? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u58	A respectable president. I appreciate the inquiry, and I'm not going to repeat everything. A senator was here doing everything that was true and true and as regards the outcome of this case, the Council's resolution No. 8/145 approved in December 2015, where the Council appointed the government to validate Iceland for an optional book making the United Nations Convention on torture, which includes humans by the name OPCAT. It is also true that Iceland has been criticized internationally because of its lack of validation, including the fact that Iceland has not been a source of international criticism. on the scene of the European Council's Council for defense of torture and the United Nations. In the Universal Human Rights Committee of the United Nations, which was conducted in 2011, Iceland also received an education from the European Commission of Human Rights in the United States. recommendation to complete this task. The United Nations organization is now completing its complete circulation in Iceland. A report made by the government shows that it is working on the validation of this work. The United States has also accepted a number of instructions made in the United Nations Council of Human Rights on November 1. We're validating that account. It is right to think that in this OPCAT book, the surveillance of the individual bodies assigned to regularly visit agencies that save freedom-sensitive individuals in order to prevent torture and other brutal or disrespectful treatments. However, it is entirely the custody of Member States to make a decision regarding the domestic surveillance arrangements. Preparation for the induction process and including They are working to map the sites that the surveillance will take place. In that case, they are all places to save people of freedom, even if saving was only temporary. Of course, these are especially prisons, prisons at police stations, wards that save the mentally ill, children's homes, and departments in nursing homes where the brain is saved. These institutions are made up of both the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Health, some of which are only under one. Of course, when I began to study these matters myself, I wondered, " Is this check not already done according to the nature of the issue? ' for the Ministry of Health, in the presence of hospitals. Of course, surgeon generals have a routine checkup. But I was surprised to learn that a surgeon, for example, is in fact a surgeon's interest. I don't know that I'm under surveillance of aging institutions, residence homes. There's at least that. Not in this light. Governments have discussed with members of the United Nations because of the preparation of the validation but consultations, both with them and with national stakeholders, will be carried out in later stages. It has been strongly proposed by the State Department that the U.S. government agent will be assigned to national Affairs, and the General for his part has agreed. The agent's office meets all conditions laid up in the accounting and has public trust in the community. Thus, the office must be considered extremely well to be involved in this vital work, since this has been the case in many parts of Europe and in all the North countries. Is that all you could see? Has the State Department been working on this preparation in cooperation with an agent, including by mapping the size. However, it remains to prepare necessary adjustments in the law of an agent. It's inevitable. Sadly, the project failed to be placed on the State Department budget by 2017. The State Department is now working to find ways to finance the project, but hopes are that the Ministry of Health and the General will be involved in this, along with the Ministry. It would be desirable to secure some capital right away this year, but the full funding of the project from 2018, to start the preparation of the project by the U.S. agent later this year and place it on budgets for 2018. By doing so, this year's accounting could, in effect, be valid. As far as the cost is concerned, this is not the final result. This depends on the final dimension, but the first suggestions that have been placed on the table are now revised.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u59	Mr. President. That's an important question. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir gave up. I think we must all agree that we want to be kept under close observation and that there is no doubt that Iceland does not practice torture on the part of its institutions. V.E.G. A minister came into it in his reply, and if I just understood her to miss the budget so that the approval of the Generalis could be followed. A familiar theme, you have to say, apparently. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it, then, simply because the funds they have drawn are not guaranteed for this surveillance, although it has been clear that Iceland had years to prepare and that it has not applied for this three - year period?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u60	President. I appreciate the answers. It is a joy to see that this matter is in some process, although it really happens very slowly. It is very serious that there are no funds left for this work. I think it's unacceptable. It was very well tore up when we took this matter through the council that to enforce the decision made by Generalis would require money. I challenge the Senate, the government and the Supreme Court. Minister to promote money for this work. I'd like to challenge the highest, too. Ministers to ensure that they will take advantage of the vast knowledge that the APT organization has, and I hope they will be replaced by their vast knowledge. In this case, it is very important that we open the seminar. I think it would be very helpful to have a seminar or open a meeting where loyalty would be involved in both foreign and domestic parties who know how to act and have professional and even personal experience in this field so that we can make sure that such important agreements are of the nature that all who work with or who are associated with people in this category are aware of the rights of peacemakers. The number of health- care providers is increasing, for example. steady-state. It is surprising that there was no monitoring of brain - related individuals and their equipment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u61	A respectable president. Yes, it is with this blessed budget that it needs to be prioritised. That's limited. It becomes evident, as if in any case, that a person is a narrow cut. In setting priorities, a person must also look at the urgency of his assignments. This project is certainly urgent, but we must not forget that we have a perfectly good arrangement in Iceland. I hope there's no human being involved in some form of torture here. [[Up front.]] True, many are more or less freedomlike, brainbroken, elderly, and others. It should also be kept in mind that those appointed as spokesmans, so we have some resources to monitor and try to stop the rights of those who are temporarily saved or for a long time in which their freedom is restricted. That's what I'm saying. I'm totally prepared for the lawsuit and the cause. A senator who has participated in the discussion. This needs to be maintained and placed in visible shape, but it is visible to humans on a daily basis. However, I would like to be sure that there are other reasons to support the rights of the individuals involved. Not everything may be obtained by setting up an institution or a routine checkup. [[Up front.]] This will be done at so many fronts. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u62	V.E.G. President. On May 12, 2014, a council proposal was adopted here at the General Assembly. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson is the first official of the case. The proposal was adopted by all paid votes in the chamber after an interpolitical solidarity was obtained. The welfare committee. The Conspiracy proposal was designed to hide the local resident from the highest degree. Minister of state and then supreme. Social and Housing Ministers to appoint a group of workers to investigate the exact equal positions of parents who would share their child's custody. On September 24, 2015, the Outfits returned their results. The results were that changes in child law would be made to balance the status of parents who share their children's custody and decide to raise a child together in two households. There would be a new provision allowing the exchange of children on the basis of the established agreement of parents to meet certain conditions. In addition to this, there were various laws on official support, changes in law on law, and changes in child law. At the same time, the rural communities were suggested to adjust their social services, thus taking into account the same responsibility as the family of parents and the training and care of children in matters that they care for and fall under the scope of rural society. A respectable president. It has been about a year and a half since the work force returned its results. The only change that has been made is that by a new law on housing, a child is considered to be a home for both parents, and this is a very positive step. However, there is still another action proposed by the Outfit. That's why I asked the questions we're discussing here and I'm asking for answers from the current highest level. Minister of Justice. I'm asking the highest. Justice Minister of the following questions: Is working on the basis of a report of the former Supreme Court. In September 2015, the Minister of Ministers on the residence of children who live in two homes in a report submitted to the General Assembly? If so, when will the bills be submitted? If not, when's the best time. Minister to start that work? I hope we begin to see the results of the Group of Staff coming on to the world headquarters at the Council. In fact, I don't believe anything else, since these aspects of a government contract are very clear. Governments, and I'm really happy about that. Among other things, the government covenant says that the community should support different family types and encourage parents who do not live together to make peace with their children. It also states that loyalty should be the right of children to be registered in a divided home in two legal homes and the status of members of their parents and the legal home of their parents.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's inquiry on this important matter, which I think most people would agree on is urgent, not just in the discussion, but rather urgent. Following a report by the Committee of Ministers on two households living under the same shapes of children, appointed at the General Assembly in September 2015, Ministers appointed three conferences, i.e. Internal, welfare, financial and economic services. In that group, a representative from the National Book of Iceland was also represented. The role of this task management was to develop a detailed analysis of the terms of law and regulations necessary to make changes so as to create bill and legalize rules in child - law provided by parents who share a common custody of a child and have decided to bring it up together in two households, to divide a child into a filled set of conditions. At the beginning of the work of the project, it was apparent that not only laws and regulations need to be changed but also that some physical changes need to be made. It was important to inform more people about the project, as well as to call for indications from them and their opinions. That's exactly what the project management did. She called for contacts from the Ministry of Education and Culture, the head of state tax, the Union of Icelandic rural society, Iceland's Medical Insurance, Security and Children's Health. This list can help us to see how incredibly complicated it is, in effect, to achieve what we feel is a child's natural rights, to be set up in the homes of both parents, especially if parents agree on this. It is intended that the work of the project should be completed in March. The next step would then be to start working on a legal bill for a change in children's law, along with a link with a change in various other laws. Change of specific regulations would also have to be made. Such work will be submitted in the hands of several advisers in which the changes in law and regulations are made to the State Department, the Ministry of State and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Health. But for the sake of a word. From the time the report was submitted, I feel that I should mention here, which may be visible only to the concerned, that a national record has recently worked to change its systems so that children are registered and connected with both parents. It may not be visible to anyone other than the parents involved. I am told that a parent can enter the website www.island.is, even a parent who does not have custody of a child and who does not have a child who lives at home, and who has a list of his children on the national paper. That information is not transmitted. A national record has not yet continued. But up to one point, the other parent can get this information. You see, it has not necessarily been possible to do so by looking up some basic material in a national file. But a national record has taken up this work. I understand that there are only four years of children, if we take children up to 18 years old, that will still be introduced into the national network in this way. It is the work that a national record has put into with other interrelated jobs, i.e. If a national file receives a request for some kind of entry on a given child, this will be accepted at the same time. It's a lot of work to be done, so that's not gonna happen alone, two and three, changing the registration of children into a national file. The question is, When will the basics of the case be submitted? As I have mentioned, there are other laws that can begin in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u64	Mr. President. I would like to read a section from the child's agent's commission to a report on equal farming, which provides an important reminder that there is always a need for attention to the interests of children in decisions they have to make. The review says, with the permission of a president: However, an agent does not feel that exchange of supplies will involve the need for parents to make all the decisions that concern a child together. While it is desirable for parents to consider all the decisions that concern children, it is clear that this situation can always arise when parents disagree. It is important to limit stress to children's lives and to try as much as possible to protect them from parental disputes. According to the Children's Authorship, it is not acceptable for a child to be in a position where a decision cannot be made, such as for school or medical care, only because parents cannot agree. As an agent has previously noted, children's interests because they enjoy stability and harmony in daily life are always more important than parents'interests when it comes to making decisions [...], they feel that it is right for the law - enforcement provider to continue the final promise of certain decisions that affect the daily lives of children, when parents cannot agree. I'm the highest. A minister to read this review and to apply this counsel in making a bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u65	A respectable president. I appreciate the aesthetist. My poor future people have kept this up high for the past year and are now found in the government covenant. I've studied this matter carefully, particularly the results of a report by the Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for clarifying the situation and asking if there is information on the role and responsibility of the local community in the implementation. I would like to remind me again of my desire to revise child law in the light of the United Nations Children's Covenant, where the main objective is to think about today and to respect the rights of children as independent individuals who live in two places, also mentioned in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u66	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here and at the highest level. Minister of Justice for the answers, since it explained the matter to us. As shown in the highest range of responses. The Minister of Justice is now working on the prime of a change in child law, a change in the rest and these tapeworms, and a change in Regulation. I know that after I began to examine these matters thoroughly, which I have done in the past few weeks, they are very complex. There are so many things under there, such as. About legal homes, tax laws, and other things that are behind them. But I am glad that much work was done in the case and after the service group returned. Obviously, they're working on it. It's like the highest. Minister of Justice reports that children's protection has already been contacted, the Union has been. Company and national records. A national file has been working on changes in its computer systems and other factors. Of course I know that much work has been done, but outside the community there are groups waiting for a change in this arrangement, we have to remember that. Companys are in a position where they have to conduct their rules according to the rules and regulations they have in college. There are many parents who share custody with a child each other in their community. I'm the highest. Minister of Justice continues to impress these matters and hopefully that we can see the basics on the matter as early as possible here. Generalis.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u67	A respectable president. Yes, there are many factors in this regard. The rural communities are part of the project management, they have had some part of their work in this regard, and they will continue to do so. Also, we must not forget that the arrangements for these matters - even if they need to start with governments or national records, we're just talking about switching houses and registrations. Thereafter, a number of people have to be willing to enter a record of double estates. This can be a challenge for many members, financial institutions, and others who need to work for the fact that a person has two homes. There's a lot of ideas in this. Of course, in such work, the child's interests are always guided primarily. There's never going to be a confession to some rule-change here that could compromise the child's interests in a direct or indirect way. This matter, however, is also a great deal of justice for children. It is important for them to be able to assume that they have two parents who do not live together and parents who agree to raise them together. Children should be able to assume that they have the right to be registered to both parents and that both parents are informed about their status and their situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u68	V.E.G. President. Waiters after diagnosis are extending, including ... attheking and counseling centre of the state. Some are already preschooled and wait - for - two years. That means these children will be in elementary school at the time of the diagnosis. Early intervention is extremely important. Early intervention is a deliberate attempt to influence the progress of children with a developmental abnormality as early as possible. The period from birth to six years is the period in children's lives for which early intervention is generally mediated, and the main focus is that the intervention will start as early as after detection of developmental abnormalities. The need for children to wait this long after diagnosis may result in an important loss of time. This is what we must do. We have and need to put the interests of our child and his family first and to think about what can be done to shorten this waiting period. A respectable president. In this discussion, I would like to consider whether it is possible to simplify this process in some way. In recent years, the knowledge of basic and game schools on a variety of developmental and academic abnormalities in children has advanced. At the same time, knowledge has increased with how students can be helped to attend school and school. At the same time, professional knowledge and the skills of the school service staff have increased as well as performances to detect abnormalities and provide advice to personnel. This should ensure that, to a lesser extent, the system needs to be searched after services, but at the same time, there is an extension of the waiting periods in the most special medical analysis, such as the State's diagnostic and counseling centre and other locations in this service. We must simplify the system, politicians in cooperation with professionals must come together and review a procedure. The ministry must be performed earlier and a closer look at the criteria set for a waiting period, e.g. in the case of surgeon general when we are talking about waiting period for physical illness. Of course, the same criteria should be when waiting for the various diagnosis, although we know that waiting time is much longer than the criteria indicate. They must expand their ministry and reduce the discomfort of the one to wait. So I'm going to ask the highest. societal minister the following questions: Take care of the highest. Ministers are now taking the initiative to shorten the waiting list for analysis, including The state diagnostic and counseling centre and the Development and Behavioral Station? Will a minister add funds to shorten this waiting list or use for other measures? If so, what kind of action?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This is very interesting. In my answer, I want to begin by referring to a recent report on education for everyone in Iceland, an education without separation, which shows that one of our problems is that we have overinvolved, we really overinvolved, especially children at the elementary school, and maybe we're involved. A senator mentioned here, that the education system is not entrusted with the first step in this, the simplest analysis, when children need minor assistance but is limited to the fact that the analysis occurred, and the rural society does not provide funding to the extent of a formal analysis. This is a system problem that creates an enormous waiting list in the analysis of children who primarily need minor help to get ahead. The answer to the question of whether we intend to take the initiative in this regard is: Yes, we intend to do so. I think it's necessary. This is an unacceptable waiting time. There are hundreds of children waiting for analysis at any given time, but I think a very large part of that problem lies in the system problem, i.e. that, in cooperation with our rural communities, we will change this approach so that education systems themselves will be trusted to perform a first-stage analysis and that we will concentrate on the state analysis and counselling centre and the Development and behavior center on those children who need more extensive resources and will be able to provide them better. Instead of being a well - defined formal analysis, society's finance should be ambitious to intervene quickly, to provide their children with the help they need at once. Whether it is then assessed that the child eventually needs a formal diagnosis or more options, the initial reaction of the education system should not be delayed. This has been pointed out many times, and this is one of the things that are being considered in cooperation with our rural society, how we can change that. The second question focuses on whether a minister intends to add capital. Last year, I think, extra funds were given for development and behavior centres to deal with a major waiting list problem there. The effort was successful. A final analysis is now being asked, which meant that the children who enjoyed the network services increased by almost 300 between years, from 350 to 650, that I think, and managed to shorten a waiting list by 100 individuals during one year, showing that these materials can be successful. We are evaluating this interaction of funds and the emphasis on a short wait list, but we are playing with our rural communities to deal with this systematic problem that helps us deal with it and provide it with a much earlier service. Thank you again for asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u70	Mr. President. A land surgeon's website contains thresholds for what may be considered acceptable requests for health care. The following criteria apply, by permission of the president: ▪ Association with a health center on that day. An interview with a health care professional within 5 days. Inspection by a specialist within 30 days. Anaesthetical intervention/treatment within 90 days of diagnosis A report of February 2016's National Review of Mental Health at the end of 2015 stated that approximately 718 children waited for themselves and lateral surgery for mental health problems. The ADHD Association reports that hundreds of individuals are now awaiting the diagnosis and development of ADHD and the follow-up scan. A fourth hundred children are now in development and behavior, of which a third is in the so-called priority and wait. The ADHD team for adults has about two years of waiting. Clearly, there is a need to promote mental - health services in the paediatric population and to provide better access to the diagnosis and treatments needed. The value of psychotherapy, education and social resources, as well as the support of parents and teachers, must also be increased. It will be expensive for society to continue ignoring these needs and to encourage ministers to take action on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. Mr. Chairman and Minister, the answers. Children are being spoken of as being too bright, and the educational system is not trusting. If I've heard a minister right, he'd like to move it to the school. Not all schools are equipped to tell that many of them are. I ask: Who, then, is it within the school who should perform such an analysis according to the minister's opinion or who can imagine that it will simply be moved out to the community service? Or how should this be done? I think it's also part of the explanation that the pressure in school has been so intense because students have had a lot of problems that often work out without even going directly to the analysis. However, there is a lack of a multidisciplinary team, both within the school and also for health care families. Because there is also a health minister here, it is appropriate to mention what we have discussed over the years, both mental health issues as well as other problems with treatment options that have not been present in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u72	A respectable president. Thank you again for the verbal vendetta, my ass. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir. She's always got her finger on her pulse. I know these matters well from my former career as director of the school. I also know that there is not a simple answer to be found since procedures in analysis procedures differ, e.g. Only within a unit, and much less a national one. I encourage it to the highest. The social and equality minister to investigate early intervention and including the Breinholt model focusing on a whole-scale intervention in which a multidisciplinary team is initiated with work around individuals and their families during the analysis procedure. Often, the result of the final analysis is that it is not necessarily needed, since the intervention was so rapid and professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. The foreground for this good query. I agree that it is very important for me to strengthen the school itself in having the possibility of professional diagnosis as early as school stages. I'm thinking about like dyslexia, who has been dependent on a lot of people at school, more often than not boys, and may have caused the person to have no skills, abilities, and simply the courage to continue studying because he has dealt with dyslexia and may have been recognized far too late. I think it was so important to identify dyslexia alone as soon as possible at school, and that it can be helped that it can be identified in those schools by professional assistance and that schools are built financially.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and the highest. Minister for the answer. I must admit, though, that I find the decision to increase the budget to shorten the waiting list for analysis to determine the results of the previous analysis. I understood the best. A minister so that the waiting list would have been shortened by about 100 individuals. I would have thought there was an excellent diagnosis on what the project was doing, what we need more? For me, this is a dual, one of the more money to deal with the emergency problems of the waiting list and the other to deal with the suspected system problem if it is present and undergo a permanent system change. Both are necessary, but there must not be any waiting to address the emergency problem of initiating a massive review of the system. How we must want to be careful and built permanently!
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u75	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for bringing up this important issue. There's been a long wait here and too long to wait for too many children in trouble. We're experiencing a lot of pressure in school, a change in society from what used to be. We're going to have to deal with an emergency problem, so I'm happy to hear a minister's answers about the planned plans for that subject. What I wanted to do here is a question of more prevention, we need to talk about more cross-cutting work on teamwork involved in the school schools. The schools are filled with talented and good people who are fully able to pursue a basic analysis that could help people. It is shocking that schools have to wait for specific analyses and to be dependent on financial contributions to continue helping people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u76	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank you for this good discussion, the good tips as well as any. Councilmen have joined the debate and the highest. Social Ministry for the answers he gave. It is true that the answers were given in the highest. Social Affairs, we need to work on the systematic problem in this system that children need a special diagnosis, that it needs the heavy waiting process so that they can get financial support in the school system. It's a pain in the ass. Then there's what's very hard to see, sometimes children with a variety of problems that go into the grey area all over the system, maybe with four, five, different analyses, but they don't challenge those criteria so that the balance fund's rules will pay off with the individual into the system. These people get a little out of there, so I sure hope that when we've won as soon as possible--and I'm asking the highest. Social minister whether this will be done soon, since the need is greater, that is a real emergency. I certainly hope that the chances are increased that those children who have fallen into this grey system can be helped when we have started a multicenter job that is so important and are, of course, in school as well. I'd like to also remind you of the importance of cross-cutting groups and tars. As a professional professional in school for several years, I personally have found it extremely important that parents, professionals, and a multilingual team of professionals meet and discuss how they have conducted a particular period of time and how to proceed. This will do a great deal of good to see how your child's feelings will go from there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator once again before this fine discussion. The point of the matter is, in fact, that we narrow children through some systematic analysis so that they follow funding. At the same time, however, we are placing a formal recognition of their inadequacies, which may be quite minor, but with them all the way through school. The vast majority of these children need minor assistance, but they still need to drive through a formal route. You don't have to do that. It is already being carried out in the city of Reykjavík as to how we can reduce these references and take this into consideration in other ways. We have developed a very professional and powerful elementary school and nursery. They are fully able to handle much more of this analysis than they do today. This also requires cooperation with the rural communities to ensure that the financial support is immediately available for management, does not have to wait for formal analysis, and then can be directed to the level of force we have in the state's analysis and counselling centre and other institutions to the children who really need assistance. That's what I think this is all about. The fact that we are not spending too much time in an analysis and what has been going well is, of course, a combination that we need to understand better. What can we accomplish by subtracting a number of references, thus using more fully the funds already available, and to what extent do we really need to add? That's what this is about. I assume that results from this analysis should be available soon. How important it is that we do better in these matters, and I thank you again for the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u78	V.E.G. President. A few months ago, we talked about what happened. Councilmen one of several priorities. Councilmen, called a liquor bill. There is no need for many to comment on the fact that there are conflicting opinions. This bill has also been approved by the General Assembly, but there is also a difference of opinion among people in society on the importance of it. More recently, a major part of the country's survey is in favor of the bill. It's also the case when you review the review of your drinking bill, i.e. when in the material process here during the last terms or during the last terms, there was a lot of conflicting opinions in the subject. The review of the comments shows that health and sociology professionals are all aware of the agreed bill, but many business- and services-related members believe that the bill will be agreed. You can only ask, " What interests are being cared for in this regard? ' I'm not gonna decide, but these reviews make you think. When a bill was reimbursed in the winter, the surgeon's office repeated its stand on the case and in its resolution, according to the President's permission: It is likely that alcohol, which leads to an increase in alcohol consumption, will increase the frequency of individual and social problems with larger social costs. Social effects may include increased distances due to illness, theft, a lack of security from alcohol, accidents, and violence. It shows that it is important to examine the overall picture and to guide health measures before two of the three most active prevention measures in the World Health Organization are removed, i.e. limitation of alcohol and the prohibition on advertising. In addition, the management of Iceland's cancer community has concluded on the subject of the bill. It also says, by permission of the president: ▪ With the bill, access to alcohol is being suggested to increase dramatically as a family problem, social costs, health problems, and the pressures on the health system. Increased marketing will lead to the same. A number of health and social sciences, as well as Society organizations, have given good and practical evidence that such a practice would be bad for public health. For decades, the World Health Organization (WHO) has proposed to its member nations to work progressively to reduce the total consumption of alcohol. A decision that affects alcohol cannot be made on the grounds of normal consumer products. So I'm going to ask the highest. Health Minister if he will agree with you. The position of a surgeon, whether he agrees with them, and the conclusions of the cancer club. Does he have the same concerns as those conclusions? In addition, I ask if he believes the alcohol bill is in harmony with the government's health policy. [[The president calls.]] I also ask him, "System of the highest." Health Minister for the bill or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The question of the senator is twofold, as was shown in her speech at the end of the talk. On the one hand, it is asked whether a minister believes that the CDC, 106th, is in harmony with the government's health policy and whether the one here supports the bill. The present bill is similar in many ways to a bill that has often occurred before, at least During the years that the one present has attended a council, and in those cases where the matter has continued, the attitude has been similar to that of now divided into two groups, let's say, with and against, in the community and also in the council, and when it comes to reports such as hell. A senator pointed so nicely earlier. I think it's important for me as a health minister to consider the issues of what the bill looks like now, i.e. The bill before reviewing the narratives and possibly making changes to the bill as used last time and I think it will also be the most likely when a similar bill was introduced, since significant changes were made on the bill. It affects my attitude toward it. I've said publicly that I believe that the bill, since it has been written, should be signed, it will receive reviews, both from the public, from the health and social services, also from trade and service agencies, etc. and that we'll see how the bill goes forward before you give up your final position on it. Special emphasis is given in the government covenant that the future should be reduced to direct and indirect costs for the entire community by promoting the work of prevention and public health. The Treaty also states that there will be a health policy that combines and trusts health care, improves human health, and contributes to the health of the people of the land. It is quite clear that there is a tremendous increase in access to alcohol's inability to conform to public health policy. The first policy objective of reducing access to alcohol and other alcohol sources is to reduce access to alcohol and alcohol abuse. In this relatively new direction, it is stated that one of the most important measures to reduce harmful effects and problems with alcohol and other drugs is to limit access. On the matter of bioavailability, I would like to point out that bioavailability is not only material, bioavailability in stores, the extent to which alcohol is available for sale, or how close between stores, bioavailability is also about display, advertising, opening time, follow-up, and how they are followed, and perhaps especially the prices. Therefore, I find it important to point into this discussion that it is noteworthy that Iceland has been successful in achieving good results in reducing the alcohol consumption of children and young people at the same time when shopping costs have increased. This has been done by successful and progressive paces in prevention, but it has also been controlled by costs and other factors. I think it's very important to aim for these public health concerns, that they are based on reliable research on effective mechanisms to limit bioavailability. I know it's a bit confusing, but I look forward to having a good discussion here, and I'll put it through better in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u80	A respectable president. It's interesting to hear the highest. The health minister reads in terms of public health policy that the increase in bioavailability is not compatible with the policy, but at the same time he does not consider it to be in line with the fact that this case has been subject to a legal practice, that the minister of the health - care professional is on top of the whole medical staff, all specialists who have expressed themselves on this matter of increasing access to alcohol. I would have expected, Mr. President, that here the Minister of Health would have stood by his people rather than the um-a and a-a-do this and will answer nothing other than that there should be any political treatment to reveal something, and then it could appear to the Supreme Court. A health minister to the highest health - care agency that has entered the Parliament's affairs, that first the minister can step into a pita and describe his position. I'd like to press on, Mr. President, one short question to the Minister. For example, if advertisements are banned and the arrangements for sales change, as suggested in the bill: What controls will the minister take the initiative to achieve the aim of human health policy in order to limit the availability of those who are not expected to enter this product as expected in government policies? How much will that cost? Has the Ministry considered this?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u81	Mr. President. Thank you for your leader and secretary. In my discussion a few days ago, I showed a summary of 87 studies in 12 countries showing a clear link between access to alcohol in commerce and violence, also between prices and the same. The same can be said of the relationship between bioavailability and other adverse social problems. Then I ask, "Can't this scientificly proven public health threat work to the highest degree? " Health Ministers take their stand for current ground sales policy and against the basics of the bill? It is a very simple question and requires a very simple answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u82	Mr. President. I would've been the best. A health minister should be more decisive in this case, being delivered the thirteenth time. V.E.G. A minister has been a senator for a few years, since this case has been under consideration, and I suppose he has studied all the information he has received from professionals in this case. The surgeon general has warned about this, the World Health Organization warned of increased availability as well as all local professionals in Iceland, parent organisations, and others. I find it very sad that at this point a minister cannot show the ability to step forward and establish a solidarity with all these professionals, the public health and the governor's and anti-aggression. I would have liked to see the courage go by the highest level. Minister. Maybe he'll come back to you later. I don't think it's possible to have to wait and see what these same parties say again. [[The president calls.]] In this matter, we know the opinion of trades and entire salesmen. But the other viewpoints are far more important and should be done with regard to the health ministers of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u83	A respectable president. In the Treaty of Government Governments Care for the Future, Independence Class, and Endurance, public health and prevention are greatly developed, including those in the first century C.E.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The future will be established by direct and indirect cost to society all by promoting the work in the field of prowess and public health. I agree with what has been said here. I would have requested to have a clearer answer to the speaker's question about the highest. A health minister supports or fails to support a bill for drinking in a small store. We want to hear a clear answer, especially about all the sources of the person involved in this bill and the ones that have been presented here repeatedly. I also want answers from the highest. Healthcare Minister on whether or not this bill is doing some form of interaction, i.e. whether it is on the side of the governments to make some kind of compromise, where these steps will be a step toward selling alcohol at a small store to serve the Associations of Business and Service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u84	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine discussion, but I wondered when these matters are always being addressed, with the expectation that a minister should take his stand with the institutions under his direction and with the staff that are indirectly under his office. A minister is also a member of this matter and is bound by his own convictions. I trust a minister will take a stand from that viewpoint. Thus, the nature of our administration directive, that is, this hall here to decide what kind of law the country should be, and then it is the proper minister to comply with that law. As soon as I welcome the Minister's introduction to this discussion as well as all this discussion, I would like to be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lisa Lára Arnardóttir for bringing up this important subject that we've discussed a lot in this room. Business and collective sales are completely available. We know them, but more viewpoints and better and deeper information are constantly being developed. Last weekend, there was an excellent interview with a doctor in Vogi, Valgerður Rúnarsdóttir, who is an expert in this field. Now we are faced with a series of 55 - year - olds who have a serious drinking problem. That problem has not been prominent, it has been inside the homes, and it is a disaster. There is a large task, and I encourage all of us to listen to the experts and the people who have the knowledge. I'd like to say that I'd wanted to see a clearer position. Secretary of health in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u86	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Councilmen for their introduction into this discussion. It is true in the case of the highest order. Healthcare Minister, increase the bioavailability of alcohol that is not compatible or is incompatible with health care policies at the highest level. Governments. I also agree with the highest. A health minister says that his response was somewhat confusing. I agree with what you're saying. Senators here have spoken, I would have liked to receive clearer answers from the highest level. Secretary of health. Because it's the highest. A health minister will wait for comments on the matter to reflect on it, and I would just like to tell him that, in very many cases, when the case was presented, the subject repeated to the professionals what it had previously expressed in the earlier contribution of this case, sent back the same comments about the subject as it had before. I read in my first speech the words of a surgeon to warn against accepting this bill. A highly respected community institution is the surgeon's office, as well as his earlier position on the matter. I just want to ask the highest. Health Minister again: Does he agree with the words and worries of the office of a surgeon who asks us all members of the council not to accept this bill? What factors need to be transformed into this blessed alcohol bill that leads a minister to consider accepting it or not accepting it? What are those things that are at the top of the world? Health Ministers other than those we're concerned about and listening to the words of a professional and the surgeon's office on this issue that we warn against its approval?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-06-39.u87	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion, and I want to make it clear that what a minister wanted to say in his first speech was about how the matter was pleasing at the council, not whether new opinions were made in the matter, but contrary to whether or how the Senate approves. Experience has shown that there has previously been a very significant change in similar primary sites. That's the one I'm putting in front of. I reiterate what I tried to say in my first speech; I do not intend to support measures that greatly increase access to alcohol, which can lead to greater costs or higher consumption. It is important to take into account the World Health Organization's guidelines for limiting bioavailability as an effective means of reducing the harmful effects of alcohol. That's why I suggested that access is not merely a form but a variety of forms. A recent letter written by the World Health Organization regional director of the World Health Organization emphasizes that public health issues are taken into account before making decisions in this relationship. I agree with that. Regarding what needs to be changed so that I think the bill is good, it may be primarily that I'm not assured that it will change everything if special stores with alcohol are public agencies or not. At the very least, I am stressing that bioavailability is not increased and that this is how public health purposes are followed. [[The president calls.]] I was also questioned by reason of reason. A senator would know if there was any compromise on this bill on the part of the government groups. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to specifically state that this bill is not a member of the government parties, but it's a Senate bill submitted by many members of Congress. Thank you so much for the discussion again.
