ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u1	The discussions take three rounds, each group ten minutes in the first round, five minutes in the second, and five minutes in the last round. The order of the classes will be this in all traffic: the left movement, the green offer, the independent category, the Piranus, the forwarding party, the restoration, the Convergence, and the bright future. The speakers of the classes will be: For the left movement a quarter green supply, the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, the daughter of James, number 2th. Smoke. n., first round, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, 2nd. Smoke. So, second to third round Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir 6th, That's the north side. The members of the Independence Party are Jón Gunnarsson, secretary of transportation and countryside, first round, Hildur Sverrisdóttir, 8th. Smoke. s., in traffic number two than third round Brumes Níelsson son of 1st. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" Pirata's speakers are Birgitta Jónsdóttir, 3th. Smoke. n., first round, Gunnar Ingiberg Guðmundsson, fifth round. Witchest. "None but third round Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 10th. We're out of here. The High Priests are first round Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, 2nd. Southk., Þórunn Egilsdóttir 5th. That's the north side. "In the second and Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, 6th. Witchest. "In third round. Residents are in the first round of the city of Benedikt Jóhannesson, secretary of finance and economics, Pawel Bartoszek, 11th. Smoke. So, second and Sigrún Ingibjörg Gísladóttir, 13th. We're out of here. "In third round. For the United States of America, Logi Einarsson speaks for the 9th. That's the north side. "In the first round, in the second Guðjón of Brjánsson Brjánnsson, 8th. Witchest. , and in the third, Logi Einarsson, the 9th. That's the north side. For Birta's future, the first round of Óttarr Proppé, the second, Theodóra S. Þorsteinsdóttir, the 12th. We're out of here. , but in third round Nichole Leigh Mosty, 10. Smoke. The path to the program "umount"
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u2	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. It shall be acknowledged that when the current government was formed in January. After a long, tight discussion of government, it was a little like a night at the bar, perhaps keeping on the watch for a long time, hoping for even more entertainment later. But then the government groups went home to a postpartal party that has been associated with other such ones. When the party finally starts, fatigue has reached its upper level, no longer remember the expectations of that earlier evening, people sing, maybe tiresome, not on a beat, some people are a little bit upset about having been at this party and not some other party. And the householder's not at home, at least. not tonight. Is that fair? Think some, at least No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But we must appreciate this first loss of the government by its actions and also by the words of its enemies. There were big cases on the program before the election. A new force was developed that spoke for national law on the European Union, radical changes in marine eco-efficiency and agriculture. Somehow the householder could talk to the restoration workers, but keep his biggest case until later - likely until it was time to call a cab and go home. The marine and agricultural ministers speak of a number of ways in which we value, but they have not yet achieved anything unless they have moved their offices far and wide around the country, which is widely taken by new political parties - in the past, they were called on to visit. And the Environment Minister of the Bright Future is boldly speaking about climate issues. I agree with most of what it says about that matter, but we still have nothing - except a press conference in which half of the government announced that they were happy to work together on climate - and we thought they had already said so in the government covenant. Except now it's not all the government that works together on climates, it's only half. Climates can't stand waiting, and there's a clear view of Iceland's non-carbon share of carbon. The placards that were the main issue of restoration and its chairman were suddenly transferred to the householder, once again, who brought the Federal Bank and revised the money policy to himself, wrote in the letter to the Commission to reevaluate the policy that all would be revised to be within the box of the crown, somewhat like the man who always puts a boring song on the floor to leave the party. And in this case, in the office of the head of the Holvin Society of the University of Reykjavík, what would you do besides draw out the most bold garment you can find in your closet and volunteer for your next available office? Too bad to the top. A secretary of finance who works out a higher cut-off schedule than we have seen in the past against high school did not realize how inappropriate this offer was until the deadline had expired. The expectations may not have been extensive, but there are over 100 cases of government compromise, neither are they demanding much. The introduction to the EEA has been prominent in the council's activities and a series of macropolitic issues have come to the council itself, apart from the government's financial programme. Indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities began by presenting a equally paid witness in America. He had 15 minutes of world fame and had his Viking applause taken for him. Later, the minister brought the matter forward at the council and has so much pressure on them to finish - one of which is rather embarrassing - and it will be taken to 2nd. During the council, along with very necessary minimum legal instruments, this fundamental matter of restoration was strangely ill - prepared when it arrived at the council. However, some very good cases came late into the council, which explains why further work had to be postponed until autumn. These include new laws on the issues of disabled persons and the implementation of chain responsibilities, which actually go much shorter than we left greens feel right and normal. However, the new president of the council has shown that being late is not enough. She has decided that the Council's work program will be followed, setting an important example until the next year. However, the largest government case has been a financial program for the next five years. And so that I don't fully understand the excellent metaphors from the beginning, the conversation over her has been like a party where smokers no longer go sour on the balcony, some are in the living room dancing with Swedish tequila, and still others are engaged in the kitchen. In this case, one says: The plan? It's just a learning process, it's not about a decision, because it's all going to change. Another says, plan? She's standing, but she can't change without what I agree with. And the third one says, the plan can't be changed. That doesn't look good, Madam President. Of course, it may be inexpensive to throw pleasure in the fact that no one agrees in the government. Let us be reasonable, but it is not as if the seven categories that now appoint the Allied Congress agree on everything, but perhaps it is just because of the big conflict line that is getting clearer in Icelandic politics and that is becoming so evident in the financial program. Although there is a debate about the financial agenda at the party, the guests seem to agree on one thing, and that is the big right course that the plan is going to tell you. Because what's the big part of the budget? Yes, it is incorporated into strict financial guidelines that are rooted in the use of free thinking, where all emphasis is on a lower proportion of cohesion. To reduce services to the public without visible goals or benefits for us as a community in Iceland, it means to cut back on public service without visible goals or benefits. Congress officials and Ministers of the greater part speak of a number of different kinds of cases, while considering the share of the gross domestic product, this strategy assumes that it will be drawn together. It is far from meeting the expectations given before the last election, not just by their officers, who are now appointing a smaller section of the Council but also by the majority of members of the General Assembly. This is not surprising, since the plan continues to announce further tax reductions on all the measures that the last government took to weaken the government's income institutions, all in the spirit of the same liberal thinking that is a great responsibility for increasing inequities around the world. What would have to be done? We need to reorganize the tax system. The real misunderstanding is seen in the spread of wealth. In Iceland it is the richest ten percent of all three fourths of all wealth. Maybe that's the way someone likes it. Maybe that's how the government wants it. If we don't want to do that, we need to reevaluate how we deal with capital gains, tax money over certain limits, and Iceland would have to be the leading member of the international cooperation of countries on such taxation. Of course, there is a need to ensure that the profit of this country's resources is reasonably available to the nation. We know exactly what the last election was all about. After the crisis of the past few years, they focused on the restoration of the welfare system. It is our common task to run a powerful health system where patients do not need to improve financial concerns from illness because of overpaying. Unfortunately, there is a financial agenda that will be higher than that announced in the bill adopted at its time at the World Assembly, a health system that is socially run because we do not need twice as much health. The people of the country do not want such a system; they have repeatedly observed that the vast majority of the country's population want to run health systems, well - funded health systems. As a result, all the political parties received a clear message for elections, e.g. with the signatures of 86,500 Icelanders. We are to live up to the prospect of furthering our education, making sure that they can cope with the big changes ahead of us, and enabling all to pursue education regardless of their age. We're supposed to increase the number of students, but we don't reduce them, as government policy assumes, which unfortunately is completely ambitious, almost as if the school case had been forgotten on the way to the party. The only thing that seems to matter is that it shortens the time it takes to provide education rather than the education itself. Of course, we must ask: What has changed since the last approved financial program in which the Ministry of Education was also an independent person, assuming that the funds of the school's shortcuts would enter the system? However, since the last approved program, high school funds are so heavily reduced, with some 1,400 million compared to 2021. What has changed since August last year? Is it the appearance of the new members of the Independence Party? Or did the minister of education just give up? And the forwarding of those who become ill in the community? She wasn't much discussed before the last election. Whether we talk about the pay of disability and the elderly, minimum wage, or unemployment, we are expected to ensure that all who live in this country are suitable and decent. It is totally unacceptable that in a time where only economic growth is spoken of, large groups are left behind, far below the standards that governments feel normal to support. In view of the government budget, Iceland's Institute of Development has assessed that the desperate will receive 288,000 bucks, complete for a monthly wage in 2022. Am I supposed to believe that this is the vision of this government of this group? And the government does not intend to improve the terms of these groups with increased housing support that will be affected each year in the financial agenda. Postpartys are the nature of a case that is very tired when it starts. And the present situation began tragically and will not improve, mainly because the cohesion factor, the glue that holds the government together, is the idea that results will be measured in the reduction and reduction of the combination. It is urgent that we change our thinking about society. Society is not just an accounting that needs to be contained. Society is the foundation of the welfare we want to provide for our people. A covenant is based on justice and fairness, so that those who have the most share more than those who have less share in it. Society is about securing a decent standing, securing equal opportunities for all. The fight for a just society never ends, but we can do so much better. - Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u3	My dear Icelanders. There is high expectations among the people of the country for their increase in prosperity and improved production in the United States, and this is the expectation of a repetitive global economy. Happily, most of us find that after a quick year, the results of a diligent work on the restoration of Iceland's economy are being made to make a full house. Our success is noteworthy, and we find attention in many parts of the world. Strengthened government in recent years has laid the groundwork for success as well as the advantage of external conditions. The improved economy of the nation's population follows the expectations of increased expenses for the various problems. This could be seen in the payment of the last budget, where the cost of the State was increased by 55 billion dollars. has been since the year before, but such an increase between the years between them is unique and unlikely to expect in the coming years. The financial programme discussed at the Council recently is designed to form an estimate of approximately 20 billion annual expansion. There is no doubt that we have been well - prepared for the past few years. Me and the Icelanders are now experiencing the longest period of stability in the history of the nation, which is seen among other things. Because for 40 months in this country, inflation has been subject to the disaster targets of the Federal Bank. At the same time, we have witnessed the most commercial growth in stories over the years. This fine position is not automatic. We can best see that in this regard we stand out as different from the nations we would like to compare ourselves with. Despite this, we are well aware that we still have a measure of land in many areas, and we face challenges in responding to community reform requirements. It is clearly stated in the government's declaration of policy that its main mission is to promote the development of community infrastructure, transport, health and education systems, and a competitive and competitive economy for citizens all over the country. The government remains steadfast in its responsible course, which will provide the basis for an even more economic development than we live today. Despite the favorable conditions and support of the national government, it is clear that the situation in society is very challenging, and the government is awaiting many difficult tasks. Under these circumstances, it is necessary to show the responsibility and management of public finances, and we need to develop false practices in public policies and administrations. If we succeed, we will reap a flourishing time, creating a society that is now opening up a wide range of opportunities for education and for diverse employment activities. Remembering one's background is always good. Looking back, we cannot help but be fascinated by why this small nation in a large, oppressive land has been accomplished. The result is no accident. Iceland is a capable people who have worked hard for their goals, but also because the main policy and vision of the social order here in recent decades have proved to be successful. The light in this way has been the freedom of the individual to say and act that has released the powers that have been infected by them. Having the vision that most people have the opportunity to do secular work has resulted in several parallels in the international industry. The key point of this tour is a policy set almost half a century ago on the practical use of our natural resources. This policy has provided the basis for a more powerful society, one that is more solid than ever. This is what we've done on our own terms. In cooperation with foreign parties as we have been meant to be based on a monotonous business life of high value in the country. Now the foundations are more and stronger. More than half a century ago, the wise decision to activate the fallen waters and to help us with large demanders in the energy industry produced a turning point in Icelandic society. It would have been almost impossible for us to answer today's cry for energy exchange by electronization of the country without its use. Now half a century later, we pay the lowest electrical price known to us in the nations we compare with. This too can be considered in another context, another light. If we look at our cousins in Denmark, where there are nearly 6 million people, or 17 times more people than we are in Iceland, we will be more aware of the initiative that has been set up in this country in years and decades. We need to keep this in mind and be guided by these facts when we consider the future. We are to make our own farsighted predecessor an incentive for a good society of good works to benefit us. No one needs to doubt that the policy here in fishing has proved successful. Since the release of the personal enterprise decades ago, evolution has been in the right direction. With technological advances in both land and sea, valuables have grown dramatically and are now the best known internationally. For years we have debated how to repay this sector above others. However, the fishing route is already paying the highest price paid by several professions in public funds. Now, an attempt to make peace will be started on how much this article is designed to contribute to the drinking process. Let all of us strive to make that peace, especially with the article itself, but at the same time, we should avoid playing with one of our main beginnings in order to serve vague emotional goals. Both fishing and agriculture have been the basis for establishing land on this earth for centuries, but these have changed times. We must look for new opportunities. Building policy has been the theme of independence policy as well as the creation of the country's equal opportunity for action. We independents believe that governments should create a healthy, stimulating environment for the sake of employment so that individual forces can be fully used. A powerful career is essential to progress and the basis for a powerful welfare system. It is a government policy at any given time that determines the direction of the nation. Does she rely solely on her presumption and hold out to save herself as they can, or does she trust primarily on the initiative and energy of the citizens to create an opportunity for herself instead of providing them with restrictions and obstacles? This has been true in Icelandic governments over the years. It is the happiness of this nation that the course was brought on that which really is to be seen. It is the course that motivates individuals. We watch these days of a particular revolution in a Icelandic store. No one has overlooked that a foreign corporation recently opened a store in Garðatown, and another is on the way to the country. This is where I mean Costco and H&M. Even if there is a sound of criticism in the council as well as in other parts of the community, there is no doubt that further competition in a small market would make the Icelandic consumers quite better. Hence, as the preconceived views of critics come, rejoicing and wonder. It's no coincidence that this company is looking into Iceland and deciding to start this business. Here, tolling tolls and goods, which the last government represented, in fact, were criticized here at the General of the then smaller segments, have had a decisive effect. These companies would not be coming unless those steps had been taken in the last terms. This shows that we need to create the scene so that commercial and commercial activities in general can flourish in our country. We need to create the environment that is competitive toward other countries. Another example of a surprisingly shortsighted and political fanaticism is that of a left man in the private business of various or independent operations. This is to be done by means of a number of health functions. What sense is such as. in sending people from private hospitals to replacement operations, so that they can be cared for, at high cost for society, when these measures can be made less expensive in Iceland? We have the responsibility to put the interests of patients first. Is it to put the interests of patients in first place that they need to look to foreign countries for a service offered here by preconceived views? The people of the land want a powerful service, and they get as much money as the taxpayers do for this group of paintings. True, our public responsibilities are high, and expectations at the General Assembly may be higher than we can see. This will be agreed with the transport programmes. A fall is an excellent example of this. We have a great responsibility there. There's a lot about the need to increase the respect of the Generals. There is no need for that. A good start would be to think that the senators had the tendency to be moderate and consistent in the use of language. There is hope that the council will regain trust while it is spoken out and south in some cases. For example, one of the most respected journals in the world's field of health shows that there is an Icelandic health - care system on the world scene. Does this not give us reason to pause in our discussion of health care in Iceland? If the discussion and reviews of many health issues are set, you might assume that everything here is in cold water. It is time for us to stop speaking down, even though we know that we still have unfinished assignments in so many areas. It's all right to criticize, but there's no need to talk everything into the mess. It certainly does not add to the respect of the General Assembly when such voices are heard from this public address. In recent last days, conferences have called on the government's surrender and the election is being announced. Would that now turn out to be good for the nation? All classes tried to establish government in one way or another, one way that does not need to be reviewed. The present government groups met up in a policy that is followed by the success of the previous government of responsibility. On the requirement of government opposition, it is to say that it has never been wise to change horses in the midst of them, let alone try when there is no other horse. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u4	My fellow Americans. Many forget that the law adopted by the Allied Council and that has continued to be accepted year after year can have a profound effect on human realities, on the everyday affairs of life. The law determines how almost everything we do in life is done, what you can do, what you can't, what rights you have and what rights you can take away. Everything new is a new place in the little lawbox. Then let us not forget all these unregistered principles, such as by consultation and competition. The price fixing is among these unregistered rules of a few society, and nothing to do is told me by the same people and is always talking about competition as the anointing of the capitalist machine. These people want to privatize all our shares for short-term profits. These people also want private opportunities for competition to be able to provide better service, carefully supported by your tax dollars. I haven't noticed there's any real competition here. Logical messages with exactly the same offer at the exact same time clearly show that it is and has been an illusion from beginning to end. I've watched the discussion very closely and particularly the experience of Costco among the public. On Facebook, with over 63,000, everyone is helping, price and pictures from Costco and their competitors before and after. It's amazing to see this sudden, increasing sense of consumers and awareness of the power of solidarity that people are learning. The next wave of solidarity and such helpfulness could easily involve salary and pay - related rights, now that many contracts are breaking free. Yet, there is no question that great agreements were formed in protecting the nation's health systems. In the Republic's largest signing list, there was a requirement for the restoration of the health system 15 minutes before election. All units promised to do this, and yet the government, as it matters after election, doesn't matter. After all, the nation has repeatedly rejected personalization in the health system. It is very important to continue developing, particularly because of the many signs that we are in a dangerous place for economic infection, a vaccine that had a very positive effect just after failure, but the negative effects of the school is beginning to develop. It is the nature of the vaccination economy that it usually resolves either with economic instruments or, as we know it, with a bang. Vaccinations may also include abscesses and abscesses, some of which have to be punctured and cleaned thoroughly with disinfectants. Vaccinations also tend to come back and forth again if nothing is changed, and now we are in the place where what had a wonderful effect on a short period of time is causing significant damage to the future, and nothing can be done but prepare for it to explode and what we can do if it does. I'd so much like to do something exciting about you, be ready for this pox thing that will explode with the chest of ideas and interpret that a better society if everything collapses again, as often happens in Iceland. You see, democracy requires vision, compassion, and poverty, and no one has ever received a right without effort. A real person's rights required a conflict and solidarity that often took decades to achieve it. New democratic tools that have already been developed wait for us to pick them up. All we need to do is start over and over and know that practice makes perfect. We found the dirt, we were teeming with life, and a new Iceland was right over the corner and we're still waiting. It is so that we Pirats want new soil because the root of corruption cannot be eradicated by scrambling to the surface. But I understand and respect the profound fear of change. You see, change is uncertainty and uncertainty is sometimes debilitating and unpleasant. No one learned how to swim by practicing the swimways on the river bank. You can only learn to swim properly in the water that is as deep as this one, but it's a mess. We Pirantar's system changes in the process of elections, we showed by action that we dared to go beyond tradition, called after binding agreements for elections to what they could work together after elections. Sadly, though, the call did not respond to all the groups offered for consultation. It takes courage to show what reality is when compromise is the only option for multiclass administration. The media that voters have the right to know in advance. I think we'd have a better government if we had walked by and the others would have dared. Not that many would be disappointed, as always will be after the election. But the Piranians wanted them, and they still want to be free and secure health care for everyone, regardless of their estate, they want to stop health and education, transfer dental and psychological services into the social security system, stop punishing sick people, want to experiment with civil pay, and shorten their days. Pirantics wanted and still wanted to legalize the national lawsuit and initiative rights with a new constitution, increase the entrance of the citizens to the decision-making of the community by active democracy, establish the EU national law, support civil rights by individual self-sponsored rights, and strengthen the innovation of democracy by digital solutions and other instruments of the information community. Pirates wanted and still wanted the greatest information rights of the city with transparent administration, open public records, and support the institutions that protect the interests of the common people. Pirats wanted and still wanted to update Iceland with a new constitution because it answers the nation's call for a new community contract, it brings resources into national possession, it ensures important rights, such as the right to best health, it gives the public greater power, thus contributing to effective democracy because it guarantees government responsibility to voters. But this will only change if there is real pressure at the outside council. Just as Costco is pushing the guard down in other camps as an external party, pressure from the public is what it takes to create a more just society, pressure from you on us here at council. Pirats and I are going to use the summer to listen to you, people in the country, and find what's burning on you and unite you. We would like to help prepare the way for your ideals and hope that other groups will join us on that road. The future is a piece of paper that needs your voice and ideal to be real to us, your deputies. Do not be afraid to speak up, for we need some support, and we need you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u5	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. When it is considered quickly, where we go as a society, it is not quite clear what the conclusion will be. It may be that the greater part of the government has it figured out, but I'm quite determined that it is. I'd like to mention some examples: Are you going to raise the value tax in travel services and charge by tourists - or not? Is your health care - or aren't it a private service? How will the government finance transport, roads, or not? How much is the government going to do in the school system? Money markets; dollars or no dollars? What should the financial system be like? These are just a few examples of what the government has been dealing with in the past few months, but no one seems to know where to go. And actually, it's not just that, but it seems that some minister doesn't seem to know where he's headed. I allow myself to mention the highest. Secretary of health. It comes from the mountains when we discuss private access to health care, the laws are blurred, and so on. But what is his political will? Where does he feel it's convenient to go? Of course, I haven't made that clear. Yet, what he has said about this came to pass in an interview with a minister in the days. There he said that there was not necessarily a pivot for privatization in the health system. There we go. He does not take full notice that this is the case. I think it might be nice for a minister to try to figure it out sooner than later if something is happening on his watch that he doesn't care about. It can hardly be viewed as overexcited by a person who speaks of a new method of working on the subject of increased personal contributions from health care, even if in few cases. Madam President. If there is going to be a government service to the Independence Party, you must have the power to stand on your feet. Such a power has seemed to me that the two attachments, the bright future and the restoration, are not. A branch office from the Independence Party appears to have become a branch office from the towering tower. And in the 11 human government, there are six independents, who say, more things at the government table. Not long ago, nine of those serving as ministers were now members of the Independence Party. Although not long into the terms of the election, it seems clear that each one is heading in his own direction, and that leads to the apparent failure of the currency. The crown is the future currency of Iceland, according to prime minister. The secretary of finance, on the other hand, talks down the crown whenever possible. It is remarkable to experience the failure of the national secretary of finance to speak down the nation's currency in foreign lands as a domestic matter. Perhaps his unscrupulous expression of love to the euro is funny in a narrow group of restorations, but I think that even more people are surprised at this behavior. Madam President. There's something wrong with it, seriously, that the secretary of finance should try hard to get here on a currency scheme, which is likely to be completed by the recording of Euro. He says he's worried about the strength of the crown, but he doesn't do anything at all, because he knows he's helping to set up a currency right here, and taking control of his own money will make it easier for the government to take his own money. It must be said exactly as it is, Madam President, that there seems to be a lack of force in the highest. When it comes to such matters, prime minister or it would be nice to receive an answer from the highest level. Minister, if not tonight, whether or not he agrees with the secretary of finance that it is best to do nothing, take up a currency counsel, and sacrifice custody on his own coins. Will the government make any decision in these matters? Yes, it is. The Commission is set up on reexamination of money policy. Will it follow the course of prime minister or financial minister? While directors go to sleep as they go to the gravel, the Sullabra tells us that it has ceased regular wages of currency. If there was a need to buy a currency so far, it is obvious that the need is greater now than ever. It has been reported in the news that it seems that the growth trade is beginning to recover, and I know for sure that there are a lot of people chilling about that news, since they had a lot of business about saying how bad things went in the fall of 2008. The last government had some resources to deal with that kind of business. Madam President. I believe that this must be done much more and with all means try to stop funding from flowing freely to the country with its own national hazard. If there is something learned from the 2008 collapse of the bank, it is that a large flow of foreign money for the growth trade will always catch up with us. Once again, it is all too high that seems to be at the root of the problem. What route is the financial system on the watch of the current government? No more special, I think I'll best describe it. During the days, interested foreign merchants came here and said they bought Arion a bank. From the government's camps, there were shouting voices, and these were the words of real investors on a journey that was betting with Iceland but not against, it was a turning point, a turning point. In what sense is it a turning point for foreign hedge funds, some with questionable and criminal past, to want to gain a bank and drive? Don't humans have self-control? And has the government put it to the bottom of what the financial system in Iceland is supposed to be? Does the government have any idea, or is it supposed to be left to the pedigree of this as well as then? It is, in fact, remarkable to think that the public and the state have been good enough to hit the banks with a huge crash, but it seems that the government does not care what the financial system should look like. And more of the government's accomplishments. The Minister of Education is a private college without a discussion at the General. When he realized that he was going to have an untimely discussion of the changes he had planned, his reaction was that someone wanted to discuss whether to transfer the High School of the Vegetarians into private business. That was quite an amazing reaction. When was the change to be discussed, and who were the ones to discuss it? All of this happens on the watch of a government government that has announced a new and more careful operation and less willing. It's time to stop and ask, "Where's the government going with the education system? Should we discuss it, or is it forbidden? That's it? That's it, isn't Madam President. Government budget is what it is. As in all times, more and more money is missing. But it seems that the government is not going to react because of the lack of infrastructure. Health, transportation, and education still lack billions of dollars to be mentioned. The main thing is to understand that the government wants to speed up personal development in these sectors. It seems her plan is to let the people just pay more for the ministry if they really need it. The nature of the transport minister's compromise is one that best fits in these matters when he says: "If you want more, pay more, and that for a service I think most people will agree that the state should pay and that men have taxes and the expenses of fuel are already paid for. Good citizens of the country. There is another way, one that is taught by a mixed economy. Today's greatest challenge is to reduce growth and contribute to the smooth landing of the economy. There are resources, to form a stability fund that would be used as one economy tool in addition to existing ones, to reevaluate money policies that include it. to aim for continuous growth comparable to that of other countries. Visitors can be set in travel services, coming or leaving expenses, and change the host's fee. It is wise to invest in the interiors of many parts of the country, where there is no peer without blowing into the course of thawing. We are to preserve and build a welfare system in the country for which the government is responsible, which is based on sound employment, new as old. We're supposed to make sure that the community runs the same health system for everyone. Health is not market. The same is true of education. Evenly for study, there must be a state of equality. We're supposed to use all our resources in a sustainable way, including That's how we're gonna help with the climate. There's another way out of the government, that's the way of reason. That's where we want to go. - Thanks for listening. Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u6	Madam President. Good citizens of the country. During these last days, we Icelanders have been carefully reminded of the value of free competition and internationalizations to improve our standard of living. Yet, we see a number of people every day struggling with time, clinging to all old times and curses of change, even though it looks for good. Icelanders were so lucky in the past that political leaders were committed, men who dared to lead the nation into international cooperation with friends nations, cooperation that has benefited everyone. It is enough to mention the membership of the International Cash Fund, but the AGS led us out of the collapse, and NATO, who has ensured peace in Western Europe since the end of World War II. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the European Union through the European Economic Area, which has brought us both to a favorable trade with 500 million society and to accept much of our legislation. I don't think there's a lot of doubt that a currency partnership with the kroner's gang would lead to our exporting sectors, e.g. The software industry, technology companies, fishing roads, and tourism, were far better than they were. Sometimes the physical laws of nature seem to be unchanging in society. Vilmundur the late Gylfason spoke at the time of the watchdogs of power. My friend Kjartansson was born a matter of fate Men: 1, 2. (a) What is the meaning of the Greek word translated "characteristic "? The whales are aggressive, ambitious, and controlling. The goodness makers are diverse and modest. This does not have to be described. For some reason, for a time of mourning and giving, the good - luckmaker thinks: As Platón sees, the oppressor is more oppressive than the oppressor. The people of Iceland said this in times past: The weak who know more. Now we say, "Freckle Man Controls, Freckles Man who doesn't want to change and thinks he knows everything. " He says: "Even if everything is headed for disaster, let us never abandon the course that I have decided to be true. But now we have new times, and I say, " Let's all break free from bondage to the past, and let's not be afraid to think things over again. ' Madam President. It is said that the eye is clearly the eye of the guest. In some ways, I feel like I've been here as a guest in the Council since then. A fall. Although I have watched the General Assembly for decades since then, I have had opportunities to observe and participate in its activities for six months. Little by little, you'll get along with what you already have, and you'll only get your first impression once. There are many excellent things in the council, especially things you can't see. Many audiences may be surprised, but here, in fact, a nice spirit is usually closer. The committees are usually carefully examined, looking for external opinions, experts, and stakeholders, and after careful review is made, usually for the better. There, more and less things work together to achieve the best results. Of course, there are some debates, the nature of the case, but I insist that in the case of committees it is tried to defuse matters and that there is usually a good cooperation. As a minister, I've had to work with the committees where my bills are treated and I've cooperated very well with representatives from both major and smaller parts. At times, conversation at the Assembly Hall is evidently well prepared and has much to offer. It does not spoil the time when a conversation is arranged in a certain way. I can mention the first financial discussion when the second day began discussing the general plan, and the second, ministers answered each for their own party. Even more beneficial would be the discussions at the General Assembly, if members of the Parliament were to develop a rule of action not to speak unless they felt that they had something to offer, not always the time they have the longest, but the effort was made to present their opinions and tips in a clear way. With organized practice, the discussion in this room can be done much more systematically than it is now. There is no reason to belittle the fact that governments, both now and many of them, are putting forth many matters late. This year, the government was supposed to have taken over at an unusual time, but in the future we must strive to arrive at the council on time. I'm not referring to March 31rd, which is the last day for the contributions of a prime project without any intervening authority. A public assembly needs time to consider the matter. Thus, treatment times and planned payment could be fixed so that cases would spread evenly during the winter. The president of the Generals and the chairman of committees would coordinate the work so that work loads would be distributed and not all the primes would be being dealt with during the last days of the council. It would be a pleasure for us senators to adopt such tactics. Good citizens of the country. Our restoration proclaimed for elections a number of key issues, which we stress deeply within our government work. We want Iceland to be a fair agricultural system, which takes both the interests of farmers and consumers into account. We want to make peace with you on a fishing route. We'd like to stop the crown's persecution and put her gang through the coin tips. Few things mess with each other better than the requirement for a regular tax policy and a constant currency. A red thread throughout our allotted language is universal interest in the economy. All those who favor free competition must agree. More than once, this is our slogan. During the sailors'strike, a restoration against the particular tax returns to the sailors. We have great respect for the sailors and their duties, but all are expected to share the same level of taxes. We also want to stop the tax returns for travel. Of course, it is reasonable that the largest article is in the same environment as in other articles. But fairness is not the only reason, for changing the value tax will not only allow an opportunity to reduce the overall rate of taxes, for the benefit of the public, and a slowdown in the growth of the number of tourists to the country. This rapid growth results in the growth of a dollar that threatens the interests of all the exports in the country. A competitive analysis will not be guaranteed by any tax code but by creating a healthy environment for all articles. Everyone rejoices when he or she is successful in traveling, but if she wants to be consistent, she will fight all the selfish interests, including the special interests of her friends. Good citizens of the country. International affairs are now shining in the air. Merkel, Germany's slantist, reports that Europe can no longer rely on the United States. In 2008, Icelanders came to know that we needed help because the United States pushed us away. Clearly, they believe that if the Icelanders turn to Europe, they are not going to turn to it. On the other hand, the European nations thought that we were not on their side. Now the gap between East and West has increased. Obviously, the newly elected U.S. president does not understand the importance of maintaining good relations between the United States and Europe west of Russia. A defenceless little nation needs a solid ally. When the United States passes a pass, we must draw closer to our brothers in Europe. There is no other allies. We Icelanders and I have had the wisdom to reject extremes that have become powerful in many places, extremes that want to close borders, and free trades. In the society's world, freedom, equality, and brotherhood need to be replaced by oceans, privileges, and hatred. Iceland is more equal than neighboring countries, the health system is in the highest order in the world, and after schools, we add a donation to a student of 300,000 dollars. In the financial program that we have here. Good citizens of the country. Remember, though much is good in Iceland, we can do better. So let us joyfully go out into the summer, not fear of making changes in our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u7	Madam President. It is intriguing for a new senator to look back. It was acidifying that the management of structural changes, the righteous treatment of resources, a new constitution, and the future forms of money that would be equal to the standard of living and steady economy. And it was sliding, and at the same time amazing to see groups spoken for elections that would throw their promises into trash in exchange for a few employees in the government. The biggest disappointments, however, are seeing the complete lack of understanding of the government when it comes to preparing us for the wonderful changes that lie ahead of the corner. We must not get caught in any response politics, since ambition is only about minimising damage when the damage is done. Our society is faced with a tremendous technological revolution that will completely change society. The new industrial revolution is different from the first one, now not only will technology replace muscle power but it will somehow remove the power of mind. The artificial intelligence gives machines a previously unknown ability. They're talking, listening, understanding. Don't need human control every day to solve complex and varied tasks that both university and less educated ones today will somehow disappear. Although technology has been in the process of continuous development, there are indications that in the digital, well - associated world, these changes will occur at a tremendous rate, faster than ever before. True, this new reality gives us opportunities for more communication with family, friends, and increased leisure time. It is a great potential for all mankind. The switch between the rich and the poor parts of the world can become more balanced, eco-efficient production and an important reaction to climate. In other words, a peaceful and better world. But this too can be a threat. The changes, losses, and new jobs need to be determined. It is necessary to avoid the profit of such conveniences from the owners of an enterprise. This would only lead to more divisions and may make us unable to support our public service. Education is by far the most important preparation for such a future. The creative thinking and computer skills will be key factors in the development of employment. But nothing in government policy is gonna make this happen. High school, university, and innovations are in no harmony with what would have been necessary. On the contrary, the number of colleges in the United States will continue to amount to a sister's school. A promise that high school can be used because of their shortings was betrayed. In the years that followed, more than hundreds of millions are now being snatched from their shoes, and it has been found that this was a save - save operation, with no plans to improve school activities. However, when discussing short - term study, we may also ask, " Am I tailoring people too tight? ' Is it proper to increase the demand for a career so strong that there is no time to enjoy life, spend leisure time, or experiment in this vital development? Madam President. Similarly, when it comes to health care, the government does not listen to the nation. She ignores 92% of those who want to increase money to the mercenaries and throws wasteers at 86% of those who believe that the health system should be socially run. Official health systems are maintained as money flows smoothly into private business without showing the practicality of such. That's where the tap is open. The government is ready to pay for it when doctors do their own business and send a bill, but public agencies are being arranged. The land hospital has become such a hot potato that the government can no longer hold it. She cannot handle the business, and she sees the sole solution to putting political applications over the hospital government to hide the problem. Despite the fact that much is done well in the nation's medical affairs, the screaming continues to increase in the number of people who cannot afford to seek medical care. Good transport and communication are not just a matter of security. This includes an equation of dwelling conditions and important support for the job structure. It is unacceptable not to fulfill the promises made by all classes. This structure is a great way of considering the small things of the world. It's useful everywhere, especially small companies. Thus, we are most likely to strengthen our country's settlements, to build them strong, solid foundations, and to create life. The stimulus of small enterprises is an unequivocal advantage. The structure is cheap, dangerous, requiring small surfaces, people can work with what they want and build companies up quickly, slowly, according to taste. This business fills people's lives with satisfaction, which is good for family life, which spreads into society and strengthens their habitats. These projects need immediate action and support for international tourism. But the only advice by the government is to sell important and well - equipped units, such as Cheflavík Airport, to finance the structure. In fact, the same nonsense is also expressed in plans for the privatization of the High School at the Day of the Year. The government is not good with the government, it is trapped in old, right-hand chewables that have proved themselves wrong. Because more and more international studies show that more equations are the most successful means to create a dynamic society of prosperity and peace. It is therefore intolerable that the government does not use the tax system and market-related resource expenditures to increase the equation and allow equal access to all. In fact, a financial program claims that taxation is the opposite of freedom. Where does that weird idea come from? On the contrary, sharing creates freedom in most countries. It ensures much of the public's concern over little and meaningful life. However, we could with a more reasonable tax system do better. A better education, less expensive health care, a carefree lifetime night, and so many other activities could be guaranteed. Without the concordance, we too would be badly protected when things happen, as is sadly the case with most people in our lives. It also reveals the most beautiful part of human life: sympathy and cooperation. That is why I object: Tax payment is the most reasonable investment in Iceland. As the land's prosperity increases, standards for what is necessary have changed. Man does not live on bread alone, and we no longer accept having only a knife and a spoon and a safe home. We also need food for the spirit. Hence, governments must have ambitions for sports, culture, and art. Do not view it as some luxury product or leftover size. All youths should have equal access without regard to the economic situation of their parents. Madam President. Together, we'll be on our feet after the collapse in a magically time. More important, thanks to the marvelous sacrifice of the public. Still, too many people are going through it. We're on our way to the valley of the waves, but there are too many of us still in the low plain and have a long way to go. We all need to help each one of us. I don't want anyone to be left behind. But it is painful to know that during one of the longest consecutive stages of the country's economy, the government considers that there is no room for that. Above all, we need to adjust our economic regime in a way that allows us to sail calmer waters. We need to acknowledge that social stability is not the opposite of economic stability but both essentials for a calm workforce. Then we need to discuss national currency policy by means of thought and reason rather than from old pits. We need governments who believe in the power of cooperation and who dare to earn money from those who can easily contribute more to the interests of those who have the right foot and the community. We need governments that use the free market, where appropriate, but which are a tight covering for important public service. But finally, Madam President, we need a new government that has more vision, more courage, more fortune.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u8	A respectable president. Dear General. The rest of you at home are sitting. We are now approaching the end of Parliamentary Times, one of the most unusual things in the past. The results of the campaign in October were vague. There was a great turn on the crates. A historical number of seven classes were elected. The results provided no clear picture of, of course, more things as we should get used to them, so a long period of government discussions began until a new government was formed at the beginning of January. In the meantime, the Generals had approved a budget for 2017 without any clear details. We, in the bright future, shall be elected in October... by a new group that was going through their second elections and surging through the polls. We may not have expected that in advance, but it turned out that we had a key role in making more things for the government. Perhaps a normal position for a liberal middle party elsewhere, but a brand-new position for a Bright Future. We decided to take this responsibility seriously. We took part in a formal discussion with almost every group at the council, but we believe that we have been the kinse to influence, that we have been separated to shoulder responsibility. In the bright future, we are pleased with the emphasis expressed in the government's government covenant. We realize that we're working with different categories, that we don't do everything we can, that we need to make compromises right/left, both between governments, but also with other members of Congress and with members of the General Assembly. Government cooperation has been successful, and the same is true of cooperation during the council. There are many national agreements that are not divided in Icelandic politics. In recent winter, the general council has made it evident that we have the good fortune to enter into divisions in behalf of good things. It's good, and it's not likely at all. Despite what sometimes is heard, the use of Icelandic politics is not entirely defensive. We're supposed to be proud of this. We should use this as an incentive to do better. It's often said there's two needs in tango. This council requires more than that to form more parts and to dance. It's a misunderstanding, but it's well worth it when it's done. During the days, I spent my first annual meeting with the World Health Organization (WHO) as health minister of Iceland. It was a big time and a partial experience, because it's far from probably an international representative of Iceland, and it's just as remarkable to reflect in international context. The Icelandic emissary was sitting next to India, the second - largest nation with all its challenges. In front of us were representatives of the closed and mysterious North Korea and the Congo, who have recently dealt with another Ebola epidemic with success this time. It was inexplicable to compare our books with those that were far and near. While we face major and serious challenges here in Iceland both in health and in other matters, it is clear that in many ways our situation is good, the problems are often overcome in the context and relative solidarities or at least Any peace on a number of fundamental issues. After hearing the views of the 190 representatives, I once again realized that there is no AIDS on health issues; epidemics do not respect boundaries; neither does climate. Increasingly, economic and other aspects of human life do not do so either. A rich, peaceful country like Iceland is not just responsible for itself. Our liberal, creative, and equalistic society has great strength, and in much of it we are examples to others. We should build on what is good and do better. This involves a lot of responsibility. A bright future wants to be responsible. We're not in a race who's been right. We are not in politics to compete for popularity or power in the interests of selfish interests. As a result, we are drawn to working out health and environments and are proud to direct them. Clearly, health issues are the language that the Icelandic public prefers to do. I have stressed working on a broad range of health care policies across institutions and services. The emphasis is on the management of health - care professionals, the advancement of health care, the development of distant health care, and the importance of mental health. People's hearts are intertwined into different subjects. It involves planning, food production, environment, public transportation, school, etc. There's nowhere else to go, though a new hospital building is put on the line. The government has resolved to complete the first stage in the years to come. There will be one of the greatest crisis in Icelandic health for many decades. It is a work to do and a good thing to know of broad support for this building work. Environment is a matter of the future. What we do or tweezers today will be useful or go to the head of future generations. Because of the importance of the climate and the need to work on a wide - wide basis, it is a climate. They touch a lot of people if not most of the cases. There are huge environmental issues, and they are small. It is a joy to see more and more put them on the tip of their age, their residence, and their political parties. The environment and the Icelandic natural world are not owned or specialized by anyone like it or by any one. It's a search for more public interest when we look at the litigation classes. It is sometimes said that politicians rule, and governments act as rulers. In many respects, it is important to maintain that authority and responsibility are two aspects of the same money. Power doesn't have much to do with it. Power is primarily a means to shoulder responsibility. We elected agents are in the public service business. Surely, we are the kin to follow a certain course, to enforce our emphasis. But never forget that our role is to serve the public interests of those who did not choose us. This applies not only to us as members of the government, as do members of other classes. We were here at the Allied Council of Iceland to be responsible, to do good, and to prevent harm. I'm a optimistic man. We do a lot of good work here at the council. We're working on things together. We can do even more. It's not on me. I literally look forward to working more with you guys. Good luck to all of us in our good work. - Good times and good trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u9	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. There is still a government crisis in Iceland. Independence party support groups are in a crisis. Their voters, even their own, realize that they do not interfere with their policies - nothing. They chose to be a member of the Independence Party rather than a socialistic government that had been centered on equality and justice. They promised better health systems, better school systems, that everything would be better. Nothing amateur, said a bright future. However, the way of government reflects everything else, has little to do with leadership and consultation, the way the work is complex, and the decisions are poorly reasoned. Especially was this the case when the minister of finance, the head of the woodlands, suggested a proposal to make financial policy for several years. Then members of the Independence Party ran away one by one, and eventually the prime minister himself, the chairman of the Independence Party, became skeptical. The minister of finance, who is not fully supported by prime minister, is not a minister of finance, is something completely different, and looks like a beach. So it is still a crisis of control. We have repeatedly received confirmation of all of this small - scale council. Only the Ministers received support. The independent party is in control of what they want in this fruitless enthusiast; there was nothing to sacrifice in terms of contracts. A group of green greens in the winter, as during the last term, emphasized the solidarity and cooperation of all the political groups. At the same time, we have held the class's policy in all legalities. We have made requirements for urgent health benefits and have shown how they can be financed. We have suggested extensions of birthworm and how it could be financed. We have exposed the organization of the Independence Party's organization to schools and culture, pointing out ways to nurture both. College work must be enhanced, research and innovation have to be developed to support the growth of employment, and we have provided suggestions for transport reforms to cope with the wars and the growing stream of tourists. The Independence Party has been in the national government for five years without ever mastering the problem. You see, independence does not control society, infrastructure, and commercial challenges. The natural pass is their source of surrender and becomes a constant reminder of their impotence at changing times. Reasonable taxes, the key to civilized society, are tasks they cannot handle and cannot solve. Incoherents are increasing, and the most urgent solutions are waiting. We can list one group after another, we can name them all, everywhere we face discouragement and inactivity. Even in foreign affairs, contributions to development are a disgrace to the high level of shame and to the government. Our proposals for the left green are clear, grammatical, responsible and financed. This is because there is money in their society that is the highest in society, and we have shown ways to get it. Left greens are on the offensive because our vision is clear and because our vision is credible. We also place great emphasis on a strong and perfunctory hold during the council. We want to fight the government's starving policy, dangerous personalizations, and increased inequities. We want to maintain that the government is based on a smaller part of the vote, is weak, and is not authorized to represent fundamental changes in society against the common people's will in the country. A bright future and a restoration chose to give over to the Independence Party far greater authority than he had for its own. At the moment, it is clear that restoration does not get any of its policies going, it gets nothing, it doesn't change agriculture, it doesn't make waterfronts, it doesn't get nothing on currency - nothing. Everything's heading for a classic campaign fraud. A bright future swept into a last - minute assembly at the promise of a new market agreement, but what has become of that? I wonder. A bright future also wants to be well developed in the environment, and it uses as long as the environmental management tools and protections provided in the left administration of 2009-03/2013. That's good. But the environment is more than just a word and a course. Emphasis on the group should reflect handsomely on a financial plan but will not, either on the environmental issues or on the issues of the case, the climate. It's a government crisis. I think it'd be best to vote again. Actually, it's election time in a year. Then there is the opportunity to gather support for the main issues of politics. The election's election plans for the 2018 district election have begun, and there we all want to see the socialism work done on one thing. We need to make a strong move from the election year to year throughout the country to ensure that our rural communities are taking a powerful lead and to free the nation from the current crisis of government. The management parties must be given a thorough reminder in the district elections, all with numbers, if any members of them do not see themselves first. You see, it takes just one person to reflect on that government. It can be done. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u10	Madam President. Good citizens of the country. Me and the Icelanders are used to hitting the world record, at least On the basis of an appeal number, so that the words "per capita" are not the first Latin that most of us learn in life. Like, these days we're like... to enter the world's reputation for shopping at Costco. Worldly values may differ in positive, sometimes negative. Pushing high into overweight children is, for example, A record that we do not wish to have and that we must change. But another almost-the-world record, and a considerably more positive report was made in one of the world's most respected medical journals during the days that told the Icelandic health system the second best globally. A lot of people were talking, and I guess it's understandable. Of course, it does not rhyme with the conversation, nor does it rhyme with many people's experiences. What, then, is the right thing, the assessment, the discussion, or the experience? No doubt all of this has a point. You see, our health system is so much. This involves an amazing monitoring of infants and one of the most long life in the world. The health system is also increasing the pay of doctors, the construction of a new hospital, the use of medical bills, and the recovery of patient funds. We can be proud of these and many other factors. But our health - care system also puts too much stress on the staff of the Land Hospital, too much waiting for action, and there are other things to pick up. When possible solutions to the problems are discussed, it seems that the discussion of fear and insecurity of people allows them to privatize everything, as they are often said. Yet, in Iceland there is an interpolitical agreement on the rights that all live in good health care, away from the economy. I think there's a lot of publicity there for the concept of privatization between private and private services. This important discussion requires that we make clear our use of terms. Private business has been an important part of our medical system for decades, although the service is paid from a common fund. The task now is to ensure that private business works best by public management and to support it in the future. The national budget of the government until 2022 puts our priorities in the interest of health and welfare, but it is certainly our role here to be on the track making sure that money is spent in the best way possible. In a press report on almost-the-world record in the best health care system, a surgeon said that he should be careful to think that this would make everything good. That's right. At the same time, surgeons said that the nations listed by the medical journal are also having some health - care problem in which no one has yet found the perfect system. And it is our present assignment here too. McKinsey's advisory company recently compiled a report on the Icelandic health system, where the red cord is that there is a lack of overall policy and that our system, despite many good things, is inexplicable. It refers to a relationship between quality and cost that are not absolute. Thus, inexpensive systems, costs can be more efficient than the expensive, inexpensive system. It also says that there is a need to clarify the services to be served at the Land Hospital and what to do in a more inexpensive way, e.g. to the medical and private specialist's clinics. The government's financial program has just an earmark of a special budget to go into the sewing of our health systems in this regard, to view the system as a whole, and to make decisions that will contribute to all the necessary aspects of it, whether it is the health care, the hospitals, or the private clinics, to the best working together. In this work the public business must not be challenged, since private business is not to be mentioned, but private business must not be challenged, where the government business is felt through proselytizing. The fact is that the best health systems in Western lands are some of the mixed components of these two, all that is needed is to find the right conformance. We should be able to find the rhythm of how these factors work best together so that each one can enjoy himself in an efficient and practical way, but primarily in the interests of excellent patient service. We're supposed to be able to help find that beat. Why not recall when the nation together reached an amazing rhythm of the Viking rock. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was introduced in her refreshing speech that has long become world famous. We remember that it was a complicated rhythm at first and that we needed a little harmony, but we finally got it - except, of course, Magnús Magnússon. It would be great if we could achieve such a rhythm and a meeting on the health system and the soccer team then. And it may be a key factor in allowing all players to enjoy themselves, using the power of all those who have expertise and the mental powers of health to produce the best of the team for even better results. - I thank those who obeyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u11	A respectable president. Where are we headed now? Where are we going? It was not stated in the terms of the government that fate of the privatization was a debate. In reality, however, the aim is to get first attention to the health system on the basis of wealth and power. The same capital then goes to Leifs Station and licks out. This is not what the government groups offered in the recent elections. The world's interests were greater than those of mankind without shaller. The chairman of the paradise is not going to give bread to anyone. With the money in a purse and a grin in the place of an Jóhannesson, he should think about it. Although the government's crew is new in part, it is old. High to sea, the driver on the bridge is the one who sets the lines. In a recent shipwreckal government, little or nothing is to turn into a government. There is, however, a variation in the control of seawater as well as on land. To the sea, the man on the bridge only runs once. Where are we headed? Where are we going? A respectable president. The workers of the past are now waiting in the gangs of the sick because of not finding funds to build a home for them. Today's microns are so full of cake that there is no hope of finding a roof over their heads. Young adults don't think they're going to find a place to live. The policy marketed by the Council is a special policy. The principal leaders of that course are smiling, being recorded and documented before everyone. But where's the response? Where's the future, Mr. Honorable President? Pirates proclaimed a new vision, a new course, a new trip. We want the nation to go. We'd like to defuse the wealth of the Council. We'd like to bring the government of the country into the public bathroom for the benefit of everyone. We're going to give the nation access to the resource. We're going to collect for that full price. We are going to get a new health system, free of charge, and financed. I started my political career in order to fight for a righteous fishing system. One of the priorities I've put on is receiving a constitution of resources. I want to bring the ownership to the people, to the people. All of this is in a new constitution, the constitution of the people that politicians stole, snatched from you, my dear Icelander. Good Icelanders. Our ship is guided by the same people with the same reckless course and sailed them to the sea nearly ten years ago. They've learned nothing. Blinded by the whale - driven tourism and the same old tactics, where the people are not allowed to go. But history tells us that what goes up eventually comes down. So I'm going to finish my speech on a poem by President Steinar: Winning the World is like playing cards With a wise face, and with a nose. (And everything with joy) is kindly placed at stake.) And though you lose, it doesn't matter, Because it's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u12	V.E.G. President. The good people of the country. It is right at this point to look back and look across the path. In many ways the situation is bearable, but have we been walking the road for good, taking advantage of our opportunities in an exemplary way? The new government proclaimed new practices, increased cooperation with smaller parts, huge efforts in health, schools, transportation, and I don't know what. In fact, the chairman of the Relations went so far in his reformal conversation that he wanted to set up a team of workers for improved work at the General Assembly. In view of experience, it must be taken into consideration as to any other matter of humor from the highest level. Minister's coming. The Treaty of one of the greatest rights of the Republic of History was then introduced in mid - January of this year. What do we find there? It's a little bit. There, the phrase is used to waltz the keyboard, to look at the other one, and this one. A promise seems to have come to stress. For this reason, at the end of this council, it is of interest to consider the steps of the administrative parties. Such discrepancies as ministers and senators are such that as the youth said, they have no fun at all. Prime Minister and secretary of finance are sharing in the foreign media. The head of the State Department and the secretary of State are repeatedly arguing about Iceland's policy in foreign affairs, which has been imprisoned to increase confidence in international activities. The committee of money policy has been set up, and the crown is set up as the country's future currency center, which is a problem with financial ministers, as it is well known. A seafaring commission was set up, and no one knows what it will do. In short, this means that there will be no decisive system changes, as the Reconnaissance promised before elections. V.E.G. The secretary of transportation appears to be on the way out on one road. He did a little bit of a special hand on a transportation program, since he seemed to shun the council by setting priorities just by himself and by being alone. Good call, chief. Minister, this is what we need to work together. There is no reconciliation, not in here, not within the board and not within the sector. This is because an increase in this time point is most likely to occur outside the country. Do people really think that the same thing about large hotel chains in the capital and small accommodations in the country? I must ask, Where is this government going? Madam President. Economic interests are above the interest, the secretary of finance in a new article. That sounds beautiful, and I think everybody agrees. The reality, however, is not always so simple. Is it not a matter of public interest to keep the country inhabited? Our efforts to do this have been pointed out to the advance by means of, e.g. the tax system to balance facilities. This was an analysis of the last development plan, which was so good in January but has not yet been seen in the council. There are special interests in Norway and Sweden, where governments are motivated to keep their countries in their habitats, including the United States and the United States. taxable motivation, i.e. that those living in cold areas, rural areas pay less taxes than those near the capital? For food production in Iceland, it is important to keep the country inhabited. That certainly does not happen on its own. We need to think beyond our present government. That's why we have the advance team, including the rest of the group. proposed a concierge proposal for policy on the grounds of the state. Their management and utilisation are important to the industry and are part of solidarity. We have also provided suggestions for increasing rural income, but they call for a stronger income base. During the last term, it was conditioned that the state, rural society, and capital capital should work together to shape regional policy and parishion plans. I'm convinced that the law will contribute to the more targeted structure of the country, but then the plan needs to be performed, and we're waiting for it. In view of the difficulty in putting matters past the top. Governments have brought forth many excellent ideas and leads to improvement. At the outset, we conducted a health plan because it had a high level of appeals. Health and education are important factors in the provision of equality. That these factors have not been sufficiently considered. - Happy summer and good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u13	Madam President. I often wondered how others see the work of a senator. What do children think a senator does? Firefighters have helmets and hoses, and they're putting out fires. Policemen are following a gangster. But what do members of Congress do? A response to that question can be found in a well - known Norwegian children's literature. I'm talking about the Mominies by Jansson Tove. The fine books contain one politician, even a senator, although at first they are not obvious. This person is obviously a senator for Mumindal. Why? Because he says he's from Mumindal, but he's never really in Mumindal. It's a Snúður, the one with the green hat. In the summer, the Snúður Valley is often turned. He meets people and speaks in a lofty way about ideology, property rights, government boundaries, but he does not perform much. And then, when the days are shorter, it disappears. The character of Snúður is actually based on a real senator. His name was Atos Wirtanen, a Finnish socialist and friend of Jansson Tove. When I read the Mominies as a child, I was admired by Snúður's character in Polish. The Snúður was cool - and now we have to Snúður more in common than I thought. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I realize, though, that we Snúður be turning to be less unlikely members of a group. Snúður is a left anarchist. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This government here would hardly be found on his authority. According to a test that I took on the public website of the Muminies, and don't lie the Internet exams, Madam President, the person I most resembled is the Muminpabb. Of course, it was a shock to the self - image of a young man, Madam President, but it was probably just right. Although we Snúður likely not have been in the same category, we do have a view that borders should not be a problem for people. People are supposed to travel abroad, sit down, work, study, or just experience something. One of the basic focus for the development of the last election was that Iceland was open to people from all over the world. I confess that I have been unable to make such matters fast enough during this council. We have mainly been fixing the obvious faults of new foreigners. In fact, three prime products were put forth, all of which would have included certain legal rights for this class, the basics of the prohibition against discrimination within a labour market, as well as for the nonpolitical bill. But none of them became law, unfortunately. In fact, the Senate's bill of restoration for the promotion of foreign citizens was well received and therefore referred to a government for further development. I trust the government will continue to win the case and finish it sooner than later. But the land continues to be shut off from countries in the southern part of the Balkans or from other countries outside of Europe. On the contrary, those who intend to move to Iceland have to rely on a system they don't plan for regular transport. This needs to be done, and we're gonna make sure it's done. Madam President. While restoration has been successful in recent elections, it must, of course, be admitted that the results are part of a larger trend in the Western world. In many places, similar groups are organized, well - organized, international, and liberal groups. Macron won a successful victory in France. In fact, news is that free democrats have become an alternative for German hippons. Then there's something big going on, because everyone knows that the German hipsters know what they want. What's happening is that people are sending polite but specific messages against the rise of extremeism and isolationism. There, people can rely on us in Paradise, people can be sure that when the national dish knocks on the door with its message, we will meet him and say: "No, thank you, and:'Bye, goodbye, but firm.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u14	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Ours in Iceland, it's all out there. No matter where you look, the spirit of greed is at its height. They also win well in the community. The profits of the government as well as the enterprises are at maximum. A job situation is good. Yet, under these encouraging circumstances, there are economic problems. It comes to mind first the unstable little currency, which, like a butterfly in a refreshing Southern theme, is spreading up and down. This "gift " is a concern for the government of the United States. Their attitude toward the crown is similar to that of Don Kíkóta in the battle against the windmills: denial and loss of reality. It is only because governments simply lacked knowledge, prominence, or the courage to deal with the problems that continue unsolved, a problem that alone brings untold expenses to the inhabitants of the land. On the other hand, astrologers proclaim a practical way to benefit the common people from the financial resources resulting from money. In economic good weather, the power of money in the country, the elements that are ruling in a Icelandic society, is becoming more and more vulnerable. We are reminded of the sadness of the great shock and humiliation that the nation experienced some years ago when the national sink was sailed into the sea. That expedition led the Independence Party with its disastrous crew. And yet they beat their breasts as though there was no tomorrow. Finally, once the boat is removed from the shore, and successful sailing will be restored to the old sea maps and will lead the way. It must not be tolerated. It will only be averted by the removal of this government of the governments and by the adoption of a well - being government for the proper people of the country. A respectable president. The good people of the country. The ruling powers now count the right time since the collapse. That the money of the Icelanders who are still sheltered around the world is now given work, money that disappeared without a trace at night from land with the help of masked men. Now most for sale, alcohol camps for privates, banks, Keflavíví airports - uploaded goods, a good idea of selling road butts and colleges as well, and then, of course, the best pieces of health care, except what. All of this is a golden deal. The red carpet has been rolled out for the ones waiting in line. They have not forgotten the Shiman sale that would speed up the construction of a new land hospital. Don't people still remember what happened to the rural communities who gave in to free mind and sold away most of their property to rent them back? It would be far more beneficial to use the money for building, but not to have it in property, as it was said. That would be old-fashioned. Most of these rural communities were exposed to financial dangers. Now the same mantran's got it all over again. As we look at the development and progress of people, let us be on guard against delinquency, remembering that no group has cost Iceland as much by economic depravity as by an independent party. I mentioned above that there was an introduction in Icelandic society. At the beginning of the summer, the land's population seems to be lightened, at least to a considerable degree, its trade and trade problem. Society benefits all things, the wealth of the state, and a table for food. This strengthens us to stand close to each other in a course that will lead to success. Doesn't the government understand? At the expense of those who have been divorced for years because they were so hard to deal with? No, I'm sorry. And how we act is a disgrace. Astrologers cannot enjoy the same condition; we insist that the issue be returned immediately. In recent years, young families have constantly leaned on them, making it more difficult for them to live in the best interests of life and to raise their children, the scepter of the future, under secure circumstances. The government's financial programme will continue to reduce the cost of child reform, as was the case in the time of the previous government. During that time, 12 thousand children's families became infants. The number of people who live will continue to increase in poverty and riches. We're halfway close to the rest of the North countries in this respect. The same is true of maternity. Government personnel have no understanding of the need for action, either by raising maximum pay or by extending their birth certificate. The elderly still sit at a garden, and the most income - rich groups live in an unscrupulous condition. In 2019 C.E., unrecognized disclosures are given about the relief in the poor's interests. In the meantime, they enjoy complex, opaque rights, a group that stands very palaces. All in the community can live in financial security, and that opportunity is open to all of our citizens. It's not a dream, we can afford it. This is a matter of emphasis and priorities. Good citizens of the country. It's important who's in charge. It matters who we are in charge. Sadly, those who are now in charge do not sense the day or the road, the ideal family, the tenants, the elderly, the desperate, do not sense the nation's appeal for change, the increase in equation, justice, and reasonableness. A respectable president. I believe that the nation, all the people, deserves a better government than we do now, a government that is promised to be a success in welfare but will not betray them. In the hope that the light before and the outcast will do good to the rulers, that they may have their way, and that light will come before them, and I will wish them good and joy all the inhabitants of the land this summer. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u15	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Now the end of this assembly, a council where a bright future has worked in the government with the restoration and independence party. In the bright future, we realize that our health and environment issues are not easy, but they are important. We take that challenge seriously and with a great deal of responsibility. Health matters are priorities. Civilians want to promote the health system, they want to reduce the patient's charge and raise the budget. We're on that way. I will allow me to be optimistic about our meeting for the construction of health care, that within a few years we will have the Land Hospital under one roof, that we will expand our nursing homes, provide health care, improve our mental - care facilities, and provide a clear and effective health policy that includes the people's request and demand for a good health care. In this work, we remind ourselves that following our convictions, preaching a vision, trusting people, listening to reason and information, standing on your feet, and carrying responsibility requires courage. That is what we will do in a bright future. There is something else I would like to discuss here and not only health but also environment. That may not sound important, but in my opinion it is one of the most important economics in the future. It has to do with our children, our older citizens, our opportunities to be active in society, and it has to do with the quality of our lives. At times, older citizens are discussed in a way that gives rise to problems. I don't think so. The challenge is good people's health and quality of life for older citizens, that older citizens have a choice for the services that are convenient for each individual. People's health is not a matter of personal state and community life. It must be a cooperation project for all of us. In the public setting, I also want to mention specific matters of mental health. All too large a group of young people have mental problems that impair their quality of life, taking some lives. That's what needs to be changed. Losing the lives of young people who have a future is totally unacceptable. Already there has been an attack on health care ministers for increased mental status, including mental status. with a growing number of psychologists in the health care of the capital area. Health care has responded by training nurses and promoting multidisciplinary activities within the medical community. In a public sense, I also want to talk about the environment. The climate is just one of the greatest challenges mankind faces. Besides our own right to attract clean air, whether it is in the Southnes or in the capital area, we need to do much better in climate matters. We need to respond more quickly and to set the goal of being on the lead internationally in greenhouse gas emissions, at the head of nature protection, and in adapting to the future cooling economy. We are to be the land to which other nations look. As we have already said, there is no longer any compromises for contaminated industry. That chapter of Iceland is over. We have now begun many important projects, such as the Government's collaboration programme for the implementation of climate change programmes. For example, the middleland metal has been put on top. We realize that if something is going to happen in Iceland, we need to be environmentalists in all categories. In climates, we need a broad order that wants to put the environment first. In this country, the construction and construction of large industry have been justified by the better use of our sustainable energy in our Icelanders to build such factories on the land, since they were otherwise coal - powered factories in foreign lands or factories that used more polluted energy. Why do we make the Icelanders take the black wine willingly? We've also heard the argument that we're so lenient that we're not going to be in the big context, so we can be environmental. Of course, we should take the lead in showing honor to other nations. We have every opportunity to do that. Good Icelanders. A bright future will go ahead with fine examples and will help us to build trust in cooperation and cooperation, for together we are stronger than each of us. This is not just in relief teams and in families; it is true of the community. - I wish you all a happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u16	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Can happiness and well - being be rewarded? This question looks to the mind after a long discussion on the state budget of the right government during the past few days. Can money be appreciated for the way our children feel at school or for our parents in aging institutions? Should we use some kind of algorithm to tell us how a child feels under the circumstances of not being able to attend a birthday party or how older citizens can enjoy life in aging institutions after giving a lot of work to the community? What about the poor and low - paying people who can support themselves? What about young people who can't get a roof over their heads? Does it really matter? Of course, all of this matters, and that's why we've suggested left greens to meet the appeals reported in the community and all classes praise elections to improve the quality and build wood, promises that the government groups are now on the run from the left green. You see, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, it's not about a percentage, you know, if you know what I mean. Our role at a council is to protect people's equal opportunities, children as well as adults. It is human rights that we have committed to enforcing, especially those in a palace, to be wronged, or to some form of discrimination. The present government does not demonstrate that it emphasizes the equation, but it is likely not surprising. The health issues, whether in large hospitals or in minimal service in the country, the transport issues on both roads and the predatory international flights, the law, the school affairs - all of this is the end of the budget, the right control, and the one acting as such. The wealthier people continue to be spared their tax payments, and less and less are involved in the combination. Iceland is a prosperous society, and it should be a priority to increase the equation among us and to promote equality, that all can enjoy the welfare system, that all who want to pursue education, that all have real options for living, and those who can contribute to it. We should not take it lightly when the Independence Party says that there is no more room in the economy, that there is no money to keep up with the campaign plans, to build up the infrastructure, and to nurture those who have that shit in society, or who have to give up on health care because money does not permit it. When if not now, in baloney sweets? Good citizens of the country. The distinction within the government is obvious to all, and a national budget is one of its manifestations. In this regard representatives of the greater part give an opinion that postpones decision making on the fundamental financial frame until the fall, attempting to sweep the differences under the rug. They are not behind prime minister and secretary of finance who place their credibility to the bet by not compromising the decision to increase the value tax on travel, as noted here in the highest court. Secretary of finance earlier. Of one thing, however, the government of the Independence Party, the Restoration and the Bright Future agrees to increase personalization and reduce the amount of cohesion. Together, they go on starving the public system and weaken to make room for the multiplicity of management techniques, as they will be told. The minister conceals the members of the Parliament's Committees of Projected Personalization Plans and ignores conversation with those involved. It is, in fact, frightening that the government will be allowed to operate uninvolved during the summer, for who knows what will be left over for the summer. My fellow Americans. We need a new government in this country that will take human rights and their responsibilities in order to provide people with equally serious opportunities. We don't need a government that follows the lie and has such deception, a government that hangs out for power. If there is a real desire to build a just society, we are united in putting the welfare of the children, the oldest citizens of the land, the desperate ones, and those who put their lives first in life. So I tell you, my fellow Americans, it's very important to put this right government aside from time to time we have to stick together and we need your help, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u17	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. As has been the last time, my fellow members who spoke before have taken away my entire speaking period, and I agree that this is the counsel taken to maintain a reasonable level of calm in this hall. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm not going to talk about how good we are in the greater part and how weak you are in the smaller parts. I'm not gonna do that. But I'm only going to talk about ourselves, politics and politicians. I've experienced it, as you may all be, that we're not fighting against the public. I've been thinking a lot about why it is, as awesome as we are. And how do we fix it? I don't know, but I'm sure we won't fix it by going to the community services and hearing what the loudest ones say there. I think we'll fix it by having good ideas, good thoughts, logical ideas, and nothing worse to have a vision for the future. We need confidence to promote these ideas, to be persuasive, to lead, and to deal with them. We need to have opinions, even if someone rises up on his hind legs and even if we are told if we have opinions: You are so controversial, you are controversial. I don't think people in general insist on agreeing on everything. I think we can have confidence in people who don't agree with us. I know a good example of this, because I was sitting here at the last assembly with my son Algmund, son of Jónasson. We don't really agree on anything, but I had a lot of trust in him. He was consistent. He fought for him. Although he had ideals, he did not have a very good cause. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I could always trust him. It's good to work with Ögmundur. My time is long over, I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u18	Madam President. My dear Icelanders. To change the rules, you need to know them. I don't remember where I first read this piece of wisdom, but it's been my guide for most of my life. It is a privilege to serve here at this workplace, where rules are set and regulations are changed. The privilege comes with the responsibility and duty of promoting the interests of the people of the land and, indeed, the whole world. Piranus and I believe that with the forward - looking, critical thinking and active democratic involvement of the public, a rousing race may be raised toward a reasonable, happy society for all. The more people are concerned with their community and their well - being and cooperate to improve, the more they will get ahead of themselves. If we look into the world, however, evolution seems to be more the other way. The drawings are on the east and west of the sea that democracy stands weak and even aims to fall in its own way because of fear, inadequacy, and wrath of the common people, who are sorely tempted by the lies and deceits of those who choose it. As many people have sometimes felt about giving up my search for a better community, by giving in to anger, by pulling out, by wandering out of search, by fighting, and by entering the apathy and apathy that may follow the final surrender. Because just as a global human rights committee has made it seem to me that the improvement is rather slow here on Fonón, but when it passes, it's good to remember that although things are often slower than you, they wanted to crush in the right direction. In 2008 the Icelandic financial system collapsed with the disastrous consequences for the majority of people in Iceland. The common people then became aware of their power toward an incompetent government, which pretended to be essential to building up what they had caused themselves to fall apart. Historical protests placed their seat in front of the door, and they adopted a new government that promised a new community covenant to settle the fraud between Congress and nation. In 2013, the Constitution had been entered into a drawer, and those responsible for the economic collapse were reinvigorated. However, the public's awareness of their influence and responsibility continued to increase greatly. The people of the land developed an added intolerance to corruption and to personal friendship and to the Constitution, though stored, and are not forgotten. If we just keep rolling into a somewhat elegant government rule each other. The current senator and then prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnler's Gunnlaugsson, and let's stop the tape on April 3, 2016, the day when the memorable Castlight show of the Panama Documents held a greater part of the national adhesives and gawking at the screen, there is another example of this development, Mrs. President. The next day, the nation's solidarity was restored. The largest protests made by Iceland's history took place. 26,000 people came to the East to protest a government that had offended their sense of justice. The resignation of the Ministers, who had property in the tax industry and a new election immediately was required. Although at the latest. The prime minister of Bjarni Benediktsson was also included in the Panama Documents, however, there is a changed position today at the General Assembly. Never before have more recruits been present at a council. Women are more than half of the members of Congress, and our average age has never been lower. It is worth rejoicing that the nation has trusted just as many new representatives in order to administer the legal authority as it really is. The changes may go slowly, and people are likely to be afraid of change, understandable, of course, of uncertainty that we all even want to avoid. Therefore, it may not be surprising that a longtime interest guard and power squad is now leading a government to the shelter of two new categories that seem to see as their primary role to maintain the population's massive capitals of common resources and to provide the means of money to dissipate the public through the health and education system, and with a smaller part of the voters behind them. Madam President. Piranha wants to work for a culture of responsibility and honesty, a lack of zeal, and courage in the community, that we work together against the cousinism and corruption that the trolle has so far. To do so, we must strengthen our surveillance agencies so that they can do their job. They are to investigate the corruption of those in authority. They are to protect citizens from the efforts of the government and ensure that all are at the same table. They are to protect everyone's human rights, not just some. Therefore, I am so unfathomablely grateful to the voters who gave us the opportunity to introduce us to the nation and to build trust and support for the future. Piratar and I want a community where the democratic right of all people to influence is respected. Modern advances in recent decades make it possible that governmental democracy is no longer a dream but a realistic possibility. In order to be a part of democracy, however, we need to be enlightened. We need energy, time and understanding of the system. To enjoy our rights and health, we need to know them. So it is completely disturbing that a large proportion of society do not have the sure access to the necessary health care services for the poor people. Similarly, it is unacceptable for our teachers to exchange large groups for field service because of low pay and much effort. All of us know that we have every opportunity to offer excellent health care and education systems for everyone. The majority of the people agree with us on this. As a result, it is quite realistic that we build a society where everyone's human rights are protected, a society that treats everyone with dignity and provides a decent standing. Modern society needs people with varied abilities and initiatives. People who have the courage to go unsettled paths, experimenting with new technologies and new ideas. Therefore, we would like to consider the benefits of ensuring all the conditions of unprovable progress. It's not easy fighting for a better society, but it's important and it can be done. We do this by exercising faith in the rights of all of us to influence our community and its emphasis. We do so by protesting corruption, greed for power, and the special interests of the dominant elements, by following the sense of justice, by holding on to anger, by building and using it for good works, and by not giving up hope. The Pirates and I have already learned the rules, Madam President. Now we don't just want to change the rules. We want to change the game.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u19	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. Lately, the past few years have been extremely popular since the time of the end. Government took over. However, this time has been very interesting in dealing with differences in the highest order. Governments on various issues of the government. Among other things, there is disagreements about the highest issues. Secretary of finance, the State Budget Program, and the plans there to raise the value of extra taxes in tourism. A financial programme includes a very small amount of space for infrastructure. There, market costs and costs are mixed in many places, especially when it comes to health care. It paints a grim picture of an actual expansion of the situation. This is by no means in accordance with the promises of the governments nor with the emphasis of total elections. All classes spoke of the importance of infrastructure, but it is not contained in a controlled budget. How is it that 13 billion are needed to complete the construction of a new hospital? And how is it that 7 billion are needed to complete renewal in the previous hospital wards? There's no way here to see the ultimate. The government is fulfilling its promise to improve staff and patients at a land hospital where financial resources do not seem to follow specific goals. The same can be said of contributions to health care. It provides misleading details of a real growth in the seminary. So it is not possible to see how the ultimate power is. The health minister intends to strengthen the health care system throughout the country as much as the patient's first stop. Much of the funding for the seminary goes to building on medical stations in the capital area. A respectable president. My fellow Americans. We fishermen are fraught with ways to build-up. The reduction in the terms of the State budget according to the previous schedule and the subsidence of debt. Let us act, especially in areas where the spell is small. Good citizens of the country. Recently, society has called for improved health systems, and it was prominent in the leading of the last election. The appeal of society shows the importance of health policy and the need to continue to contribute towards the party in a consistent manner. The priorities of the candidates at this assembly were that a health plan was established. This plan was submitted where there was no healthcare plan at the U.S. Constitution. Governments. According to the medical programme, procedures within the system should be clear and defined as services should be performed. The services to be served at the National Hospital, the services to be performed in many medical institutions throughout the country, and the services to be made available to the private servants and to whether it is practical and/or preferred. The healthcare programme should take into account geographic factors such as transport and distance between habitats. In addition, bioequivalence should be ensured that healthcare services with extramedullary services should be performed. Precautions, public health, urban development in health care centres, populations of age, the location of medical vehicles, hospital access to medical flights, number of travel sites, and summerhouses should be taken into account. The programme shall determine whether and what means are there for making use of the means of health care in the country and thus reducing the stress of our good hospital, Land Hospital. The provision of a health plan will include consultation with professionals from around the country, key stakeholders and users. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education shall arrive at the work of a health programme to ensure financial support for the seminar and health professionals. A respectable president. My fellow Americans. One of the priorities of our candidates was a proposal for the recording of a uniform index price, which seems to have fallen asleep on the ground. The General Economic Committee. This is a great deal of interest for the home of the country. The motion is to take the housing team out of the index range and, based on news reports today, it is currently 12 months inflation at 1.7%, but it would be negative by 2.6 percentage points if the standard index price was used. Good citizens of the country. In addition, progressive candidates and I have stressed that we further reduce the patient's health - system payment and meet those who need to attend a distant maternity service. We will continue on this journey, and we look forward to fighting for good. Finally, I wish you all luck. - Good times and good summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u20	Madam President. I was in my first session on Friday, and on my second day at council, I'm not going to go into the stitches on what's been done or not done in the season. Instead, I want to talk about big things. I'd like to talk about our parishies. So on Friday, May 26, 2016, I graduated from college and was confronted with making my next move. I had been studying in the United States, was I supposed to stay there? Or somewhere else? Where, then? I decided to come home. Iceland seemed to offer a better quality of life than it was offered elsewhere. I could live in a city, but I was near a virgin. I saw the possibility of having children without having to leave my career. I saw that regardless of my economy, these future children could receive good education and access to health systems. I saw that I could live within a reasonable length of time from work and do interesting work but also have extra lives. I saw the possibility of living in a community that was open and out of equality. I'm not saying that Iceland is the best in the world. There are some things you can do, but we have an opportunity to offer young people a good quality of life. That is where our competitiveness is and we must cherish it. My generation enjoys the privileged position that the world is open to us. Because of international agreements such as the EEA Convention, learning, living and working abroad have never been easier where there are countless opportunities and the weather is better. Whether we like it or not, the globalization continues. During our restoration, we have talked about not fearing this trend but taking part in it and leading it. But at the same time as the world is decreasing, the opportunities outside are increasing, and then we have to guarantee a competitive standard of living in this country. As a small nation, we have certain limitations, but at the same time our chief power. It is not to be complicated or difficult to establish a common view of society. For us who do not regularly sit on a council, this is one of the surprises. It is difficult to understand why goals that even everyone agrees on cannot succeed, why we were lost in exports, and why they don't see the forest for trees. Basically, Iceland's people agree on the community we want. We want to enjoy social well - being, family life, and we always want to have access to the basics of society. At the same time, most people want to have a chance to be outstanding. And although we are not always 100% compatible on roads, we must be able to make peace in more places than behind our national team in football and agree to reach these goals. We are competing with the world, and in order for Iceland to become an interesting advantage for young people, we need to be leading and have a special situation. We need to take advantage of the economic surge that will allow us for the first time in years to think bigger. We must not limit ourselves to performing for special interests or lose out on details that lead to issues that all agree on not being successful. We need to set goals that will ensure that employment life is strong and innovation will thrive, and we need to make sure that people enjoy economic security and stability. This does not come naturally, and if we are going to be competitive, we need to secure this situation. While this is essential to funding, it is not our speciality. Our unique position is if we keep our pockets in proper perspective that, at the same time, we can offer a good standard of living, human and enjoyable welfare society in which economic, ethnic, and sexual backgrounds have opportunity, not but abilities. However, this does not necessarily require work and solidarity. Our congregation is in our small and short channels to unite in creating a society where well - being is guaranteed at the same time that people can use their talents in Iceland and outlast it. Madam President. I'd like to finish this here by challenging the council to join in ensuring that Iceland offers a competitive standard of living to look to the future and combine the big movie.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u21	Madam President. My fellow Americans. Today, most people look forward to vacations in the arms of the family. If Icelandic politics had really been in control of their role, everyone would have done the same thing with a sense of humor. Sadly, though, that is not so. At this month's convention, thousands of Icelanders will look blindly and wonder about the next few days and weeks to see if they will pay bills, give time to children, or pay medical services. Thousands of children will not experience the dream vacation that we well could have for our children. These children, however, will likely have no comment. You see, children are outstandingly mature. Most of them will carry their grief silently and spare their parents their concerns. Yet, many of them will undoubtedly look to the question of question, Why it? Why him? Why not me? Madam President. At the age of five to six, the development of a child becomes quite beautiful. It begins to feel compassion for others. They learn to put themselves in other people's circumstances and to feel for others. Who has not tried to stop the weeping of a child who finds and senses a tragic scenario in a cartoon or a children's book? But when we grow up, we develop the ability to put things in perspective, looking at the overall picture of things, but also to think about subversively and to deepen our feelings for specific events. Then we tend to resort to justifying all possible and impossible things from the world of the average and index. But we do not live in such a world. We are all flesh and blood, people entitled to live with dignity. Although the general standard of living for the Icelanders has improved dramatically and inexorably is lower than our goals are not reached in most places. We must aim to create a society in which all are participants, on their own terms. Iceland is rich enough land, rich enough of resources, so that all acceptable terms can be guaranteed. To that end, only the quality of balance and the sharing need to be settled according to individual abilities. Of course, we can never mix a political solution that makes everyone happy and happy, prevents disease, or even human weakness. Yet, we can be sure that we can be safe and decent. The average language is not merely a touch of reality but, at times, to distract us from the challenges we face. They can even lead us astray. Recently, the National Institute of Education published statistics showing that students in the capital area were more successful in the same standard tests than children from abroad. It was even possible to conclude that the children of the country were worse students and had poor teachers. There are no doubt a few less qualified schools in the small community and worse off. However, when results are analysed, grades are far more dependent on the social status of a child than on the location of the child. Children with less social conditions, weaker backlands, less incentives, worse luck. To deal with this, would it not be easy to increase the equation, adapt the living conditions, strengthen the welfare system, and attack poverty? For those who do not understand or accept the human sense of human contempt, which involves great inequities, it may be all right to promote economic arguments. Because of changes in national age, production is going to have to be increased if we are to continue to improve our general standard of living. The technological revolution ahead will bring much initiative to well - educated, creative individuals. For that reason alone, we cannot afford to leave any child behind. We need to develop educational systems that meet different needs, based on their strengths, not on weaknesses. And it's sad that this government does not put top priority on education. This is both disrespectful and shortsighted. - My fellow Americans. Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-05-29-74.u22	A respectable president. Good Icelanders. I'm standing here tonight in front of an Icelandic nation giving a speech for the first time on a kitchen day. I think I'm another first-generation importer who's giving a speech on a kitchen day, after a fight. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, who also gave a talk here tonight. For that, I'm very grateful. No doubt everyone is impressed, but I'd like to tell you why it's so important to me. It's not easy for me to be an importer at the Council, and it's probably not missed anyone. I don't always have it figured out. Sometimes I disagree. I represent a government class at a time when it is simply not a popular option to be in power. I have thought to myself, " Is it not only simpler to be in a position of government because I am what I am? ' I'm different. I'm pretty sure my liberal ideas, or ideas compatible with my experience and knowledge, wouldn't fly so loud if we were in a position of government. It would be easier to speak up at a convenient time rather than to deal with responsibilities that come with them. In the bright future, we have defined courage: It takes courage to listen to one's heart, to follow his convictions, to preach a vision, to trust in people, to listen to reason and information, to stand on your feet, to shoulder responsibility. I come to work here every day with those words stuck in my heart because I care about the community that has brought me so much and that I want the best. We still have much to build and improve in our society that paralyzed many of us during the 2008 collapse. Even so, we still have so many good things in this country that I sometimes forget. Here I, the foreigner, stand as a sign that there can be done things here that could not be done elsewhere. And certainly not in my country of America, the United States, the once and for all, Madam President. In Iceland, we're safe. Everyone here has access to education and health care. Here we have a massive and powerful welfare system, ready to seize those in need. Living in Iceland is interesting. I don't want to live anywhere else. When I moved here 16 years ago, I worked like most immigrants who were cleaning technology because there was nothing else available for someone like me who spoke almost no Icelandic language. I became isolated and became prejudiced over and over. But a lot of things have changed, and now I'm standing here, thanks to the Icelandic educational system. I came here from a wealthy country, probably one of the richest countries in the world, and I was surprised that there was no home, and is not yet, offered the same opportunities as here. I often wondered, " Do I really understand what that means and what Icelanders have on a grand occasion? ' To me, it means that if we use the systems we have, we strive to improve and make them more accessible, and if we meet challenges presented to us with power and a positive attitude, we can do anything. I was surprised to learn that my university wouldn't cost me millions of dollars every semester. At home, immigrants do not enroll in college after just three years in the country. In Iceland it's possible and it's great. People sometimes feel uncomfortable when I compare with what we have here and where we live in the United States. However, those of us who move here need to evaluate whether it is worth moving from family to family and close friends to settle down here. How am I gonna feel here? How will my children be angry in this society? In my case, this comparison has proved to me that I made the right decision because I feel very comfortable here. Iceland is truly the land of opportunity. I fell right away and I'm still in love with the Icelandic education system. I have full faith that despite the difficulties of starting after the collapse, we will recover. But that requires courage and courage. The education system is the key system in society. Education is by far the best way to empower the people of all ages, wherever we come from. We should not forget, though, that we also look to those who need special encouragement. Not just to those who are good at it and who are able to take advantage of their opportunities. We need to recognize the strengths that exist in the educational and community in general and continue to develop them. We do not know which school the next two -weight immigrant is sitting, who will step forward at the General and prove that we live in a country where everyone has the opportunity to go as far as they want. - Good times.
