ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u1	The election is being elected by the Generals according to Article 1. Section 3. Parliamentary affairs are reserved only for the appointed ones. I've received one commission of the 8th. South, Konráðsdóttir Brésdótsdóttir. Are there any other suggestions? Other nominees have not been received, so Brumbó is elected by his own wife's Konráðsdóttir. Since there is only one vote, the President's intention is to make the vote carried out by the vote system. If comments are not made in such a way as to the vote, the vote is made. The system is set this way, and we're cool. Councilmen in practice, that those who vote for Unnur Brá Konstrud Konráðsdóttir press the yes button, but those who want to understand the blank button marked "Do not celebrate."
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u2	Dr. Konráðsdóttir Consleydddótttir, 8th. South C.E., is the duly elected president of the Generals, with 54 votes, five senators don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u3	Honorable generals. In the beginning, I would like to thank the trust that I have been elected to be president of the Generals. I will make every effort to live up to the responsibility of this important office and to work hard to carry out my assignment faithfully. What a joy it is to accept the office of president at the turning point that women are now in half the body of Congress, or 48%, the highest rate of women in the General Assembly so far! We now meet after a special period of political history in which an unusually long time went from the General election until the government was formed. All of us can be proud of the tactics that the Council showed in December, where representatives of all classes were subject to their responsibility and worked together to resolve matters that were necessary to legalize before a new year began. I believe that the cooperation that all of us have now tried to achieve in connection with the Senate would mean the work of the Generals in the coming losses. In my experience with the activities of the Generals, it is possible to achieve good cooperation across groups of legalities. Will is all it takes. I will emphasize a close cooperation with the heads of Congress, the presidents, the members of Congress, the members of the Parliament, and the members of the Generals. To succeed in managing the Council's administration, a good agreement must be made with members of the Parliament and mutual trust must be made between government and government. I look forward to working with all of you. I want to know what. Councilmen from the moment I expect a prime committee to complete a plan for the winter and spring later this week and will be published immediately on the General Web. On this occasion, I want the government to wish well-being at work, and I hope that its cooperation with the Council will be good and effective. I wish for the new world's highest. special congratulations on new projects, as I thank those from the government to leave for their work. I also want to thank an advanced president, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and a prime committee for good work. I repeat my gratitude to the senators for giving me such an important assignment and expressing my willingness to cooperate with all members of the council wherever they stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u4	Now that a new government has been formed, the new President of the Generals, and the changes to the council governments, changes must be made to a court order. A seat that has generally been used by the guards must be removed. For this reason, a meeting of the presidents of Congress was arranged yesterday. The conclusion is that Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir has received his seat number 36, Brubbur Níelsson's seat number 24, Einar Brynjólfsson's seat number 4, Harðardóttir Hardydódótttir number 18, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, number 12, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddardsdótir number 53, Ólöf Nordal, number 40, Victored Ingi Jóhannsson, number 21 and Steigurson J. Sigfússon, number 35.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u5	Starting the election for six vice presidents. I have received a list of the names of the J. Sigfússon, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Jóna Sólveig Elínardóttir Elinardóttir, Þórunn Egilsdóttir, Nichole Leigh Mosty, and Tothol Björn Einarsson. The Brjánsson S. Théoden's gonna be an audience member on the Presidency Committee. Since there are no more tribunals than votes, I shall declare the rights to the vice president of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, 2nd vice president of Elínardóttir Sólól Sólvenótnar, 3th Vice President Jón Þór Ólafsson, 4th vice presidents of Nichole Leigh Mosty, 5th Vice Þórunn of Eglílónu Egilsdóttir and 6th President of Teitur Björn Einarsson. I congratulate the vice presidents on their chosen and successful career. I expect to cooperate closely with the vice presidents on the meeting and other committee projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u6	Before I give what? paritaprevir The year - to - year Ármannsson request is to state that it is not a common proposal from panels on committees, so their election is conducted according to 3 mg. 14th par. I just think it'll come out before it does. Senators comment on the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u7	V.E.G. President. In the interest of the Committee today, I would like to mention that the presidents of both the board and the conduct of both the administrations have had several meetings in order to propose a common proposal for the Committee of Committees and project division in committees that would follow events involving both the regular committees and the International Committees of the Parliament, which are here on the schedule today. The results of the informal conversation that took place between the classes of several meetings did not lead to a positive outcome, so here we do not have a common proposal for the Committee to Re-Elect, not to the Synod Committee. For this reason there are various reasons, and we who sat at that table may disagree on specific aspects of this, but this is the conclusion. On the other hand, it is reasonable to consider how the International Committees of the Parliament would be divided, and this will be reflected in the proposal presented below.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u8	A respectable president. As shown in the matter of what. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of the Year, could not agree on this point, i.e. of elections for the Council of the Council. Of course, the failure to do so is overwhelmingly disappointing. It must be important to have good cooperation here at the General Assembly for the smallest amount of share. It is a historic situation, and there is a situation that requires that we cooperate in the General Assembly. The spirit in changing the Conventional Act 2011 was that the commission and leadership of a committee reflected power and follows council classes, not necessarily more part of the government at any given time. This is a difficult blow, a respectable president, at work here, and it will be a challenge for all of us at the Council to build trust and good cooperation on this basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u9	President. We should bear in mind that, according to Congress law, members of Congress receive a seat based on their relative Senate grant. This means that the category of those in smaller sections has a greater share in the possibly three committees. However, the agreements go on to see that the majority of the government groups can be more of all committees. That gives them 40 commission seats, over 55% of all commissions. Let us bear in mind that in the election, the current government received a vote of less than 47%. For those votes, they get over 50% members of the council and then 55% members of the Committee. This majority power, represented by my share of voters, will be handled with great caution. I ask the U.S. Congress to handle that authority with caution and show it respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u10	A respectable president. First, I'd like to congratulate a new president and expect a good cooperation with the President. It is certainly disappointing and unfortunate to have no agreement for regular committees as soon as it is happy that both presidents and vice presidents as well as international committees have agreed on. I think the situation, with less than more part of what the government groups have, requires a significantly increased will on their part to cooperate in the council. We will not be in the memory of receiving such proposals to work together in the Senate, but it is certainly unfortunate that this has been concluded, but at the same time, I believe that it is a good idea that we have agreed on what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u11	Madam President. This is what you were afraid would happen. According to the Congress Act, it is recommended that negotiations be first sought and built on a Senate scholarship. Like what? paritaprevir Leví Björn mentioned earlier is the strength that is really not the strength that came from the voters. The voters are a lesser part behind the government that is setting these things in the chamber. The majority of the country's population is behind this administrative and convergence. What did they talk about right after the election? Let's try to make things right. That's what came from the government, but what happened immediately? The independent party suggests that he wants five of the eight committees' seats. What, then, is left for the others? A man thought about how this could happen. You knew that in the Senate, you are talking about trying to make peace, trying to make peace with the committee seats, and finding ways to do so. If it was to be acceptable or cooperative, it would have been the tone. But the conclusion came later in 14 C.E. par., you can use a fist. At that time, the administrative point, although not having more part of the country behind him, can decide that this is the way he wants it, and it's the fistet that's supposed to be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-01-24-16.u12	Based on page 62, the prime minister's plans and discussions are discussed. Congress will be tonight, Tuesday, January 24th, at 5 p.m. 6:30.
