ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u1	A respectable president. I voted in a comparable way in December last December, and there I explained by a vote that I would not vote again on these matters as they are proposed to the Council. Actually, I wasn't in that position where I am right now, the fine position of being able to interfere with the lawsuit. I have stressed that it is being given the citizenship of about 1,000 people every year with the administrative decision of the Foreign Institute. I have noted that I feel that this procedure as it has become today, with the spontaneous payment of the Generals on individual applications, not in terms of the human-, or at least I, would like to have in these cases. I am in such a fine position now that I can even affect the future of these matters. I intend to make changes with the bill for the changed implementation of the Agency on the part of the U.S.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u2	Madam President. I did this to 1st. The details of this bill show the importance of extension of various preliminary rules of fishing management. I also wanted to use this opportunity to draw the attention of the world's council because there may be some serious news about the situation of a number of people, especially small and medium-sized corporations in the fishing business, especially those in the bodyfish and industry. These are the companies that have been the worst out of all the factors that have developed in a negative direction in the recent years in this industry. There are increases in pay, the rise in the Icelandic crown, and the effects of the seaman strike. In addition, many of these companies have spent the last five years on a special debt - related discount from a fishing fee that is now out of September and that is not a reimbursement. Other companies pay in 2017, which is one of the worst year of business for these enterprises, to be taken off the cost of 2015, which was, on the other, one of the best in the last decade or so. Just to illustrate how the situation has worsened, the export value of sea products was now in February. 53% less than they were in February last year and these enterprises have been greatly diminished. I've talked about it with a seafaring minister that, in some cases, there will be a special assessment of this operation and the announcement is to be expected soon, that these next three months, or that they will be used for the sewing of these companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u3	V.E.G. President. I would like to express my joy that this matter has come for release. There has been good agreement on the matter in a foreign - language committee, and it was happy that the matter was moving quickly. I'd like to remind you it was the highest. The president of the council, Konráðsdóttir's beloved daughter, who first brought this matter into the council, noticed it during the last term, and should be thanking her for taking the initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u4	The president in particular thanks for this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u5	A respectable president. That kind of thing when you do it when you do it, it's really good to admit it. In the end, I took care of the case as if it were a vote by the end of the 3rd. In my diagrams, it spread to the bottom. Congress party. It's totally my shit, and it's confessed here and confirmed for the whole nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u6	A respectable president. I just wanted to think about why we have this subject for consideration now and what position it is in. We're paying off loans because of a Venetian march. On these, there are laws on government responsibilities. It is not explained that the state's responsibility does not collect risks, and the Ministry of finance decided it rather than the State Accountable Fund, as it shows in the State Accounting Fund. The charge is not paid as if it were due to be done under state responsibility. The account has not been set up, so we know what the site of the possession is, as it should be. Subsidual fees have not been set up. Clearly, the bet is not enough for the project. What I'm trying to say is that this project will be handled correctly, it must be taken over. It's very simple: I feel very irresponsible for the council to send it into the next terms instead of taking responsibility for it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u7	Madam President. I just want to without extending this council meeting excessively, that by agreeing to this bill, we are going to pass the Standard and Health Ministry unpublished checks on how to print laws as normal, according to the Constitution, I don't think it's a credit to the General. I think it's gonna be really embarrassing for some of us in a moment, and it turns out that maybe it's not too easy to land once you've got the law that you have to get it in negotiations.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u8	V.E.G. President. As anyone may know in this room, I have not had sleepless nights infatuated with this matter. And in spite of all this little excitement, I'm now on the green button. In practice, it is called swallowing the vomit. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] for important interests. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u9	Madam President. I recommend an extension of the Environmental and Transport Committee. The committee reviewed the case after the second. The meeting discussed aspects of the EEA's obligation to issue a work permit to meet the standards of the laws on loyalty and pollution, as agreed in Article 7. The bill. In short, the committee responded to this criticism with a change in proposal for 2nd. where the c-complex number 2 was suggested to take into account the second legislator, to add the 3rd question to the 1 mgr. a-arms 7. The bill. So in the shortest of cases, nothing else was done. The committee proposes this to be agreed upon.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u10	A respectable president. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee has worked a great deal on this case, yet it was found in the final meters that it only needed to be improved. My opinion is, and I wanted to share it with you because I know that you're excited to know what I think about most things, that this is part of the problem we have. Generals are already carrying out EEA directives. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We had to go very close to knowing, with the great follow-up, exactly what was required in the case of the EEA to move in on the basis of the directive and what was some kind of home-made supplement, or whether some special means were being taken here. In fact, the last addition to the question is that it was only a mystery what it was like to do it. I know it's been done, and I'm working on the Senate's behalf on these matters. I just want to reiterate that we are what we are. Senators need to know more about the introductions of the EEA directives what is exactly in them and what comes from other sources of advice and from what has occurred. Overseers' section.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u11	Madam President. I reiterate what I said before. I think everyone was aware of what the purpose was when it was decided to improve the losses they suffered because of the laws of special property. I feel like this bill, and this change doesn't do it fair enough. I'll sit next to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u12	A respectable president. We hereby vote on the highest case of the government in this council, the five-year financial programme. In short, the treatment of professional committees of the council showed that the basis for the strategy is unclear. Regardless of financial resources, a strong criticism of the plan brought back, including the following: it is criticized that the plan conflicts with the baseline laws on public finance as well as that the economic presidents of the programme are based on homologous projections where there are very uncertain criteria for the economic outlook. However, the biggest case we have considered in the left movement is that the plan will assume that the consumption will go down from year to year as a proportion of GDP. Thus, this schedule is far from the expectations given for elections by the executives of the administrations for the structure needed for health, education, and the benefit of the most advanced groups in society, disability, and the elderly. Therefore, we suggest that this proposal be dismissed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u13	Madam President. If this five - year financial program is adopted, the consequences will be very bad, especially for those in need of health, for those who are desperate and disabled, for students and for young families. The situation and the law will continue to worsen with a sense of insecurity. In the United States, we bring up a change in the best well-being business, which will be the worst if it's up to the government. We also make changes on the income side that contributes to a more righteous tax system, resist the collection of wealth on few hands, and provide a fair income of the nation's resources. We'll support other plans for the plan, but we'll vote against it less.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u14	A respectable president. I would like to heighten the fact that a larger proportion of the budget committee was made up of several points in its committee; the other is an indication of the structure and format of the programme, and the other points we draw special attention to. Many of these points were observed by the carers and are relevant for the individual topic areas. I think it's important to stress that the majority of the items agree with the amount of money and pay. On the other hand, we take the initiative to agree on the issues, suggestions for improvement, and suggestions for discussion. We agree with it and carefully step to the ground, work against the expansion, and at the same time confirm an expansion of important issues, such as health and welfare.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u15	Madam President. This is a turning point, not because of how great it is, but because there is no expectations. It can't resist the expectations we had here before the election. We have a challenging task to maintain welfare systems, education systems, transport infrastructure, to ensure that law enforcement is designed, that the county can operate in such a way as to do so, etc. Sadly, this budget reflects what we have been worried about, that the gap between the rich and the poor is getting even bigger. This isn't getting better because it actually does increase it. It is not to be met by family members who were to be raised. Rather, it reduces support. It does not meet young people because of the potential for housing support. It's all in the same book, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u16	A respectable president. Severe financial advice observations, lack of transparency, baseline-targeted management, inconsistencies in statistical production, lack of cohesion and policy interaction, emphasising the difference between description and analysis of data lacking, no attempt to fluctuate, homologous models, not taking into account multiple effects, no cost- and benefit analysis, no explanation of the development of investment growth, no argument support with claims of splicency, tension in the economy and predicting soft landings against the last-growing economic experience in Iceland, no forwarding of major challenges, such as the growth of tourism, gangbing, tension markets, increase in housing and the impact of health care services. Information about the public is missing as a share of GDP to make sure that it meets financial goals, financial programmes stuck in financial policy infrastructure, decreases in the values tax baseline on stability, waste of government management does not necessarily reflect the maintenance of public funds, lack of intelligence, time-making information. Unbelievably, if economic growth is not reached, the goal for positive yield is to be met. [[The president calls.]] Farmers have had to carry the weight of automatic fluctuation. For a detailed discussion of government property, there is no need. Investors are not divided into businesses and investments. It does not explain how to meet the accumulated needs of investments, and the debt of public enterprises is higher than it should be. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u17	President. Here we are going to vote on an important piece of paper. God of finance. We accept the income and the pay frames. We work hard and are learning much from this process on investment levels, cooperation between state and rural society, and such factors. That's a lot of protest. A greater proportion of the legal committee suggested what we would like to see that the next work would be done. Then right at the end, I want to thank the budget for my cooperation. It's been interesting this winter, and we're building a new system here. I hope that we will enjoy a rapid and successful performance during the years that the nation will enjoy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u18	Madam President. There are two serious flaws in the financial program. The production is unremarkably too wide, opaque, and in some places so demeaning that the wonders do not. And when it comes to the only number in the last three issues in which there is an increase or reduction in additional progress between years, it is impossible to understand how the amount between the years is determined and, on the other hand, in the majority of cases, is lacking. It's worth a great deal of important issues, such as college, innovation, research, and most of all environmental issues. It is impossible to strike a knight of climates with high statements on their importance and to accept the involvement of Iceland in the Paris Convention without sufficient funds. Government budget is not covered by the interests of the majority of people and the mother of the earth and is not supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u19	A respectable president. Economic and financial policies were said to be the most important issue in the government at the outset. At the end of the day, we're talking about guidelights and plans as a whole. should be followed. This fall's going to be tough. Everyone agrees in this room, and financial advice and a lot more, that the presentation, analysis - and that the legal commitment to public finances is not being made, how to submit this plan. Everyone agrees on that. But that's not the worst. The worst part is that this five - year plan does not answer the challenges we face in the infrastructure. This financial program does not answer the expectations that humans have had after the election. In the fall, with a new government. There are many other health, education, transportation, and media. We will not pay this program our vote. [[The president calls.]] We suggest that it be organized and a different plan and a better set instead. There's another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u20	Madam President. If one positive thing is said about this financial program, it is a problem. paritaprevir However, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson can recite all key financial statements in just over a minute. Not that it's a good plunger. In fact, the comments were much more and much more. This schedule has included have been described by the highest grade. Secretary of finance as imperfect. She's imperfect. It can't resist the law. We are to reject it now because it cannot be done, not acceptable for us to agree with a financial program that violates the law on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u21	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u22	It's just not acceptable. We're supposed to turn her down now, we can take the case back in the fall, and then we can do it properly. Work hard and give back to us something we can be proud of. Maybe.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u23	A respectable president. When we call the financial program starving policy, the truth is often painful. But what else can you call this? There are many examples. I thought, for example. little to the last government, but it did have the due credit to supply only a 0.5% minimum educational requirement. The requirement is up to 2% in the history of the current government. Knows how to do it. Well, the Minister of Education isn't evaluating the education system? Does he want to cut it against a nail? Does he want to starve it? Is he preoccupied with the micronational games, springing in the sun, rather than protecting the schools from what will be bloody cut down if this frame is kept? And he'll think, if anything is the limit. Secretary of finance. He'll think. And then all the beautiful government promises that it's just something like this, like a guide and sees what happens. [[The president calls.]] Then the wonderful promises will go for little.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u24	A respectable president. How sad that after spending all this paper in discussing this financial program, it will pass through the same process! It is as if those in charge expected that they will somehow be able to fix it as late as autumn passes. That we can just get her ready for a little bit. But I think that they don't understand what a financial plan is going to be all about. I think that there is no basic understanding in the administrative sector as to what public financial matters are about. The plan frames the budget. They can't fix things when it comes to things just because they want to. - Or yes, they can. They did this today about a Vádle-hall tunnel. We're about to vote for this proposal here, not for the next year's proposal. We're going to take a stand on this proposal here, not the proposal that may come next year. We need to start to understand when we decide what, when, and how. [[The president calls.]] It's this suggestion here, not the proposed next year, that we're voting on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u25	Madam President. More than a portion of the budget is denounced and actually tearing up this financial program. The rest of it will probably accept it, though. This financial scheme, if it is approved, will seal the betrayal of these classes before the election. It does not promise any future. She leaves a lot of poor children behind. It does not meet the needs of older ones who have here drawn the chariot over the decades, and it will give young people no promises and answer why they should spend their energy here and carry in the preparation of the next few decades. There is no waste to accept this document.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u26	Madam President. In many respects, the financial programs that we now employ are valuable. It is clear that we are going to the edge when it comes to expenses, in contrast with what many here at the Senate Hall are talking about. We are making a decision to make that cost in 2022 will be equivalent to $33 billion this year. That's what they're talking about. That's a promise. More medical expenses are being made. It will be 34 billion more in 2022 than this year. And then people talk like they're proclaiming some bloody cutback. On the contrary. [[Up front.]] However, we do expect that summer and autumn will be used to review the very carefully and thoroughly the tips most of the legal committee worked in a very careful way. [[The president calls.]] That's the message from this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u27	Madam President. It is not a small responsibility. It is a fundamental view of political policies on how politicalism should exist here for the next five years in terms of raising funds for the state funds and distribution. In this programme, the lack of quantifiable analyses is fundamental, uncertainty about economic factors, lack of consultation and detection of tax change. The greatest and worst lack, however, is the lack of funding for the essential development of education, the health system, the development systems, and the transportation system that was here beautifully promised in the process of elections. How we as a community decide to manage our finances is at the same time a decision to build up a community. In the left green, we want the objective and purpose of government funds to ensure all the opportunities to enjoy themselves in the community and that everyone is committed to a decent standing. I'm sorry for the sad politics here announced for the next five years in the government of the Independence Party, the Revolution and the Bears of the Future. [[The president calls.]] I violate this financial program and against the politicians in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u28	Madam President. This financial strategy reflects the right course that exists here. The combination is being reduced and the situation is increasing. This financial scheme has no ambition or a vision for the people of the country. It shuts us down, locks up our community when we should just spit in our hands and build up wood, health, education system, and have some ambition to expand research and innovation and energy exchange. All of this is upset because there are many beautiful promises that are not funded. How could anyone possibly do otherwise than bring this financial plan back to the Father's house and let it be won better? It's just not acceptable to be stuck with a financial program that describes such little ambitions and that much of that is spoken of only for the next five years, or worse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u29	Madam President. The budget cannot resist public financial laws. So much can be learned from the words of a·gaʹpe. Chairman of the budget board as well as the highest. Secretary of finance, who sees this document as a form of practice. In particular, in terms of the requirement for public finances on transparency, which is responsible for this. that state agencies argue over the bread crumbs that the government throws into them in a specialized version of the Hunger Games, saying, "Well, refugees aren't allowed to have so much. " Or: There must be no more than ours, and the National Guard must have no more than the law. This is because people have no idea what will happen to this money that is being cut off in the financial program. However, it is positive that the secretary of finance has promised to abide by the law next. But that does not change the misery of this plan. She should be killed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u30	President. I pick up the thread that was left behind. Sunna Ævarsdóttir Övarsdotir, who also wants to point out, which has come in and is very enjoyable, and I want to thank you for the statement that came from the highest level. The secretary of the budget to ensure that the next implementation of the financial programme laws on government funds will be implemented. I hope we don't get a second stream, as discussed in this financial program from the head of the budget committee but a real financial programme to be followed. I think that this stream is such that when we cross the budget, this financial plan, of course, will not be followed because it is just a drill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u31	A respectable president. I'm entering this case at the Council at the final stage. What I see is four key elements. First, there is a clear recession in contaminants, initial mails, and this results in starving service agencies. Secondly, there is very little infrastructure, i.e. Despite the lack of plans, plans of various kinds are priceless. Third, it is a tax policy that makes it apparent that it promotes inequities. Fourth, there is no money policy that supports and is not at peace with the plan. So I vote against this program and support its dismissal.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u32	Madam President. This financial program, which we now vote for, does not assume the budget needed to run the Iceland community in order to become a waste. Thus, this plan is bad news, especially for those with lower incomes, and it is especially beneficial because this is a powerful social health system and is a powerful social education system. Then the plan assumes that growing funds will be spent on military matters but total lack of ambition when it comes to developing cooperation. This is an incredibly pure and clear right policy that is to be demonstrated in this financial program and rejected.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u33	A respectable president. This financial program is a testimony and confirmation of a very extensive campaign fraud. It is a paper that reflects the conclusion of the three governments that there is no room to build up in the health, education, or infrastructure. What we're seeing here is a very hard right course for the Independence Party to be offered by a former platoon member in Reservation, who are temporarily but likely on their way into the Independence Party, since they certainly belong, and at the invitation of a Bjart's future, which pretended to be a publisher of new politics. Let their shame be their shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u34	A respectable president. And it's not going to be too much of a pension commitment to be done. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The current budget is full of streets. There are many numbers that cannot be explained why it is high or low based on the underlying list. True, these are circumstances, so this is the first time this is the case, and it has been called a running issue or exercise. But like a dog. paritaprevir Ásta Helgadóttir said this is serious. Even though it's just a drill, there's a lot of numbers in the budget that's being approved and these numbers are supposed to come into the budget. I look forward to seeing those figures appear, but not much higher numbers or something much lower or something without even explaining them very well, without a very good explanation of why the Congress is accepting over itself. [[The president calls.]] The Congress is ordering the government to make budgets for this strategy, it's not the government's decision to cross Generalis's conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u35	Madam President. It is important to keep it in place that financial advice gave this government budget a drop-off. It has been observed here that the level of consumption has not been as low for 25 years as this program indicates. There is a dispute with the rural communities about a very important factor in this, since they are to share their share in public finances. Here is an offer for a rigid living, not only by increasing the requirements for each group of subjects, but also by subsidies above what is needed. The plan is not funded in view of the proposal of the majority of the budget board at least if she's paying attention. Of course, when we are in the long - term economy as we have been and expected, you ask yourself: " When is it time to make good with those less fortunate? It is also reprehensible to be pushing down basic financial agendas into the autumn as is being done here and not to deal with the observations that have been made. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u36	A respectable president. There are some things that are surprising to these financial programs and things that are not surprising. Of course, I was surprised at how shameless politicians are willing to stand in front of an international nation a few months after the election and say: "I'm going to fuck up all my campaigns. It is not surprising what the financial program will look like on the part of the Independence Party. This is the right course of the Independence Party that drove society onto a cliff a few years ago, all forgotten. Now it's time to spit back and forget the person who has no right to remember. Not surprisingly, at the time of the restoration, I am surprised to learn that a bright future - a class that did not directly speak of it during the last term at the highest tax policy. to the present minister of finance, Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, would be so perfect that she could remain firm - standing to this conclusion and having to betray all her campaigns on one board. That certainly surprises me. [[The president calls.]] And it may be figurative that not one member of that party is listening to my speech here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u37	A respectable president. It is clear that the budget is unconvinced. It lacks transparency and all the future. I'd like to make a special remark, as I've done before here, on how badly the university is financed. It is quite remarkable that all these classes praised the increase in money to the university. All of this is fraud. How amazing that there are new powers, ministers of a new era, and what do they do as soon as they sit in the government? They betray what they said just before the election. I'm also amazed that we don't see any of these people coming in here and going over the situation, showing us what their vision of the future is, what their ambitions are for land and nation. I'm pretty sure we'll see a change in this in the fall. We will see significant changes because this is likely to be no more. Because of the unconvinced nature of the case, the Congress party will be on the red button. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u38	Madam President. You might think that one who wrote: War is peace, bondage is power, and ignorance at the level of strength that this plan of government is called upon to promote law enforcement throughout the country when all police headlines throughout the country say it will reduce law enforcement in all countries. The land hospital calculates that at the same time, a future hospital area of 5 billion will be built to keep the business gone and will finally buy three new helicopters for the Landland Guard, but that is not to guarantee human life in order to do their job. War is peace, breath is power, and this government budget is basically the best thing to do as a molta, since it cannot be built on anything else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u39	Madam President. This plan is a bad one. As with so many cases coming from this government, who promised additional consultations and improved practice, it is here to shove down to the back of its throat. Congress members of this unpardoned and even illegal matter simply so that nothing will be too bad for them. This is not the only case lacking, it is not the only case that violates other laws. It's a shame, Madam President, this financial plan must be terminated, perhaps just to the highest level. The government learns to work a little better next time and to show more respect for Iceland's legislatures.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u40	Madam President. There are not many executives who support this financial program. It may not be strange. It's bad for many. It's bad for the land. I think it's all right to keep it in place, because it is often the remainder size of the discussion, the financial agenda is a very bad thing about the country. It is cut down on road projects, not to be expanded, as expected. There is no follow-up schedule, it is flirting with privatization in the health system, privatization in the educational system, and sale of property. This is a disastrous development with this right - hand control of power, the way to break down the infrastructure. What to do is try to get rich people in this country, that's just the way it is. It is secret and clear to extend anything that is considered to be social property and that is in the community business to private hands. It's a bad case that needs to be eliminated.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u41	A respectable president. What do Congress conclusions have on financial plans and Potter Potter and the prisoner from Azkaban have in common? Yeah, it's both about that. 360 pages, and they're fairy tales. Criticism is about exactly what I think it is. paritaprevir And the son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, rent here in very many words, that all these goodly promises should be fulfilled. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke here is not based on anything. These are fairy tales. I can honestly say that for the next 30 years there will be economic growth, but I have nothing to do with it because I don't have any numbers behind me. This is the problem, therefore, this financial plan is to be canceled, simply because we're building it up. On the sand, a stupid man built a house and I'm a little afraid we're building on sand. We're not building on a rock.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u42	Madam President. It may not be surprising that no adjustment of the proposals that might make up for this financial agenda came from a greater proportion of legal committees. The wedding hall, to listen to a discussion about the vote, is small by the management, as small as the discussion of the matter itself in this room. Perhaps it is just that governments are not interested in hearing any criticism of the matter or that they are not participating in any reasonable, upbuilding developments in order to improve the situation. That hurts. We're supposed to be doing a lot better things at the Council, we're supposed to be doing things well. When there are indications in both the conference hall and in the community that things are bad, we should improve them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u43	Madam President. I find it hard to state in a civil way how much confusion this financial plan is and the ideologies behind it, the ideologies that have no purpose in the future. I will, of course, vote against her and just hope that some member of the house has gone to sleep so we can take it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u44	A respectable president. We here vote on a deliberation motion that will be turned back to the government, which is both an updated proposal but primarily a proposal that has a very bad political nature, i.e. a proposal for starving policy and personal development, a policy about not doing good in health, not in education, not in transportation, not in other infrastructures that society so desperately needs. In the left, we'll say yes to the check-in.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u45	A respectable president. As I mentioned in the discussions about the votes, the candidates and I support giving this matter to the government. We think this is a bad suggestion. It is remarkable to see here that in the majority of the bodies of the budget committees, members of a body or very many of the indications that we have been on but that they do not offer one single form of adjustment to this financial program because they do not seem to dare. It can't stand the government business. The financial minister alone remains with the proposal for an increase in the value tax. And there's another one. That is why there is no other question than to accept this proposal and that the government will restore financial plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u46	A respectable president. Piran and I recommend that the case be dismissed. There are a lot of holes in this financial program, there are a lot of tips on what and how to do better. It's no problem just sending it back to the government. The government stops these holes and brings them back at summer conventions so that financial programs are ready for autumn and the budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u47	Madam President. The United Nations has agreed that contributions to development cooperation will be 0.7% of the gross national income of rich industry. Me and the Icelanders are far below that standard. In the budget the government proposes that only 0.26% of the defenses of national income will be spent on development. At the same time, an emergency call has been sent out to the world to increase the budget for humanitarian work and development cooperation. The Icelandic people are one of the richest people in the world and are to see their worth in doing better. The Agency's proposals for developing cohesion are expected to increase to 0.29% of the budget of national income to 0.33% at 2025. Of course, we should do better, and we should plan to meet the standards of the United Nations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u48	A respectable president. The union suggests a few adjustments. Many of them are indeed improving, and so are the left movement ▪ greens. We runners and I have declared that this financial program is not good enough and that it needs to be restored. We feel that there is another way, a more reasonable way, one that would be based on going to the infrastructure in many parts of the country where there is no expansion. The better way to think of the reconstituted economy and to be more careful in all things is to be careful. We're going to stay by all the changes made by the United States even though many of them are, as I said before, good as we changed proposals from the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u49	Madam President. We left greens support the United States' proposals, they count as a great improvement. As we have seen in financial discussions, there is much more to be done. Here we are talking about contributions to development aid, which are shamefully low. They were decommissioned during the last term, reminding us. This government will bring about the future, the restoration and independence party have decided to keep it in its place instead of making a plan to meet the standards of the United Nations. There's money to put on a military operation with NATO, but there's no money to put more into development. We are to spend more of our resources and less in warfare.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u50	A respectable president. Pirantics consider these changes to be just fine, but they are based on sand. Since the context of the budget is missing, it is difficult to understand how it affects the total package. Although changes are good, because financial plans themselves are so full of holes, and we feel that financial planning will be turned away, it is difficult to explain how the adjustments should fit into that package. Although some of the adjustments are very good in themselves, we are embarrassed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u51	Madam President. Clearly, the contributions made by the government for transport, communications, and law enforcement are not enough to meet the urgent need. The situation of the road system is very poor, as the people know. There is a lack of both maintenance and innovation and pressures as tourists increase, especially in certain areas of the country. They must respond immediately with increased financial contributions. Police work over the growth of tourists has increased throughout the country and in the non-life and limb population. This adjustment suggests that the transport program will be funded, communications will be in place throughout the country, and law will be promoted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u52	Madam President. For example, if we watch the P.S., the increase is only 2.8% during the financial period when we have taken into account the bargains. Therefore, the success of this public security and justice is now empty. The aims of a law enforcement program completed in the past few years are not looked forward to, e.g. about the amount of people you need. And we know, it's been observed by the head of the Northland and Southland police, that we have to cut ten points. That's what we're looking at. In view of this situation, there is no record of structure in the public safety and justice. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice has been observed in a financial program that requires drastic action to maintain the administrative facilities within financial resources. That means there's information on the staff. Despite new decisions, contributions during the period decrease by less than 400 million. Then we must not forget the international flight when talking about transportation and communication. [[The president calls.]] It should be defined as part of the public transport system so that it is a real option for the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u53	Madam President. Many said that the word "weighs " was the word of the last campaign. This is all there is to suggest for the transport program adopted by many members of the Parliament in the autumn. I was in a campaign with quite a lot of these people on my way through Northeast, where they promised me beautiful things. I can't believe these people are going to betray them now. This transport program may include the most important and most powerful based support possible. I'll wait and see how - or I can see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u54	Madam President. Indeed, the policy of the government in education is an amazing shortness of face right now when we face social changes in which professional life will undoubtedly change in years. With increased self-instruction and artificial intelligence, much work will be removed and new ones will be created. The only practical way to meet that challenge is to expand school activities and adapt them to new realities. Government policy is different. It strongly protests the Conspiracy and presents adjustments that support both high school and university levels. If budgets for this area are to be agreed unsatisfied, Iceland will be reduced again from countries to countries and that the competitiveness of the country is getting worse each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u55	Madam President. We support this council proposal. It has been edified with great structure, but when we look at the actual college business, there is no increase in the next year, just over 2% in 2019, relative to the budgeting of the current year. So it is far away from achieving the targets of the Scientific and Technological Council that it set for the university funding of the system to be at least comparable to the average OECD, and later to the northern countries. We've talked a lot about high school here. The amount of money promised by an independent minister to remain inside the system because of the reduction of study will not be the case. That promise is a betrayal. Some 1,700 million are cut down there. No structure is expected for the National Institute of Art, which is in a health - threatening facility. Is this the prospect we would like to set up a table here for our young people? I don't think so, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u56	Madam President. The government is not going to offer us any future here. It is to be cut into the same knees and built on old out - of - date practices. They'll do something, but not for long. We need to start building college and high school. We're submarines of other northern countries at the university. Here are the broken promises in the financial program that the funds due to the reduction of high school remain within the system. This is merely an act of betrayal and an opportunity to correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u57	Madam President. The public has clearly called on government to provide a handsomely publicized health system and all political groups to praise a better health system during the campaign. What a disappointment it was to see the government's proposal for health care in the financial program! They're a complete betrayal of voters and the people of the country. The Group provides changes in the provision of increased hospital donations, national health care and further reduction of health care support by patients in the health system. Indeed, when the nation is growing older and the need for nursing is increasing in a similar way, the prerogative of the government in the affairs of the elderly is also reprehensible. The union also makes adjustments in order to meet all the most urgent needs in this area. I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen to make these changes at least in this financial program, which is a disgrace to all. It is opaque but transparent enough to show us that contributions to the health system are completely unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] We have to make some changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u58	A respectable president. There has been no secret: There are no acceptable contributions placed here on the table of health care. Once the amount has been grouped and divided, it is actually an increase of about 338 million in 2018 for general management - 0.4%, that is all. However, it is not just at the Land Hospital ◯ A university hospital that lacks funds for business, equipment, and other financial expenses, such as the Akureyri Hospital. There are tens of millions missing, and there's only enough room for the bed department to go to the blueest. It's not acceptable in a time of economic growth that it's like this. This is in no way an increase in patients, and this really means surgery to the future. At the same time, however, the personal interest of the right government is maintained.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u59	Madam President. The government will also be a disgrace when it comes to the affairs of those who are desperate and disabled. The Chairman of the Quantum Community describes that situation well in the News magazine today. The government draws its feet in terms of improving disability and in the days of microenergy pensioners to the complex and inexplicable rights of public security, with a cent against a dollar in favour of the worst. If there is a serious problem with taking action that can help reduce the number of people with disability assessments, the government should focus on the extra equation. The Conspiracy's proposals are that the microchip will be resuscitated as early as next year. Only after the entire campaign campaign campaign program will change immediately next year, the donor will not be allowed to wait until 2019 to obtain ignominious compensation and beyond schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u60	Madam President. I agree with what. Senator, the table is a disgrace. This is a set point for us to assume that this legal class is expected to reduce the number of microorganizations through the work programme. It is of great concern to believe that prior to the full analysis of the results of this will be possible for those who become sold under it. Seven micro-energy donors suck, as we know, and did not improve them by the actions of the last government. The changes in the rights of micro-energy donors in the social security system are not in line with the changes made in the rights of seniors, not until the year 2019. This means that disability will continue to exist in this complex system, with a crown against a dollar's decrease, which is very negative to the population at any given rate. Then NPA should be registered. In fact, it waits for the fall. However, this does not change the fact that the terms of the budget are not expected at least yet, and there is a disagreement with the local communities. It's gonna cost, and it's a lot for the rurals, and it's gonna do some 270 million, I think. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u61	Madam President. The government seems to try to do all she can to make it difficult for young family members. It reduces housing support and the importance of child - welfare benefits, which are key tools that governments can use to meet low - paying people and those with moderate income. In recent years, there has been constant compromises on young family members in the country. To get that position, we're supposed to go to the Northlands by models, not to the International Cash Fund, as the government wants to do. A crisis in real estate calls for action from the government. There is a lack of housing. Large profitless tenants and the number of rentable apartments add to the problem. The Union's adjustment proposals improve the status of children's families and face housing problems, although they need to be done even better, since it involves not just a welfare problem but a major financial problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u62	Madam President. In view of the position in housing conditions, it is impossible to say that a national financial program promises to cope with this situation by progressively reducing the donations of the State over time. Not only is this so, but the weight - saving value of growth is replaced by families who enjoy the greatly enlarged and the balance effect of the system is diminishing and still adds to the problems, especially younger ones. Also, it is not possible to see in this how housing reform plans will be implemented or if they will take some form of financial change or be frozen. All I can imagine is that these are tremendous disappointments for young people, especially for children's families, which, according to research - and we shall not forget - have not had them for so long, much worse than the young generation less than 30 years ago. A respectable president. These are rather sad news for young people into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u63	Madam President. The changes made by the United States on the income side of the programme contribute to a more righteous tax system and an even more equation. They are about to increase the profit of national resources and property funds, the increase in gross property taxes, the gradual growth of fiscal taxes, and the gradual exchange of income tax taxes, the general level of the stakement of the stakement tax, and the intensification of tax control. We feel the need to reevaluate the tax system with the aim of increasing the equation in society and making it more righteous. These laws are not enough, but they are improving and making money to strengthen the health system, education system, and road that is so desperately needed, and the public calls for.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u64	Madam President. We left greens propose a proposal to meet what has been presented in the discussion, as shown in the comments of the state-of-the-art programme, but we also show responsibilities and put forth extra effort. Because if financial programmes for 2018-22022 are to be served as targets for the growth of important structures, including in the field of health, education and transportation, there is an opportunity to improve the quality of the elderly and to improve housing and family needs to expand the budget and increase the revenue. This suggests a somewhat higher income raise than the increase in expenses, especially in the front of time. This results in more share of the state funds management of about 0.5% of GDP during the first two years of the period than any less. This emphasis has the important economic objective of working against the growth and support of the currency, making it easier for the growth reduction. Because of the vague premise of the government budget and the lack of appreciation, it is inevitable that, instead of the disintegration of the current budget, the frame will be enlarged to meet a significant need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u65	Madam President. Since the last fall, governments were so unfortunate that they would not accept the suggestions of the United States and thus have a chance to fulfill their promises. Because they were published in the United States support proposals for the left green because we feel that it is necessary if we create a future in which we live.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u66	Madam President. We're going to turn left on this government financial plan. It does not live up to the expectations of elections, does not depend on any real vision for this community. It foretells the total lack of ambition in education, in health, in the ideals of the worst groups, and in housing. It is based on vague reasons that have been severely criticized by an independent financial body and that are in a confusing dispute with the greater part itself. I predict that when it comes to handling the next budget, there won't be a stone standing over a rock in what's being agreed on here. The members of the board have no convictions. It doesn't make sense to agree with this financial plan. The only thing is to reject her because she doesn't either. It does not hold water for our community, nor does it hold even the same line of reasoning.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u67	A respectable president. It is not enough for this financial program to be a little peculiar but to blink all the tablets, and hence a warning bell, giving evidence that it is wise to cancel this financial program. We progressives suggest that the government is now going to swing with us in the smaller part of the world and take this to heart and revise it. The budget estimated here will not live up to the expectations of human health systems, education systems, transportation or law enforcement systems, much less in the interiors of many countries around the country. Now, it's a perfect opportunity, fine government, to go to it right now, where there's no sign of it and to use the opportunity to build Iceland all over the circle, where there will be a chance for people to live and live a good life for a long time. [[The president calls.]] Because living in Iceland is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u68	Madam President. I want to use this opportunity to thank you. Parliaments for discussing this financial program. The budget is ambitious and progressive, but it is also conservative. It adds money to many lawsuits, strengthens the welfare system, and strengthens the transportation system. I can well understand that many senators are eager to add more to the various litigation categories. We all want to do so. We want to do it well. But we are in a position to have priorities. It has been pointed to the format of the program and the fact that we are learning. We're studying together, and I've really been willing to learn from the indications. Councilmen have come with us. I'm glad we're now getting this phase.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u69	Madam President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance wrote in his financial program that structure is opposition. That's crazy. For example, when we live in poor health, education systems, destabilizing roads, it is a great help to spend money. I don't think the government ever betrayed their campaign promises as fast as this one has. If the highest. I'm sure a minister of finance would expel her tongue if she were black.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u70	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate the first step taken here in the spring Summit, i.e. ... tofinisha 5-year financial programme. It's a turning point. It's historic at the council. Despite differences in the subject aspects of the plan, we have been able to go through a discussion and end it in this vote. Both the income and the payoffs have been managed. On the income side, major tax increases are reported by the smaller part, progressively ranging from 30 billion to 50 billion per year in the latter part of the strategy. Thus, the administrative body is completely opposed. However, the amount of expenses to grow is then under way, but they are truly growing. This is because we have managed to master the money. We're lowering the government debt, making the best for the future, improving all the issues. [[Up front.]] There should not be disagreements here at the council about the fact that we are living in a period of building, although many feel that we should go faster. [[The president calls.]] But that's one of the things we're going to take into account when reviewing this plan: We must not let people get too strong if they are going to take care of the needs of the group.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u71	A respectable president. This is a waning requirement, rejected by political parties, which have less votes for voters. The lesser part talks. There's a financial program of political parties that is being approved by a smaller part of the vote of the voters. The lesser part talks. What's going on? Prime Minister? The lesser part talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u72	Madam President. In the situation we are today, where there is a great need to build up the welfare system and transport, we are expected to earn money to do the work, thus keeping the balance in our system. The government shows ambition and shortsightedness with this financial program, with a financial agenda that has gained a GPA and will also win the nation's credit when the budget appears in the fall and is based on this strategy. Madam President. It's a real disappointment that this new government puts in such an ambitious short plan until the next five years, which also assumes tax reductions during the assembly. It's a priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u73	Madam President. You're right. paritaprevir The name of Leví Gunnarsson's son is here to agree with a financial program of the Parliamentary sector that has less votes behind him. It's only natural to mention it. There is a certain democratic prince in the world that you need to vote for a greater proportion of the people behind you. It doesn't follow into our system and it can come up like this. This financial strategy is adopted despite its not complying with the government laws on government finance, the way it should be, and so on. It's not being followed. It has been recognized here at the council by the secretary of finance and the chairman of the legal committee, by those who have promised that this is not to be done again, that it will be fixed next time. But this is the situation upstairs. The majority of senators with a smaller part of the voters behind them are accepting a framework of the budget that is to be sent to the government in a conflict with the law on how to do this. [[The president calls.]] It's all about work. These are facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-06-01-78.u74	President. I note that out of the program of this meeting, the Minister of Justice was taken over the order of a court judge in the land, and the U.S. Senate agreed that they would have the opportunity to discuss this important change in legal matters during the day to the normal circumstances. Discussion of the matter will begin at 0500 hours. 11 a.m. and no doubt informing about the process, and hopefully helpful for members of Congress, as well as for other citizens who are concerned with the legal state. I want to take this opportunity and thank you for at least a chance to agree on this, even though postponement has not been reached to discuss the matter thoroughly with an appropriate committee. Thank you, President.
