ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u1	We're expecting lunchtime off the clock. 13 o'clock. 14 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u2	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 197, for the funding of individuals, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u3	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Independence Party in which he was informed that Hildur Sverrisdóttir, 8th. Smoke. This will include Ólöf Nordal committees previously served in accordance with 2 mg. 17th par. Parliamentary law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Environmental and Resource Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Foreign Affairs, Industrial and Neoplasmic Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u5	A respectable president. I had a word with the highest. Minister when he proposed a proposal for a change in the Council of Justice or the establishment of a new Ministry of Justice. We discussed this discussion about the cost of these changes. Many of us were concerned that this discussion revealed that no cost - price assessment had taken place. V.E.G. In fact, a minister answered that it was quite clear that taking one service and turning it into two would involve some additional cost, as he put it in the discussions. He mentioned a specific basic service, a special Ministry Secretary, etc. I proposed to the highest level. Minister to sharpen this answer, on what scale the figures were, the annual figures below, 10 million, 50, or 100. It has now been shown in the case of the Committee that, after some time, the administrative and monitoring committees have managed to achieve a 120 million per year rate, costing this change. This imagination of a new government, i.e. To build a special Ministry under the current Minister of Justice, it costs nearly half a billion during the term. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because he spoke of seeing ways to arrange for this elsewhere in the Board of Directors, where to do so, and whether this figure is in harmony with what he thought, and why he did not make it clear to the council at the time, or whether this figure would be unpleasant to him as it is here.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u6	A respectable president. I'm sure this number surprises me, and I don't really think it's possible. I don't think it's possible that we're going to need it when we're not adding a minister, when not adding a new car to a driver, when not adding a new secretary in themselves, but only making a separation between two advisers. There's no new housing or anything else being added, and I don't think it's an option for the Ministry to suggest that after the divorce costs more than 100 million more so that the operation can continue unchanged. I don't think that's an option. I'm sure it wasn't the sort of numbers mentioned as saving when the old scheme was clicked into a new ministry together. Therefore, at this point, I would like to let it be noted that I feel that it is not possible to proceed with the case on that basis. This needs to be over and over. I state, as directed, that I realize that this will require some kind of work, e.g. Like advertising the Ministry's office. Of course, something is being costed. But I require the whole administration system, and in this case of the Board of Management, that people constantly seek ways to save and not take the opportunity to add more than the circumstances call for.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u7	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of clear answers. It is so that in today's expense assessment of the committee, seven new employees, including, are expected if a respectable minister would listen to two new experts whom I would have thought would be present in the current State Department for replacements. I hear it at the highest. Minister to believe he should reconsider this decision, i.e. At least review this arrangement. I'm asking the highest. A minister may consider that in this revision it is proper to try to do so at the highest level. As we noted here at 1st. The issue of this matter could be considered to add to the Management Board's supporting systems and to keep costs to a minimum, since it cannot be considered responsible for the use of public funds to do this at this convention. I also want to ask the highest. Minister and beg him to overturn his words whether I am not properly understood by the matter as presented in this setting, i.e. Half a billion in the season, if stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u8	A respectable president. What I'm simply saying is this: I still believe that it is the right to set up a special Ministry of Justice on the other hand and the special Department of Transport, the local government, on the other hand. However, this is not because if the ministry involved, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, cannot provide for the council an alternative strategy that is more realistic on the costs of this than the one that has been received by the Committee today. We will not continue with the situation if the cost is more than 100 million at the time of the transition alone, without any new issues to be taken care of. It's perfectly clear to me. It's out of the question. But I'm quite convinced that if you're more concerned with this matter, they'll see that you can do this without costing it much. That's how I want to see it end.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u9	President. I'd like to start by celebrating what has been presented in this inquiry just now. I'm very happy to hear that. The prime minister is willing to take a closer look. I'm in a lot of other places. The pension rights of public employees were recently undergoing very extensive changes. When that matter went through the council, it was done at great speed. It was then on the website of the BSRB that the law had been approved. By permission of the President: The General has agreed to this significant change in the law on the pension of public employees without agreeing to these changes among government workers. It is clear, therefore, that the project is not finished. Therefore, BSRB will continue to work on this matter to ensure the legal rights by the General Assembly. It is obvious then that this procedure will have a negative impact on Community relations. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on how to cooperate with BSRB in this matter and how to work with the Director of the Management Board. Governments plan to achieve what had not been accomplished sufficiently before the legislation on the integration of pension rights was adopted here at the Council, with far too many free ends and all too fast before Christmas last year. It is now worth considering that following the ban on public workers to strike, there will be a loss of 31st August of this year and there will be no suggestions for correcting the pay panels over the next six to ten years in agreement with the government organisation. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister to see if any work has taken place and how it will be handled in order to ensure that this workforce is not upset this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u10	A respectable president. What really matters is that there is talk, that you can communicate, and that you can discuss your priorities. What we have recently done is that we have spent half a day taking the lead in these total organizations and others in order to listen to their important issues. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that this is one of the issues involved when talking to the overall labour market organization, especially the employee side. I've previously expressed myself in a rather long way about the situation in terms of the equivalent of pension rights. There were always groups who, under no circumstances, refused to give up on their Kingdom responsibilities and did not want this change. Then there were others who led the conversation with the government who wanted to do so under certain circumstances. What I think can be very important about the continuation of these matters is that the overall interest in them is being put in perspective. Unfortunately, as I have been expressing myself relatively recently, I feel that the work model we have in our hands is shattered. It's very hard to get men on the same bus. It doesn't really matter where your foot is killed. Not all parties are at the framework. Not everyone was at the SALKK meeting. For now, people have been talking freezing. Each one makes his own demands, viewing the matter from the interests of his peers. It is very difficult to cover a group that is being viewed far above the platform and asks: " What are the best results for the overall population in time? That is really what I want to see happen, trying to get the conversation back into the direction that we are looking at the interests of the whole group, not from each group at a time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u11	President. I can totally agree that it is a noble goal to try to look for the interests of the group. Of course, in these huge companions, however, there are certain societies with a very special working environment and a different pressures. That's exactly what I've heard. The prime minister's discussion of a new market model would be most helpful to learn more. I realize they can't be ripped off here at such a short time, but I'd like to know how to do it. A minister sees that it looks, and he sees if more information can be made and at what location it is in the council so that we can look at it. I hope there will be some consultation with all parties, including the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u12	A respectable president. At the point that we are today, as we look back on our journey, we can see that together we have achieved amazing success in improving our rates. The recent increase in financial resources is far beyond what we can expect each year. In this situation, I believe that we should stop and accept the fact that we cannot continue to have expectations of such a tremendous increase in money, but we must look intently at how we can defend the high level of money that we have created in a relatively short period of time, building on the greater long - term growth of buying power, which must then be slower and shorter steps into the future. The challenges of the labour market model, trying to bring us closer to the Norwegian model, including the turn. that the groups do not want to be trapped in the location where they are today. [[The president calls.]] They also focus on the fact that women's work is generally less rewarded, as we see today. It is, therefore, natural to wonder, " Am I happy with it and so many other things? ' But these are all the things we can talk about and find ways out.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u13	A respectable president. The government covenant noted that it should be aimed at reducing the payment of individual health care providers. I welcome this declaration because it's one of the issues that the forward party puts emphasis on. In addition, we want access to healthcare professionals not dependent on the patient's economy. Sadly, there are too many subjects that have developed where the cost of patients is seriously burdensome and that was just discussed this week in the media. We fishermen have talked about putting a common roof on medical expenses, medical expenses, and support costs. So I ask the highest. He or she feels that he is fair enough to include patients in the bill and whether there is one common payment suit to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u14	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for a very important question. The health - care factor is a very important matter. We received a strong indication in a report from ASI last year showing that during the last 20◯25 years, the percentage of individuals in Iceland's health - care system has increased by half or more, to a high level of 18% at the most. The good news is that this has only been reduced. The government's clear policy is to reduce this share. We also know that the cost of participation varies considerably according to what is appropriate. We know that there is a high proportion of dental costs, psychological costs, and depending on the type of treatment required, on the diseases that have been affected, on the cost ratio. In addition to the major objective of reducing the mean cost ratio, it is naturally very important to address this imbalance between individuals depending on which treatment they need to be treated. As the senator knows, we are taking in a new payment system adopted at the General Assembly last year. Sadly, because computer systems and others were not ready to use the system until May 1, the system had to be delayed. There, however, it is assumed to lower the roof, level it, and lower it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, because I can see that I'm done with my time, that I'll come back to answer my ideas about the sum. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Health Minister for the patient's response and meditation. However, I have to come back with the question because I didn't get the answer, and he said that he would bring it in the next answer. But I ask him again and again, what he thinks is a fair roof for a patient's income count and whether they're looking at building a roof on medical expenses, medical expenses, and support costs so that there will be a higher overall policy on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u16	Madam President. As if I didn't get to my previous answer, there's a new cost of pharmaceuticals. We've had a little experience with that. There's your thumb, somewhere about 70,000 a year, if I remember correctly. The pay system for medical services that we are taking into account now May 1 will include the roof in the Regulation. At any rate, it is clear that on the one hand, we are looking at a roof that will be located somewhere in this space, at 50,000,400,000, for general individuals, and then much lower for children, the elderly, and the desperate. At least I think it's an important first step. There we are on the average, cutting the cost from what was just happened. I'm thinking we should head down. The last figures I've seen are that we've reached the cost of the event down to 17%. In other parts of the North, it is generally in the range of 14,8κ17%. [[The president calls.]] I feel that we should, at least, do no worse than the nations do best.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u17	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. Industrial Ministers to the declarations of environmental Ministers that there will be no allocation to new indiscriminate investment agreements due to pollution of industry. She's said that that chapter in Iceland is over. Hv. paritaprevir It's been asked by Oddný G. Harðardóttir before. Environment Minister on these matters at council. They did not explain the government's policies on the delicate interaction of the environment and the work structure. Investments to new investments are given under the framework of an indiscriminate game of 2015. Here are some conditions that must be met in order to enjoy pleasure. There is no mention of the lack of support from contaminated industry. Businesses and individuals must be equal to the law. So I ask a Industrial Minister how to achieve the targets of no damage to contaminated industry, whether or not to change the framework of injury and the level of contaminated industry is considered to be the highest degree. Minister. Does the term pollutes on projects that fall under the EU's commercial release system for which Iceland is involved? These projects can undergo assessments of environmental impact and be authorised on the basis of Icelandic legislation. Can the government's declaration be understood so that new projects could be started that could be called contaminating industry, but only if they don't get an investment contract with the Italians?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u18	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. In the government covenant, this is made clear. A senator crossed. That, of course, is what we ministers work for. It is true to say that the framework is a frame law, which means that if any tasks meet those conditions, it must be legally difficult to make extensive transfers there. I'm looking at the Ministry on the one hand, whether to change the law in order to fulfill the will and expectations we have for future projects and to establish some definition of what is contaminated big business. We know exactly or I fancy that this gray area is not very large. I think most of the projects would either be classified as a contaminating industry if they release an X-high amount of CO. 2 or not. It's a job that's going on at the Ministry. If we have to make some changes, I will bring them into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u19	Madam President. I still think the government policy on this case is unclear. This, however, was one of the few very clearly stated in the government covenant, and the political treaty is of no value unless declarations are not superior. It's good, of course, if it's the highest. So a minister intends to ask himself, " Do I need new laws to achieve government policy? ' What a disappointment it was, though, to see nothing of this in the government file! I ask again: Will a minister make such a decision, or does she have to rely on the government opposition that has actually taken this issue?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u20	You're absolutely right. Of course, a senator's office is a statement. It has neither corrected nor established as a law or a legal term nor any other legal term for it. In a government covenant, the government's will and plans were made during this terms, and this is made known. That's why I'm here saying that I'm having the Ministry examined if any change is necessary in order to fulfill a new government contract. It is true that this did not appear on the file, for the Constitution is submitted very soon after a new government takes over. This would have required a lot of work, and I'm not going to contribute bills at the council that's not well-funded or ready. It may come, not at this council, but at the next, if anything needs to be changed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't want to say any more than what I know right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u21	A respectable president. In the development of the government, the Office of the Office of the Office of Economic and Economic Affairs was transferred to the Ministry of Presidency. In response to a request from the Web site center on why this would have been made known to the highest degree. Prime Minister that it would be because the Court's independence in question was desirable for his administration and for his approval of money and gang policy to be in a ministry other than the financial structure of the state. The question is, the respectable president, when did he discover the ultimate? Is this the case with the prime minister? Was it before he accepted the office of finance minister or during his ministry as minister of finance? When such conflicting interests arose in his time as secretary of finance, the interests of whom did the Ministry of finance or the Federal Bank come on top? I'm asking about this now because at the same time I'm going to ask about big issues, big interests where there may be different priorities between the Federal Bank and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and then the Ministry of Directors, which is whether or not to compromise the policy that was set down and follow during the last term on emissions and up to the demands. I'm asking for some information about how to negotiate with a worker who didn't want to participate in the invitation made last year to let them out before they were planned. It's like the highest. A minister of man was the basic premise of the invitation that all were aware that those who were not willing to participate in the sweet, would go out last, and would thus benefit from sharing in the campaign. Is that what it is now going to be? [[The president calls.]] What is the position of the Ministry of Presidency, the Office, and the Ministry of finance to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u22	Madam President. It is good to use the core as a warrant, but no doubt to add, when asked about the reasons for bringing the Federal Bank to the Ministry of Presidency - and certainly this is the only evidence, i.e. with relatively new laws, you can see that it can have meaning for the independence of the Federal Bank not to have too much under the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the financial relations between these two parties. Among other things, I am referring to the fact that under certain circumstances, a contribution from the State may be made. But that's just one point of many. I intend to raise the role of the Ministry of Presidency to have economic management in general and to recruit the Ministry of Experts to do the same. In connection with this, it is not unusual for the Council of Presidency to be represented, as he has so often done over the years. The question here is: Has the importance of the transition changed when it comes to a plan for emissions of the sea. The short answer is that there are no big changes. It is true that special bills were made based on limitations for those who did not participate in the invitation. In fact, we followed this plan back in the fall and then back by the years, starting to clear our heads for the domestic market. Today, individuals are free to move money from one country to another far beyond what was previously valid. And as we discussed in the bill submitted to the council for the past year, government officials are now working to develop the next step in this program. It must come to that job to see how you might handle the shorebar part, but at the same time, make sure you open the possibility of further and, in fact, full of recreation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u23	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister seems to have doubts about the core as a source, but I was just referring to his own answer to that site. I think the answer is the highest. A minister does not add much. So let's let it be between parts whether the CIA is safer in the Ministry of Presidency than in the Ministry of Economics. It may have something to do with who is the secretary of finance now. A respectable president. V.E.G. In reply, the prime minister did not answer my question about how to continue with a plan, and it is important to keep that in mind. There is a treatment plan for emissions. V.E.G. A minister merely traced to what the strategy would have meant. We all know here how that plan was set up. What I'm asking the highest. Minister of, will he abandon my seemingly policies? At any rate, it has been reported in the media at any given moment. different from what was announced at the time of the decree, the representatives of the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Economics, and the Sentencing Bank have found representatives of these hedge funds to discuss whether to let them out earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u24	A respectable president. What has long been discussed in connection with the landowners is this: We are not going to sacrifice anything to make it possible for these agents to get out of the country with their possessions if it means in any way that the rest of the public, the companies in this country, rural governments and others, pension funds, are in trouble. That's what this has been all about. There has been no change in policy, there is no way to create a solution for an Off-country owner who does not, at the same time, hides that it will be possible to take over a lot of trouble. [[Up front.]] In a sense, we have been working with this same mental attitude each year when we held an invitation for an African owner. Then we were not giving them any special treatment to get their first solution before we took over the affairs of the public and the rest of the country, and in exactly the same way we are winning the case right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u25	The arrangement has been agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u26	President. Honorable senators. The report on this subject at the General Assembly is presented to my initiative in order to gather up the latest and best information about the state of climate and to provide a discussion on the next steps in these areas. I believe now is a good time to take up a discussion on climate issues at the General Assembly, where they are high on the agenda of a new government and we have also received a new analysis from the National Institute of Economics at the University of Iceland. The analysis of the Economics Agency is a warning but also an incentive. Predictions of emissions show significant increases over the years to come and that we will not remain unchanged at the target within the Kyoto Protocol in 2020 and the Paris Convention in 2030. However, it also says that we Icelanders have many opportunities to reduce emissions and increase carbon binding. Many measures are relatively cheap, and some may even yield financial profits regardless of the benefits for climate and the environment. The report discusses quite a few details about Iceland's commitment to climate. Iceland, like most countries around the world, has reported goals under the Paris Convention but also includes European rules on the basis of the EEA Convention. The importance of emissions varies depending on, for example. international flights, heavy industry, or automobiles. Displacement from the country is out of commitment, but the benefits of such measures as forestry, land healing, and the recovery of wetlands can be considered to outweigh emissions in other sectors. This is not a time to break up this rule, but it is essential that the most involved in climate projects are clearly recognized. On the ground, this project is simple. It is designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to produce carbon from the atmosphere. We are to strive to live up to our commitments according to the rules, but we are also to promote success wherever we can, regardless of where the climate benefits are transferred to a book. Where, then, should our emphasis be? Some of the key elements are listed in the report. Transport energy exchange is a project that is facing. Economics say that such things are good for the livestock, both the climate and the climate. In addition, there is an increase in energy security and pollution impacts. The same can be said of many other climate projects, which give other benefits to take into account. Travel, innovation, and industrial ministers have proposed a resolution that I expect to be the foundation of a very powerful work on that issue. Energy exchange is also possible in fishing roads. It has reduced emissions, and it would be a joy to speed up the joyful trend. In agriculture, I also find it appropriate to ask if some of the government's support can be used for climate - related projects. Land use affords big opportunities. Forests and land transplants, except carbon from the atmosphere. That's the right thing to add. Restored wetlands can reduce emissions from chronic swamps. It is the monarchy to promote a career there, but it is evident that scientific assessments of success need to be enhanced there. Iceland has been an expansive task force to take action on land use as a recognized climate action, which has sometimes come under fire. The European Union's internal rules cover how much action can be assumed in land use against other emissions. However, our support for agricultural reforms should not be minimized, which directly benefit the climate and bring benefits to a wide variety of ecology and social benefits. It is the largest source of emissions in the country and the largest increase. The big business is a part of a European business system where the responsibility is actually placed on the shoulders of an enterprise rather than directly on the authority of the government. A large business in this country has done well, releasing a very small amount of production unit. Nevertheless, governments must take a big part in the bigger picture. The Declaration of the Government states that there will be no more indiscriminate agreements with contaminated industry. It has been carried out with a sense of urgency over the years, which is now changing. I think it's right to watch, for example. for energy exchange on the use of our renewable energy in the near future. I could mention more than just stop here. We need to understand, though, that there is no single magic solution, no one task that can solve everything. We need to move forward wherever we can see results and priorities that are most practical and that yield a wide range of benefits. It is clear that these actions will not be performed automatically. Governments need to push them into reality and make a plan for what will be done best. It takes green taxes and incentives. There are laws in the Declaration of Policy to add the tax system to that direction. It needs funding. Not all costs are spent, but projects of this magnitude cannot be dealt with without costing anything. They need understanding. We need to introduce climate issues to the government's plans where appropriate. It needs intelligence. Icelandic scientists and businesses have achieved excellent results on climate - related solutions. There's a resource that needs to be activated more effectively. Most important of all is the will. It takes good cooperation and consultation. The Environmental and Resource Ministry can't guarantee results on its own. There are many, perhaps most, governments, but even the State's authority can change what is needed. This is a place where everyone has to lie down on the years; the careers, societies, universities, social groups, and the public. We will continue to follow the 2010 Action Programme and strive to achieve our commitments within the Kyoto Protocol before 2020. I intend to launch a 2030 action programme as soon as possible and plan it at the end of the year. In this regard, it is important to have a good cooperation within the board of directors and noncounsels. In addition to that plan, I would also like to implement a guide on how to minimize greenhouse gas emissions and preferably reach non-carbonization by 2050. It's important to live up to Iceland's commitment to 2030, but it's just as necessary to shape our future and long-term vision. I can see that the climate Council, which the Council concluded last year, can have a leading role in making such a road guide. I don't expect everyone to agree on every action and emphasis to reduce climate change, and I just think it's good to look at the benefits and reason on the best ways to build up good information. But I am optimistic that we can find good harmony at the World Council and in the community to promote activities in climate and go to work with the will and optimism of the people. Iceland may not weigh heavily on the world's release textbooks, but our conduct can be a source of guidance if it is successful. We can be proud of the thermal industry and the fact that almost 100% energy to power and heating comes from renewable energy sources. That certainly is good for us today. Still, we must not lose our sense of urgency. In Iceland, emissions are nearly twice as much as in Europe. We don't have enough opportunities. The aims and commitments of the international community on greenhouse gas emissions will become more severe in the future, and it will cost Iceland, in direct, money, if we don't fill our share of that commitment. That is one reason why we need to expand our climate activities. A less difficult reason is that solutions require solutions and solutions are opportunities. Modern science, whether in earth's heat, green shipping technology, or the use of carbon dioxide on Hellishi, can bring us and other solutions to the future. I believe Iceland can be the leader of climate states. Headship calls for sense, will and power. The report on the state and policy of climate is designed to increase knowledge and understanding of the subject and its situation. The discussion here can resolve a desire for fine works. That will have to be accomplished in political and financial power to accomplish it. I thank you for this opportunity to introduce this report, and I look forward to hearing what I have to say. Councilmen are talking about the matter and sharing in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u27	A respectable president. First, I want to commend the highest. Environment and resource minister, both for the highest resources. The minister said in his speech, and I can wholeheartedly agree, not least for the new tone we are discussing in the report we are discussing here. It is refreshing, to say the least, to read panels of environmental and climates that look realistically at the situation, since feathers are not necessarily being pulled over or dressed with stolen feathers. I'd like to commend the highest. Ministers for that, despite yesterday's international complimentary date, it's fine to extend it. Corporates such as, by the permission of the president: It is not always possible to refer to the ancient thermal industrializations as an example of Iceland's advisability in climate ◯, it sounds good. That's what we've done, last of all, just in the policy-making program where the first sentence of a report is quite a compliment. I want to talk about what we have to do, like the highest. Minister called in. I agree with the highest. Minister it may need to be. I welcome the will of the world. Minister's showing. Some of the things needed to be done are mentioned in a further report, but it has to be said, as it is, that there is a lack of any knowledge of what to do, what to return it to less emissions, and what cost it will cost. This will likely be the case in the conversation we will have and the work that will follow. The cost is especially important. It is not easy to make dramatic statements on how we are going to achieve remarkable environmental success, but if a direct ear -mark operation program is not available, much action is not expected. I think, for example. That it was then the highest. Environment Minister Guðmundur Bjarnason, who first mentioned it as an operation in climates that it would have to enable the fleet to use electricity in its ports. That was 1995, and it has not yet come true. Reports at the top. Environment Minister is fine for his hat, nice ground for discussion. But what's there, e.g. the financing? In fact, the report itself, with the permission of a president, has been addressed: Although specific funding has been used through the years, many developed countries have some kind of funding programs to promote innovation and solutions to achieve emissions targets. Then there is the appearance of a climate application program of 250 million. K. Each year and more, talking about the future government income from sales of ETS on European markets, which is well. It would have been good if the climate Fund, established during the season 2009 ◯2013, had not been removed from the reception of the highest level. The last government. Had that not been done, we would have had more money to work on and support innovation. It is good to draw up the position and realize that we will not meet the Kyoto Protocol targets for 2020 in spite of the expert regulations, as this report says. It's good to have a good time. Environment Ministers recognize this and include it in the report. It is clear that in the years to come, e.g. the value of increasing their expenses to buy at ETS clearances as it is morning light that their prices will rise. It will be interesting to see how corporations that do not all work too well according to their own standards are coping with this growing cost, since there is no way the State will come to that, or what? Speaking of the industry, it's a pleasure to be the highest. Ministers speak as they speak about her. As explained in the recent report by the National Institute of Economics, Iceland's University on Climate Turbulence will be reduced, other means must be searched. But what's the big movie? As a community, what do we need to do? We need to integrate the measures and policies we have proposed. The plan for transport energy exchange needs to be discussed with all the other plans. How are we going to reach the goal that 2025 can link all ships in ports? What's it got to do with a plan for power lines? I don't think the electrical power system will have been strengthened so in 2025 that it will be possible. We all need to get together, we need a funded operation plan, we need the cooperation of all government levels, we need serious partnerships with rural society, our job life, getting climates into education. It should not matter where good ideas come from. Let's reimburse the board, put the environment in foregrounds, work together, no matter where we stand, no matter where the ideas come from. Well, it's the environment of us all.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u28	President. I'll be compliments to the highest. Environment Minister. I am very happy to see the emphasis that has been made in the report, but I also want to encourage the highest. Minister to action and offer to cooperate. I think it's necessary, when we're talking about long-term plans, decades into the future, that we're going to trace it by getting cross-cutting an agreement on that strategy, and it's necessary that this work also takes place at the council scene, and I think it's necessary to build up an effort to further cooperation on major issues. Pirats and I have taken a very ambitious policy on climate and I would like to tear it down only here so that it is clear that these words have a great deal of responsibility and support from the grass roots of Piranta. It is very important, when we look at the problems we face as a nation in relation to all mankind and the great woes facing our planet's environment that we take into account the entire matter. It's not just emissions, it's the lifestyle, it's the plastic, it's acidification of the sea, consumption practices, and crazy methods of transporting goods from abroad. I never forget when I heard that one result of the Eyjafjörður eruption was upset and troubled in Kenya because farmers couldn't send tulips to Holland. This seems to me to be a reflection of what we're dealing with nature and the consequences of our actions. But I have so little time that I have to stop speaking freely and go over our policies of Pirata. Climate change and the challenges they face are one of the most important challenges of modern politics. What means will be used to prevent further irreversible effects on earth's environment and our quality of life is important. The extinction of animal species, the ongoing drought, and the change in climate that affects the world's crops and security are among other factors. The consequences of changing climates that need to be controlled. Piranians want Iceland to take a clear stand against further oil search and oil development in the economic history, want the polluters to provide more than conventional taxes and to use economic incentives to reduce emissions of pollution in the environment. Pirates want Iceland to lead on climate issues, take action that meet the conditions of the Paris Convention, and set the example for other nations to do the same. The aim of Pirata's action policy on climate is to fulfill Iceland's international commitments and to take responsibility for the case that results in significant and real success and long-term improvements. Our objective plan says: 1st The legislation should ensure that in all approved Parliaments and the long term programmes of the government, natural protection, as well as the direct and indirect costs, including greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants, are guided. 2. Factors that release pollutants in the environment should always carry the costs, in accordance with the pollution control and precautions. 3. Greenhouse gas emissions: a. Greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced in accordance with the Paris Convention by 2025, about 40%, and that other emissions of these materials will be virtually absent in the year 2040. b. The wood should be built for electrical, biosecured vehicles and ships. c. Similarly, the Kingdom will contribute to and support the pollution of public transportation and the use of electrical riding wheels. For example, the introduction of the 6th MARPOL Convention will immediately provide protection against marine pollution from ships so that the marine environment of Iceland will become an ECA area and ships allowing emissions of sulphur levels to be less than 0.1%. The treatment and use of black oil should be completely banned in Iceland's waters by 2025. f. ships sailing on Icelandic land weekends without leaving, should pay land cover, and it is higher for ships that do not have blue flags, environmental witnesses, or other untraceable proofs to show that MARPOL's regulations are fulfilled in the ship. G. A ambitious projection of greenhouse gas emissions from land use, such as deforestation, mining, groundwater, and so forth. h. policy to significantly reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from animal and land. This should be taken into account in a new agricultural policy. i. Forest development and land healing should be intensified in agrienvironmentous land, but in accordance with national planning and other rules. j. Specific measures should be taken to complete the recovery of wetlands by 2025. K. Iceland is to take a clear stand against further oil search and oil development in economic history. 4. Economic inducers should be used to reduce pollution emissions in the environment. a. Any activity that releases pollutants in the environment should provide more than standard taxes. b. Meningational rocks should be higher than the amount of best available pollution technology in each case. c. The knowledge, financial incentive, and structure of tourism should be intensified with little or no emissions of pollutants, such as walking, riding, and using public transportation. For example, other vehicles and machines using fossil fuels should carry a pollutant in the form of carbon tax, which is progressive as fuel consumption and emissions of air pollutants are increased. We have quite a few more suggestions on what you can do, but this is all too short of the time we have here to discuss such a big deal. But I'm celebrating this report. I'm celebrating maximum course. Ministers and once again we're invited to cooperate. I'm the highest. A minister to look at Pirata's environmental policy with focus on climate issues because it teaches various useful grasses and many of the experts we've had the advantage to work with experts who have been counseling for the Ministry. I hope we can take this work here at the Council and that, as we have seen, we will take on the necessary schedule as well as on how we can find funds to carry out the necessary strategy in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister very much for the share she puts in this discussion, and her course, which is truly good for us, as we have seen, is certainly because we are faced with a certain disaster that we need to react if the situation is not worse. We'll discuss the Environment Minister's report on climate change, and I would like to have a brief look at emissions reported in a new report by Iceland's Economic Institute on Iceland and Climate. Iceland is a member of the 2015 Paris Convention and validated it in September 2016. In November of that year, the Icelandic government produced a climate - related application program that aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is assumed that energy exchanges will be increased by transport, by electrical vasodilatation, by reduction in marine emissions, by climate - changing agriculture, by deforestation, by land healing, by the recovery of wetlands, by state - management carbon balance, and by the efforts to combat food waste. Emissions of greenhouse gases have increased by 15% in Iceland since 1990/2014 if the carbon net binding is taken along, without which about 29% is the case. When we consider the share of the classifications presented in the report of the Economics Agency on emissions by percent, it is clear that emissions from energy production in Iceland are relatively small compared to other countries, where we have 99% of electricity production here on a land produced by hydropower and aquifers that is believed to be renewable energy. We had over 90% of homes in Iceland with a heating system, or what they call geothermal energy. Total energy output in 2014 is estimated to be 5%, so there is a lot of access here. We are to make even more use of this clean and renewable energy. Vision pollution from an electric line must be less effective when it comes to relapse than energy consumption, such as coal and oil, which increase greenhouse gas emissions, with consequences. It's shocking to know that e.g. Filtering at Nessút requires a million tons of oil to be burned annually in their activities because electricity cannot be obtained. It tells us that sooner than later, we need to make a decision on how we are going to build a settlement that is very important to our work structure and important for reducing emissions and greenhouse gas pollution. If we look at our transportation, they have a total flow of about 19% of them, and that is the most important thing that comes from the road vehicles, or 93%. The international flight, which you might have thought had a bigger share, is responsible for 5% and 2% of this 19% overall. Since the fishing industry, it has reduced emissions by 10% in 2014 and is the longest, 98%, of course, from the fishing fleet. This shows the importance of being able to extract the main fishing vessel and send it off with electricity that comes from renewable energy sources. It is striking that 45% of the total emissions are from industrial and chemical use. Of course, the largest emissions from aluminium production are 67%. Others, such as iron farms, come from construction projects in 18% and 7%, respectively. The overall increase in emissions in this category is 79% from 1990-2014. However, it is noteworthy that the production of aluminium in Iceland increased in those years ten times, from 88 levels. to your 839 ton. each ton of tons in this country has a minimum share in today's world. Forest and land healing, of course, are essential and have bound 4.2 billion. tons of carbon between 1990/2014. In 2014, the total volume was 4,600 tons, but the binding through forestry and land healing was 429. a ton. It is very important to look for ways to increase forestry and agriculture, and, of course, measures that work to reduce emissions and greenhouse gases and the status we are in right now. To do this, nations of the world were united in the Paris convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u30	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Environment Minister for the report and the discussion taking place here today. We fishermen have put great importance on climate matters. There are several global challenges that confront us in the world, and it is vital that the nations cooperate with them. The climate is evidently the most proud of all, with its negative effects all over the world, the disparagement of the quality and serious environmental consequences, as if for us to be affected by the acidification of the sea. In fact, there are other issues, such as antibiotic resistance and pollution in general, which respect no borders and are important for all countries. Therefore, we Icelanders have a positive attitude that our situation is generally very good. We took an active part in working with the Paris Treaty and, fortunately, a deal with the world's states in December 2015, and a year later, the agreement went into effect worldwide. because Iceland validated the contract in September 2016 and was among 55 of the first states to do so. As noted in this report, the 2010 effectiveness programme for limiting emissions to 2020 is in place and should be within the first period of the Kyoto Protocol, i.e. 2008◯2012, we met the requirements. It's important to make a new operation plan, and I agree with the highest level. Minister on how Iceland is going to achieve its declared targets to 2030. The Paris Convention also estimated that by 2020 the world will have come to an opinion of some sort of reduction guide to 2050. What I felt was lacking in this report, and I'm going to criticize the minister a little, and go a little over it, is that there have been things done. For example, the application program established by the advanced government is not considered much, a report published by the Environment Ministry in October 2016, and should be reimbursed in the highest level. Ministers because the Paris Convention went into effect worldwide. The program adopted by the government on climate issues in the lead in the 2015 Paris Summit is based on 16 projects. It goes to three years, and it is the first global programme for climate services based on financial projects and is, in particular, intended to stimulate people for good works in this area, i.e. representative of professional life, scientists, institutions, and public. I'll get in on it a little later. I'd like to use this opportunity to ask the minister if there is no standing to follow this schedule, which is 250 million. K. every year to the next three years. That includes 67 million. K. to three years for the electrical vehicle. Maybe it's not enough, but we're in some place, we've done things, and we've got things going right on. So it can be added, but does it not exist to fulfill it? It is a very interesting project called the Sea, which many are involved in, and it is a fine example of the representative of professional life, scientists, institutions, financial institutions, politics, and governments, and others involved in the case, which are a means of recession in the fishing road. I don't know how much the ocean route would trust to reduce emissions by 40%, including 40%. By renewing a ship, because one of the things that are positive to Iceland's fishing system is that the application is less expensive, a ship uses less oil. We've seen it very clearly in recent years. That's 10 billion. K. year for the next three years. Farming, which certainly needs to be taken care of, is about 10 million. K. Set each year for the next three years. The forestry site has 65 billion projects. K. for the next three years. That's how you could count it for a long time. The land - healing school, which is an important development project where we are coming up and we also put about $1 million, or $200 a year, for five years, in the green climate Fund, this global one. I'd like to, because it's going fast now, to ask the minister two, three questions. So I feel that this report is missing on the development of a general energy market in Iceland. There is evidence that electricity is missing in many parts of the world. There is also evidence that the use of oil in some areas has become less expensive and that there is a level of employment for cleaning, with clearly negative results. Then we come to a frame plan which remains on the basis of activation options. I'd also like to take this opportunity, although it's not directly related, but indirectly. If we're going to start producing electricity for sale through sea cables, how will the Minister handle it? You see, it's all connected with climate. What are we doing here, including? in a large industry where we use eco-friendly renewable electricity to produce products? And then we say, and a new government, we've taken major steps in the climate in Iceland by quitting the appeal for a major industry. All right. We may have enough of such projects. Does this mean, though, that such projects will be carried out in other areas, other parts of the world where the coal world is being used? What, then, is the overall impact on global climate? We need to discuss climate as a global problem, not a unique problem. You see, we're doing quite well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u31	A respectable president. These issues, climate issues, are being discussed around the world, and I would like to make up the subject of an article published last week in The Economist magazine, entitled ◯Clean Energy's Dirty Little Secret, i.e. The dirty secret of pure energy. In fact, I think the editors of this magazine may have used certain styles to draw readers into it because when the article is read, it will reveal that many positive things are taking place in these topics. Nevertheless, certain challenges related to these matters are highlighted, and I think it is good for us to keep them in mind. As mentioned here, this problem is global, and it is good for us to know what it is that our friends in other countries have to fight and possibly draw from some conclusions for Iceland as well. But I'm going to describe it with a certain parable. We can imagine a town in continental Europe, Germany, a town run by about 100 megawatts, its electrical demand for about 100 megawatts. This town has an old-fashioned coal power plant that one of these demand. The town's inhabitants are aware of the environment and demand that it be prevented from being driven by vast environmental energy sources, such as wind - power investments. If this is done at the time of a recession, as has been going on in recent years, 2010 e.g., there is, in fact, a much greater power capacity without the need for electricity production being increased. What happens then? Yes, the electrical price is reduced, making the need for investing in the electricity industry less and not investing in renewable coal power plants but making investments in all the areas in which the state's will is applied, which involves wind power. But well, it's going well, and now it's got nice windmills that can make this town's energy demand more energy at the same time as the coal power plant remains. It may just be nice, people are happy with this result. But maybe it's a little worse to fire the coal power plant now than before because every time wind blows, the coal power plant is used only when it is calm. When combined with a lower power price, an increase often leads to contaminated electricity production and the fact that it is always better to use wind energy, it is only a loss of the coal power plant, which means that its operating ground is reduced. They may be going to close it, but then the inhabitants say, "No, no, you can't, because it's an essential system for us to deal with when the winds fail. " One result of this must be that it needs to be strengthened and supported by a state of energy plant so that it does not go away. It's not just some sort of prepised parable, it's been happening. This has happened in Europe, the United States, and China. This is a challenge that humans face, including a challenge. in that many of the electricity systems of these countries are not built around electricity production, since a component of renewable energy and a component of electricity is equally large. They are built around electricity production based on coal and nuclear and oil, where humans can pretty much control how much electricity is produced each time. The article suggests a number of things that need to be kept in mind. First, change the distribution systems so that they can better react to such electricity production and second, to find better ways to store electricity both in the manufacturing process and then possibly in people's homes through improved batteries. Third, a change in prices might be made in order to charge electricity so that the stress in the system can be spread better. We do well to keep this in mind, for despite the fact that our electricity production is largely the largest part of renewable energy that can control how much is produced by, i.e. We're about to go into the transport sector, so we're very lucky in this regard, but we're going to go into the energy exchange programme and we might have a similar problem there. We're going to put money in it and encourage people to use environmental energy but we're going to have some kind of a backup-to-back system that's going to stay based on an old-fashioned and contaminated fuel supply that's gas. We need to keep in mind if there is anything we can learn from this experience so that we will not be able to put large investments into this clean system but, in some way, have to subsidate what is unclean because we want to keep it in mind as long as that energy exchange takes place. This was an interesting point, and I wanted to share it with the Senate and with the listeners.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u32	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking our birthday baby of the day and the highest. Environment Minister for the necessary and excellent report discussed here. The report highlights the value available by Icelanders in the form of eco-friendly energy sources and how we have been able to make use of it, including for general house warming. But it also paints a somewhat darker picture of our way of life. Thus, the report says that emissions of greenhouse gas per Iceland are less than three times the average global population and twice the population of the European Union. We are also just over the OECD average. It also shows that our emissions have increased by 26% over the last 25 years but are fused by 24% in the European Union at the same time as the emissions by 33◯79% in terms of carbon binding, agriculture and forestry to 2030. There are few or no examples of such increases in other developed countries. We remember, then, that it is difficult to fulfill our international commitments. This must move us to do much better in this regard. An extended report, a bill on energy exchange, and other factors, of course, give the belief that the government intends to take this important project seriously. Granted, there are also regulations in the Treaty that no further indiscriminate agreements will be made, e.g. to pay for the introduction of contaminating heavy industry in this country. In fact, it is the problem of Njörður's gift that nothing has been reported on how the government intends to follow it. No cases have been offered to ensure that this course can be constructed. Although the words of a individual minister may weigh heavily, they are not laws or regulations. Either the government must provide such changes in the legal environment that support these schemes or the government's situation must take care of it and do so. There are some excellent suggestions in the report that can help us in our fight for climate goals. These include energy exchanges, climate - related agriculture, agriculture and forestry, the recovery of wetlands, etc. These are all very important subjects. It is noteworthy, though, that this is hardly a factor that is certain that we could achieve one of the best results and be effective as we improve the well - being and the public health of the people of the country. I'm here talking about a urban organization, Madam President. True, the council has been presented with ambitious suggestions for energy change, as I mentioned earlier. Although this is a wonderful step, it can be said that we are responding to symptoms rather than to prevent the disease from occurring. It is not enough to advance the private car on eco-friendly sources of energy, we need to reduce its use because it encourages unsuspecting development. It is important to shape ambitious suggestions on sustainable development in urban areas, thus supporting the rural governments that have taken their action and have encouraged others to go on the same path. Today, man - made engineering is believed to be responsible for about 30% of the world's carbon emissions. That is where we have the best chance of reducing carbon emissions and thus successfully fighting climate. Especially in a country where about 70% of the population lives in cities and towns that are so large. The way to build and organize is not a matter of taste or freedom. It requires much more infrastructure, not just animals in construction and operating, but more than any environmental mess. It also reduces the likelihood of efficient public transportation, encourages, or forces, an increasing car traffic that once again encourages expansion, thus indirectly becoming a cycle of Vitite and a major component of oxygen emissions. So, first of all, we need to organize all urban areas so that it takes into account the three pillars of sustainability; environmental, economic, and social factors. Second, we need to use modern power and rethink the inculturation with a view to making it more efficient. Third, we need green taxes and motivations. Fourth, we need to strengthen public transportation, stimulate the use of the land, and increase the possibility of getting somewhere walking and riding. And, of course, the use of eco-friendly energy is increasing at the expense of fossil fuels. Finally, we need to improve the education of the common people, which aims to make us citizens rather than consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u33	A respectable president. I thank you, like everybody else, the highest. Minister for this important report and celebrate the discussion. I'm glad we're discussing climate policy today. Environmental and climate issues are no longer private idealists, key priorities for future economic growth and survival. No task today is more urgent than to stem the trend that we face. True, it is good to have thermals all in our time, but we need to do much better. The Icelandic government has mainly worked after the Kyoto Protocol, and during the last term, a three-year application program was set up that contains 16 projects to sharpen Iceland's climate focus. There are a number of assignments that are especially important. These include the energy exchange program. A report by the Environment and Resource Minister contains a specific section affecting transport and water transport energy exchange. True, there have been good and positive steps in this direction within the framework of the Action Programme. These include the reduction in pay and taxes on climate - related cars and fuel and the strength to the infrastructure of electric cars. However, these actions could be much bigger and larger because we have a key role in the electricalisation of the transportation. Transport was responsible for 19% of total flows in Iceland in 2014, as noted earlier today. It was noted in the past that we are doing well, especially because of our access to renewable energy sources and heat - industrialisation. However, our release is still far too great. That's where we can do better. Although our emissions do not weigh heavily on the world's emissions, our conduct can imitate others and become a model for those who wish to do well. If we want to do good, we need to reflect in the cooperation of our government, our community, our business, and the general public and I trust that we will be able to put aside the interests of the individual parties and pay for public interests to be on top. As individuals and consumers, we too can add much weight to the scales by taking little steps to become aware of our consumption and behavior. Being conscious is the first step, and many little steps will bring us far if we want to. I believe it is our important role here, responsible for these future policies, to increase our awareness in this category. Many are already doing well and are interesting to observe it and see groups here at work picking up plastics that are going to the sea. I would like to mention, in particular, Reykjavíkurburg, who is struggling to implement eco-friendly transport and urban areas with this objective in mind. Arrangements and Vistity also work very well in these areas, and I welcome it. It's interesting to watch what they're doing. It will be interesting to observe and participate in a new plan of action, and I am quite optimistic about our mutual success in this class.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u34	Mr. President. We'll discuss a report with you at the highest level. Environment and resource minister on climate status and policy. For one thing, I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for the report, and especially for keeping the record straight about how terrible Iceland's climate situation is. V.E.G. Environmental and resource ministers are not drawn up by the fact that the government has been very successful in terms of climate change and change measures. When it comes to the situation, the minister is very realistic, and the huge campaign that Icelanders need to resolve in order to reverse the trend. That word is the highest. Ministers compete with a recent report by the National Institute for Economics at the University of Iceland in Iceland and in the climate. What's the development? Greenhouse gas emissions increased here by 26%. However, at the same time greenhouse gas emissions have fallen by 24% in 28 European countries. This is a 50% difference between emissions of greenhouse gases in the country and in those countries. According to the secretary's report, the 2030 Action Programme is still on the table and is not officially started. I'd like to encourage the highest. Ministers and experts in the Environment and Resource Ministry for good work there and it seems to me that there is a good way, as suggested in the report, to coordinate a climate-based application schedule with the strategy. I really hope that the plan of action will become clear as soon as possible, and I'm happy that I will be adamant in the operation program set up by the government of the Left Green and Controversies in 2010. I'd like to keep it to the highest level. A minister to put too much hope in recovery of wetlands is one of the key measures needed to manage climate change. True, it is good work to support others, but it is clear that science, which is a fundamental estimate of emissions in wetlands, and the results of this action are far less effective than in terms of agriculture and forestry. I'd also like to give the highest attention. Advisory to rely on marketing solutions when it comes to the release of brovotes, which are at the highest level. Environment and resource ministers are expected to investigate, a very controversial way of releasing countries from their basic obligation to reduce greenhouse gases and their emissions. General agreements on drastic measures to manage climate change are key here as well as elsewhere. This is especially true of the present government. I'm sorry to say that all her ministers are walking in the same rhythm as the highest. Environment Minister when it comes to highlighting practical measures to help prevent climate change. For films, I haven't heard the highest. Jón Gunnarsson, secretary of transportation, spoke a lot of things about the need for public transport after he became a minister. But the minister has spoken much more about setting priors to the miseries in the capital area when it comes to transportation in the largest area of the country. All Ministers of the Government of Independence Party, Bright Future, and Corrections agree with the Government's declaration in the Government Treaty, which says, by permission of Presidents: ▪ There will be no upcoming investment agreements due to the development of contaminated industry. That word has the highest power. Environment Minister repeated. V.E.G. The environmental minister also spoke in his talk about green taxes and the need to increase the number of taxes within the tax system. That's where we agree, but I don't think all government ministers agree with that emphasis. It's fun to remember a newspaper article at the top. Minister of Justice Sigríður On. Andersen, who wrote in the Morning newspaper for green motivation on February 12 of the past. In the newspaper article, the minister brought up green taxes and green incentives and economic and economic strengths with serious doubts and warned against them directly, contrary to the government covenant. Madam President. Climate change is serious. Iceland has to take really good care of her pants, and it's going to be a lot better when it comes to climate change. On this point, a new report by the Institute for Economics at the University of Iceland testifies to climate. That's where the picture is very dark, to say the least. Iceland has to take on responsibility, and we all have to lie down and do much better than has been done in recent years, and not just to correct the international reputation of Iceland, which is expected to be unsatisfactory. According to both reports at the highest level. For Iceland to meet its international commitments, such as the Kyoto Convention and the recent signing of the Paris Convention, the secretary and report of the National Institute of Economics of the University of Iceland need almost a miracle. But our global commitment and commitment are not only about reputation but also about quality of life and viable environment and the society of future generations because climate change and its impact are mankind's greatest project at present, and I do not detract anything from that dramatic language.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u35	A respectable president. We'll discuss the report of the Environment and Resource Minister on the state and policy of climate. In some ways, this report is a strange document; a series of paradoxs, cross - references, going through many fields, taking off and down. I'm going to take a quote from this fine report, with president's permission: ▪ In many ways, we have a good view of climate. The main target is to reach all electricity production and house - to - house use renewable energy. However, the situation in Iceland is far from good. Greenhouse gas emissions account for about 14 tons of carbon dioxide per capita, a total of 4.9 tons worldwide, 7.4 tons per European Union (EU) and an average of 13 tons in OECD countries. Emissions have increased by 26% in Iceland between 1990 and 2015. At the same time, emissions have fallen by 24% in total in 28 EU countries. A recent forecast in the University of Iceland Economic Institute (HHHI) report suggests that emissions can increase by 535.99% of the country to 2030 but less than we do, or 33◯79%, if taken into account by land healing and forestry. There are probably few or no examples of such predictable emissions to 2030 in other developed countries. This is serious news there, and I continue, by permission of the President: The newest EU emissions indicate that Iceland will find it difficult to fulfill its commitments within the framework of Kyoto Protocol to 2020. The 2010 action programme has aimed towards that and for the first years after the purpose of the operation, emissions were further reduced to an average level by expectations. The new emissions for 2015, however, indicate that emissions are activated or re-examined... Most of the increase in emissions up to now and in existing forecasts is from industry. This industry needs to obtain emissions within the EU business system (ETS) and emissions are on their own. They need to be released and released, and they themselves have their carbon accountings within the ETS system. The Icelandic government is then directly responsible for the percentage of emissions outside the ETS. While governments do not have to be directly responsible for the increase in emissions from major industry, Iceland is still heading for its own commitment within the Kyoto Protocol to 2020 or to the Treaty of Paris to 2030. Iceland has every opportunity to become the head of climate control. Few or no countries have as good an opportunity to electricalize transportation. There is great potential for increasing soil carbon binding and vegetation, reducing emissions from the most advanced wetlands and generally improving natural resources. Many Icelandic companies are at the front of climate - dependent technology and renewable energy. The awareness of the climate problem and the interest in solutions has increased dramatically in recent years, and more and more rural areas and companies are developing climate policies. A respectable president. It's amazing. This place is all horny. It's a bunch of pessimism and pessimism. Farmers and businesses - they have a progressive climate policy. Yeah, yeah, they've certainly done it, and it's great, that's great. But what about the government? What will she do about these matters? Yes, it says the report on position and policy. It's a general policy. It's coming in on some of the key elements. One of them turns to energy exchange and is referred to the synonym of tourism, industrial and innovation of the action programme in those substances. Here's a suggestion mentioned. When I read it from the printery, I noticed many things in it. I remembered that I had read all of this in an earlier document from the previous government, from the last legislation. A respectable president. This energy exchange action plan is not a reason for great optimism if I am to say exactly what it is. It's actually similar to the old one. That is, then, the exact same value. Word is tied up in a single place. The biggest change is that deadlines are extended. The old operation programme includes deadlines by category of materials. Some of them are on January 1, 2017; obviously, it is a little late now, others and most of them are on January 1, 2020, i.e. in the old operation programme. In the new world, men have decided to make a little more space, and now all of this will be completed in five years. And it's rather fun if I'm supposed to say it right now, a respectable president. One change I noticed is that when more than 22 passengers in the new program are referred to as reimbursed, there are over 16 passengers in the old class. In another place, one small law has been cleared of clean - powered vehicles and their priority in transporting humans. A respectable president. There's more to it than that. We need to do more, the future of future generations is at stake.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u36	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss the report of the Environment and Resource Minister on the state and policy of climate change. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Environment and resource secretary to congratulate you on your report. The report is a good entry into the assignment that Iceland and I, like other nations, have reached an agreement to go on, i.e. reduction greenhouse gas emissions The report shows that the plan of action should primarily be based on the diagnosis of Iceland's High School of Economics, which was introduced last month, Iceland, and climate. I might also want to reiterate that this is a definite introduction to the discussion because, of course, we're going to progress on this, it's not as if it's the final piece of paper to go to 2030, we're going to work and we're seeing this for a long time. So much work is yet to be done. However, what I really like about the Economic Institute report is that statistical data come into play over various issues, and this is better understood, so we can see more clearly how we need to handle our individual assignments. A report by the National Institute of Economic Research (HI) currently presented in February suggests that Iceland has the potential to reduce the net emissions and the estimated cost of any operation that I have not seen before. There are eight emphasis points: Transport energy exchange. Actions aim to achieve a 10% share of ecological renewable energy by 2020. Today, this ratio has come in about 6% and has grown rapidly in all the last phases. As we observe and are interested in this, we know that in the last three months of our last year, we saw significant changes in the purchase of eco-friendly cars. However, it should be noted that the rental car purchases large amounts of imported automobiles in Iceland, and it does not have the same motivation as the public to buy eco-friendly cars. That must be kept in mind. But then we return to the Economic Institute report. There's a second dot of electric cars and an extension of national infrastructure. Actions are aimed at strengthening the main infrastructure, such as the preparation of fast - loading stations. A third point is the guide of a marine outlet through emissions. Action aims to reduce emissions by 40% in the oceans in 2030 compared to 1990. The report also shows that emissions have greatly reduced since 1990. The number of ships has been reduced and the rate of burning is reduced on fossil fuels. Then there is high expectations for new technologies in ships that are being displayed in the latest ships, where screws are larger and fuel needs are considerably reduced. It will be exciting to observe how this will affect the seabed. Then it's a climate-based agriculture. It will be done to provide road-by-line data on agriculture. The report on the growth of forestry and land healing. It is estimated that they will contribute more money to forestry and land healing. Restored wetlands. A project aimed at restoring wetlands is estimated to be set up. It's a state-of-the-state carbon balance. Strengthening projects that contribute to carbon balance in the business of the state. It's an effort to avoid food waste. Paint tasks that help to reduce food waste I'm going to highlight two points here. On the one hand, I am reminded of a project set up in 20103/42011, of green energy and energy exchange, which turns them to electric cars, loading stations, and fast - loading stations, and so on. These weeks are a lot to do. I guess that's about it. two to three weeks from the circulation of 201 million government funds. K. for the next three years, 67 million. K. every year, i.e. 40% is up to half a billion that are going to be used for heavy - charge and quick loading in the country. It is taking a big, important step. I'd also like to mention forestry and land healing, which is one of the dots. Me and the Icelanders have been putting about 250 million. K. in the forest industry in recent years, into the plant. This is a lot to say in the reports, especially in the Institute of Economics, that it could be very effective. It is a question of whether it is time for us to consider the forestry laws, whether or not we will see anything that needs to be changed there, as well as a national forestry program, whether we are interested in adding to it at the High Council. It is very interesting to read about the results in the report. I know less about land healing, but I'm pretty sure that land transplants and forestry are interested in working together on these issues and I'm fully ready for that job. Then I'd just like to mention the importance of working with the native communities in the country, the presence of the population and other factors, which have a profound impact on this. This report does not say much, but it may need to be considered further. Now I know from Akureyri that there has been a targeted massmaking since 2006, that was a decision, a huge and intense effort. We've got Vista, we've got methadone production there, and we've got these factors. We're doing a lot of things, and this is really exciting. I don't want to be too pessimistic on these matters. I think there have been many good steps in the past year and years. I think we're on the right track with many of them. Of course, we need to do well, but we need to work hard and do something.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u37	A respectable president. I want to be like others to thank the highest. Minister for this fine report. It is quite tore up the climate situation today, and of course what we can do for the future is encouraged. In itself, this report may not contain much new information except for the University of Economics that is added to our long - term discussion of climate problems. There has been a mention of an application program on climate matters that started by the forwarding government of the move groups and by the independent party. It's a pleasure to see that the current government intends, as I understand this whole thing, continue with that plan. Of course, all of this actually began a long time earlier. It is important to remember that Iceland is not isolated when discussing climate issues. We are part of the world, the global problem of climate. As a result, we also need to look at things from that point of view, not only from ourselves. I'm going to leave at the short time I have to review the exact steps possible in Iceland, but I'd like to say one thing: We can't disappear from the schedule we've had to drive the country up and also increase public awareness about how it can reduce emissions not only greenhouse gas but also better treat the environment in general, i.e. To classify the garbage and the like. Iceland is not an isolated phenomenon in all of this, so the current government has to concentrate on the international projects that Iceland has taken part in, is behind, or has even taken the lead in developing. I'd like to mention a so-called global geothermal group, Iceland's Global Geoterminal Alliance, with IRENA, an international agency of renewable energy, initiative to form. He was set up in Paris, in the big and remarkable meeting. This is an important area to increase the knowledge and use of earth's heat in the world. At the same time, the last government decided to put 1 billion. A dollar in the green climate Fund between 2016-2020 and the importance of keeping up with it and continuing to strengthen that fund. It becomes clear that Iceland is taking on great responsibility when it reaches the north within a few years. It is very important that the packages that we offer in the prehuman society of those days be looked particularly to the climate. We have, in fact, stressed that projects related to climate change and environmental change in the North East are getting sufficient attention. Finally, I'd like to mention regarding this international king that it is very important that we share our knowledge and experience in the international community. I mean the United Nations University. We have even. Strengthen especially the land - healing school, which is very important and can contribute tremendously to international and global issues if we introduce and show people and the world the results that we have achieved in terms of land healing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u38	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate a report of the highest order. Minister on climate status and policy. This is one of the most important issues of our time, a case that the government takes very seriously and wants to show a great deal of ambition. It's a group of paintings where we're supposed to be very ambitious. It is not enough to refer to the fact that we have an abundance of clean energy and, as a result, keep us in a global setting. That is certainly true, but there are so many other areas in which we are not doing anything very well. We need to be more ambitious and afraid of energy, so to speak, perhaps because of our own clean and inexpensive energy, but we are extremely cruel to use it. We need to consider what can be more beneficial in our environment. I choose to look at the world with a positive view. I find this context of international commitments, international agreements, that the world has come to this problem, followed by our own initiative in creating new technologies, new developments in all areas. This shows that while the problem is enormous and serious, we also have good opportunities to deal with it. Of course, there we are to look to our efforts here, where we have been successful, and where we can do much better. In many respects, we have achieved excellent results in fishing. The improved use of fishing along with more efficient fishing vessels has greatly reduced emissions from the seas in recent years. That's a very positive development. Although it is true here, emissions from the big industry are an enormous part of our emissions, it should not be forgotten that in the global context it also has positive aspects, i.e. We're saving something else. From this point on, for example. to ease vehicles in Europe primarily are probably produced by about one fifth of the emissions on the continent of Europe. However, it does not diminish their business commitment to calm down the years before reducing their emissions and performing counter measures, for, of course, there is never enough to be done. But in many respects too, there have been fine results. We have a very interesting project ahead of us in the energy industry, especially when it comes to binding carbon dioxide again, whether in rock or for fuel recovery. It is a truly exciting assignment that we should take pride in in the coming years. What I think is important in this approach is that we look at climate issues and the big problems we face there as our biggest opportunity. In recent years, professional life has changed its view of the group of litigators from terror to its greatest possible existence. We see in this country, like anywhere else, the growth of a number of interesting sceptres that have their livelihood in developing environmental technology is developing ways to reduce emissions at all battle stations. That is why it is so important that as a nation, we take pride in these matters. Let us be on the lead in the matter, whether in the energy industry, energy exchange, or other factors we can reach. Let's clear the way for the sceptre companies, for the environmental technology companies that are springing up. We are to approach this subject in a manner similar to that of our neighbors Danir, who view this as one of the biggest opportunities for employment, not at all, a threat to economic growth or prosperity in their land, but a source of new opportunities. We certainly have many examples, such as Carbon Recycling, ReMake Electric, or Marccial, all of which have done extremely good and interesting things in this area. What matters to us also in terms of environmental matters is how much else we have a cleaner and green image when it comes to the marine soil, clean food industry, environmental food industry, our tourism, when it comes to the energy industry itself, and what knowledge we can use to export, so to speak. There are a number of factors in the programme that we can look at, whether it is counter measures or bindings such as land transplants and recovery of wetlands or other factors that lead to very ambitious targets of energy exchange. That is where we need to show real ambition. We must be ready as a nation to invest in the infrastructure. We must be ready to use green taxes to drive energy change in transport. We must not be afraid to continue walking in these respects. We must be more ambitious in agriculture, in general, and, of course, we must look to that, especially now with the vast rise in tourism, that the emissions there are actually increasing, including the for transport. We need to look for ways that the article itself will record it, on its own, in conjunction with green taxes when it comes, for example. energy exchange in transport, achieving results far better than we can see. I think tourism and other employment services need to take a lot of initiative. The subject is mad, the problem is very serious, but at the same time it contains marvelous opportunities, so it is important that we show ambition in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u39	Madam President. This debate on reporting at the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister on the state and policy of climates is about the largest common human task that is to stop global warming. Our policies in Iceland and our strategy on this important matter are and have been extremely vague. Governments need to speak clearly and encourage the public to change their behavior in order to do their part. I'm telling you, people in the country want to do their thing and take part in this important assignment. Government needs to lead the way. Greenhouse species don't ask about borders. That's why the Paris State Department, Kyoto Protocol and the UN sustainable objectives are so important. The nations gather to reverse a very bad trend that, if not stopped, will result in destruction and death. In this large and complex matter, politicians must acknowledge their inadequacies and dare to follow the advice of a vast majority of the world's scientists. The threat to mankind includes what? in powerful national leaders who question the importance of the project and the findings of scientists. Increased levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere cause two factors; increase in greenhouse effects and thus global warming and acidification. I have said that we Icelanders should, in fact, be like a roaring lion in the battle to reduce the atmosphere of carbon dioxide. Our profits are high, economic and social when it comes to pollution of the sea and acidification of the sea. Scientists have noted that the acidification of the sea will have a more serious impact for Iceland than the actual warming. One sixth of mankind's food is derived from the sea. In the U.S. Marshal's report. The Environment and Resource Minister is reviewing the box that the EU countries, along with three other countries, have joined in an attempt to achieve success in the effort to protect the environment. The campaign is divided into two parts. The countries have joined in on the business systems of emissions, or the ETS system. In this system, the most efficient articles, such as energy efficiency, metal industry, and flight, are dosed broilers that can run commercially. Europe has been responsible for the contraction of emissions, including and thus making a requirement for industry in Europe, which other countries have not done to the same degree. It speaks of a carbon leak when the industry flees Europe to countries where there is no cost of emissions. The carbon spill shows the need for all the world's countries to be united in action. Then there is the objective of each country to reduce emissions of the non-ETS part of the economy, such as small industry, traffic cars, fishing outways, and agriculture. Iceland's largest emissions component is emissions from wetlands. Even if this is not part of the report on greenhouse gas emissions in this country, we should take action in that area at once. The book is not the main thing, though it is not an important control device, such as the Supreme One. Instead, it is important that we act in harmony with the best information we can achieve in our country. An important factor is the ban on the implementation of wetlands as soon as they work to restore wetlands simultaneously. We are also expected to be able to be successful in transportation. In the U.S. Marshal's report. According to a minister, it is proper to consider energy exchange as a major community project, such as the heat - industrialisation of Iceland. The Conspiracy Government and the Left Green made certain steps in that material by reducing the product cost to a low-level car and by dropping the worthy extra tax from electric cars. The number of trucks that continue to increase has now reduced the sales of electrical vehicles. The main reason is that loading stations are not available enough. If the social project described in the report is to succeed quickly and effectively, the loading network must be in line with the needs of electric drivers. A return to farm contracts is in progress. There, the gold is an opportunity to increase the growth of agricultural activities in this big and important matter. This will take the opportunity to increase the amount of agriculture that contributes to reduced emissions or increased production of carbon into the atmosphere. I'm the highest. Environment and resource minister to be quick and effective in implementing a clear and progressive policy to meet Iceland's national targets. Even if there are words first, the most important things are the works. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. Minister of the United States for the support of the United States to speak in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u40	Madam President. First, I'm going to thank the report and much in the words of the Minister. It's a matter of speech. We're going to hope that the Minister is the problem and the Ministry is growing, the council, the Council and the nation all. The report makes wise mention of the overall climate policy. That is correct, and it is well written on ways to reduce emissions and increase binding. It is true of solidarity in the battle. We're always ready for that, left green, to make good promises and have been done. There's been progress. This was shown in a case not at all. A senator who has begun to perform well, but there are a number of projects ahead of him. I'm gonna go over a few things. These are questions or tips. Only on the Action Programme. It's said in the paper to work on making it, which, of course, is too late for when we came to the Paris convention, to begin soon. Now I ask you, when? It should be possible to have a little more specific. I hope the plan of action is very expensive, so we know how much money we need to find. I hope it's also sensitive, so we know the line, what's the course. The only results in less emissions for now can be described as what has happened in the fishing industry. Another is an increase. It tells us that the project is extremely complex. We've probably got one of the world's largest ecosystems here in Iceland. It is not easy to unwind. Then the swing. This is a government budget, and it states that all significant improvements should be made within the economy. The current financial laws make it clear that the figures on forestry contributions, land - healing contributions, the recovery of wetlands, are too low, so we're having a whole year, I don't waste, which is a valuable year in which the measures are not effective. The same applies to energy exchange. It is estimated that in three years, about 67 million people are reported per year to be supporting the electric accelerator. What about another one? What about the methadone? What about the record? What about the biodiver? It also requires that the support of the State be shown. He's extremely small. Then you'll have to reject the electricization. Apparently, it's a 7 billion price tag. I'm gonna see that it's coming in at least the next budget, along with large sums of donations for all of these matters I have mentioned. It is always the question: How will the present government finance what needs to be done? There's talk of green taxes or green incentives. I can't wait to see the layout. We have with the left green we've talked about carbon taxing, the increase in carbon consumption of all carbon consumptions in the country, the aluminium or the silica plant on the fly. Is that possible? It always comes about, when it comes to the piece, as they say, about financing. Then there is the cost of adaptation of climate change. It's not just an opportunity, it's also a huge cost that needs to be made gradually because of the climate change. It is very important that they also include the actions programme. This is where it is written about contaminated industry. She's not available anymore. This, for example, is a cause for rejoicing. But I ask: Have such projects been planned beyond what has been determined by three larger aluminium and four plant workers who have a silica program? What else is there in the pipes that need to be stopped? I'm not sure that that's really a lot because governments, councils, legislation, have stepped on the brakes more than the other one when it comes to these substances. This contaminating industry is not sufficiently defined to me. What's a big deal? More than 17 megawatts, as you know, will the energy - carrying industry take place? Pollution - What Pollution Is Its? Are these gases? Is this dust pollution? Is this waste pollution? It really is pollution of all industry. Somewhere, we need to set limits so I want to define the targets that are so that we know what's polluting industry and what's not. We with the left green support for fine works. We also know how to raise money. I'm going to remind you that we've made a suggestion for Iceland's non-carbon share-free before 2040, not 2050. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u41	A respectable president. I'm going to start now by wishing to the highest. Environment and resource secretary to congratulate you on your report and on your birthday. This is a good day to report such an important report. The value of the report and its contents has only been discussed here. I think there's a little SNOT analysis going on here. You see, we've just got our ass kicked in a report from the Institute of Economics for the University of Iceland. It shows that emissions are likely to be about 10◯16% higher in 2030 than it was in 1990, that is, except for the industry, but we should aim for a 35◯40% decrease, so the project is clearly large. Then there are opportunities. As the report says, many Icelandic companies are at the front of climate - free technology and renewable energy. The awareness of the climate problem and the interest in solutions has increased dramatically in recent years, and more and more rural areas and companies are developing climate policies. That's where I'm the activation plant. You see, we're supposed to take that interest, that energy and that knowledge. Well, then if I go over what needs to be done and the factors mentioned in the report. It involves first energy exchange in transport and fishing, a very interesting project, and we are clearly on the move. This has recently been presented with a conquistador to that subject. But there is more to be considered. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnarsdóttir's Valgerður daughter came into our transport system earlier. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Environment and Transport Committee was visiting yesterday at the Landsnet. That is where we need to be effective. There we can apply ourselves to simplifying and clarifying lines so that this important issue will be thwarted because energy exchanges will be unable to take place as far as we can spread the electricity that is located in many parts of the country. As regards agriculture, the opportunity to reduce agriculture emissions is generally considered less than in many other areas. Then I'll agree with the highest. It is important to consider how this can be further encouraged by reviewing the domestic contract. Looking at carbon - healing protein and forestry are very important. Whatever the case, in this debet and credit account, it's still very important. I'll have to intercept the report, with the permission of the President. It says: ▪ Not only must you look at fast - moving carbon bindings in this field but you must look at the many ecological and social objectives of forestry and land - healing, and take into account views such as protection of biological diversity and the fall of forest and land in the land. I'll agree with that. Then, too, the recovery of wetlands. Although I am saying that this is not the big solution to all of us, it is still very important. In effect, I wondered how short we are in the study of it and how much we appreciate it. Of course, the big thing is the factor that helps us get the most out of it. Then we can be looked forward to having a environmentally significant industry in the sense that we have the electricity around us. I'd like to mention that I was at the main meeting at Iceland's New Creation Center this morning. It was interesting to hear a presentation made by an investigator from ELOMEM, who works at the New Creation Center for what the industry can do in cooperation with research institutions and the university community. There was one accurate example that explained how the carbon track could be reduced. Of course, we should activate it. Then I come into what's most important to me, that's research and innovation. That's where I think we should use ourselves. You see, there are many opportunities. We're supposed to lay the lines down. We're supposed to create this situation. But there are so many solutions needed to achieve this success. We also have many opportunities to expand our knowledge of this field. We're supposed to use them. I see my time is running out here, this is way too short a time to go over such a big, important case. But at the end of this report, I'd like to step down, with the permission of a president. It says: ▪ It may be the key to reducing emissions. This does not happen automatically, however, but only if climate projects are increased, perspective improved, and worked in broad cooperation. This report provides a vision of the next steps and key aspects of the operation ahead of climate. The long-term success of Iceland will be based on the willingness of the government and the public to implement good ideas. If you want to do so, you will be able to achieve a goal with a long - term wide benefit. The will is there. That will be clearly expressed in the policy of the government. I can't hear any better in this council hall than it is here that is willing to do exactly that, so let's resolve on that. Let your actions speak and succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u42	V.E.G. President. We're going to take it to the top. Environment and resource minister and climate status here. Their conversation is good and meaningful and enjoyable that they take place on the anniversary of their birthday. Minister. Happy birthday, Minister Björt Ólafsdóttir. Later today, we will have special discussions at the Parliament on food production and climate, so climate is clearly the theme of today, which is well - known. It'll even come. The report says that we have the quality of achieving almost all electricity production and heating by renewable energy sources. That is our exclusive privilege, and there is our opportunity for Icelanders. Electricity is relatively cheap in Iceland, and using electricity instead of fossil fuels reduces both pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. The secretary's report accurately discusses several key elements of success. It speaks of energy exchange in transport and fishing roads. The report of the HHI confirms that transport energy exchange is a project that is clearly to be the priority of reducing emissions. This action can directly be economical, based on the HHI results. With this in mind, we should consider a step - by - step program. We need to consider whether these factors have been sufficiently addressed in the processing of the project, i.e. to pursue our climate policy, in accordance with our strategy for activation. So I agree with questions. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson regarding the government's energy policy in these matters. That's what I'd like to say. President, to stop only from projects directly involved in agriculture, and particularly the recovery of wetlands. According to the secretary's report, by permission of the president: Clearly, climate benefits if emissions can be reduced from the most advanced wetlands, no matter how they are transferred to a book on commitments between countries. In this light, the restoration of wetlands continues to take place in government climate policy. Yet, science, based on the opinion of emissions from wetlands and the effectiveness of measures, is less effective than in terms of agriculture and forestry. Science must be enhanced by the recovery of wetlands and the assessment of emissions and effectiveness in the coming years in conjunction with recovery measures. In this context, it should be noted that today about a quarter of the land's progressive development is not at work. Therefore, it would be wise to start with its recovery so that the project will have a minimum impact on agriculture, at least Until we have better information. It is often best with foreseeing. Last year, nearly a square mile [3 sq km] of wetlands were recovered by government, but according to a report on climate change in Iceland, 900 square miles [900 square km] could be recovered. If this were to be done, emissions would decrease by much more than 70% of the greenhouse gases released by man in the country would come from the most advanced wetlands. During the previous three years, a three - year - long government campaign began, which was part of their strategy for climate - related activities. The project manager of the project -- I think I saw this interview in RV - that the project did not follow funding for research, as expected by a panel of environmental and resource ministers. We can make plans. We have a common understanding of the importance of putting climates first and setting them on course. At the same time, we, the government, must make sure that financial support comes with the projects. In fact, this is true of all the matters that we settle at the General Assembly, but there is still a great deal of violations between the agreements we agree with and the financial support of the project. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the main points. We have to be successful in climate. We don't have time to make them stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u43	Madam President. Reports at the top. Environment and resource minister on the state and policy of climates is a good and useful document. What a joy it is to be in heaven! The Minister intends to take these matters firmly and decisively according to the government's clear policy on action programmes in accordance with the Paris Convention. Then I do not doubt that a good and broad agreement on these policies at the council will be the highest. Ministers are even more motivated to do good things, and the subsequent outcome will be of interest to a good cooperation between the Generals and governments. Climate change from man is an indistinguishable fact. The need to respond in a global concerted effort is least underestimated. Also, the problems of climate change are not that exist far in the future in foreign lands. On the contrary, they're developing now and they're affecting us directly. Iceland is a perimeter, naturally. This is where more than a raft is separated, which pulls the land apart. Global conditions and weather conditions that they place just around the line between the built - up and uninhabitable world. That's exactly what they understand, the perimeter, that makes the tickets off the shores of the country so generous and the country is rich in energy resources. At the same time, we are particularly sensitive to the slightest changes in the weather and the currents. It is similar to that of a canary in the mine. It is also because it is peripheral in nature to take extreme care of the environment and not to take any unnecessary risks. Therefore, the motivation for action could hardly be stronger for any other nation, and our commitments to the Icelanders are clear: we will be and will contribute to the global effort now taking on the Paris Convention. There will not be enough time for our joint targets in the EU and Norway to meet a 40% reduction to 2030. A recent report by the National Institute of Economic Institutes for the University of Iceland gives us a clear picture of the situation. Even though we are experiencing significant setbacks, so to speak, it is encouraging to read in the report that our opportunities for success for Icelanders are many, and so far we have achieved tremendous success. The report shows that together we can have a major impact on the results that will be achieved. They have come to want, and they now apply as usual. There is no one magical solution that works. We will work to meet the challenge points in as many areas as possible. I make special mention of investments in less efficient automobiles in line with the energy exchange programme that has been proposed in the council, which, of course, considers the need to strengthen the infrastructure needed, as well as the binding of carbon by deforestation, land healing, and the recovery of wetlands. Madam President. Of course, the measures taken must be taken; they must yield as much potential results as possible at the least national cost. Moreover, we must be careful not to get caught in the movements of medium - controlled and exclusive solutions alone but rather to rely on the variety of activities of research, development, and innovation, and marketing solutions produced on the basis of knowledge and experience and proved their worth.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u44	A respectable president. I thank you from the bottom of my heart for a great discussion today. I am grateful that here the members of all classes and many members of each category have not only encouraged the ministers of our assignment but also declared that they are ready for the project. That gives me great hope. This large task that we are facing will not only be done in the Environment and Resource Ministry, but the government, of course, needs the whole government. It's all part of the General Assembly, and it needs public, employment, rural areas, etc. Otherwise we won't make it, that's just the way it is. A contradiction may be hidden in the fact that you are optimistic about the success of the task when the problem is so great that I heard to be presented in a case as quickly as possible. A senator earlier. The task, however, is to see that we can solve it. This includes my optimism, and when I hear words, I still feel optimistic. Congress officials and how they want to resolve the matter. I'd also like to say that in order for us to succeed, the holding of the projects will have to be wide. When we manage to lead the climate, everyone is allowed to decorate with the feathers. That's where we're going. This project is not for anyone or anyone to say: " Look what I did. ' Not at all. This is just what we do together, and I have to say that I'm very moved about and grateful to hear how Congress worlds, not only understand this complex project, because it's very complicated, but that's what people like to join together and want to do well. [[The president calls.]] I know that's the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u45	Madam President. The European Commission report on the interests of children at Kópavogs binoculars in 1952-1993 is extensive and exposes very poor equipment, violence, and abuse in so many ways, the lack of control of governments, and the neglect of government. Everyone was shocked when she was introduced. It is important to use such a report to learn, and it is extremely important that the authors put it in context and offer suggestions and suggestions that are relevant in the present era. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the press in particular for it. This is where we politicians are equipped with an important tool for improving the situation, and we are under obligation to use it. I'm gonna go for a big one in the tips of the report. First, I want to say violence against disabled children, but studies show that disabled children are more likely to become violent than other children. The World Health Committee has reason to encourage governments to investigate it further and to take decisive measures to prevent it. I'm just hoping we'll do it, and we'll have the stuff to build on. I would like to mention a recent report of violence against disabled women, who also discuss the violence and forcedness used as children. Raping is another thing I want to do as a focus. The committee points out that it is necessary to evaluate how the law has been carried out. 59/2012 discussing measures to reduce forced service to those who are disabled. Will the minister consider these laws? That's when I think it's the highest. A minister must take a specific look at the law on dossation from the forbidden use of force. The report calls attention to questions raised about the interpretation of the law when it comes to child service and refers to the letters of the Children's Agent and Health Ministry from 2015. However, it does not succeed that even temporary caregivers do not have to apply for a special release from the ban on forcedness. It's simply a thing that has to be fixed. The same excuses are constantly being used when it comes to violations of services and, therefore, the handling of disabled people, the lack of financial resources, and the result of their lack of staff. If money does not increase, services to people cannot be added, neither those who serve in their homes, under the laws on the affairs of disabled persons and regulations for the service of those in their homes, nor can the help available to those who are using their personal services be provided where the real need for service is met. Since housing facilities have been discussed so many times in various contexts, I must mention that the situation in the housing of disabled people is also gravely serious. It lives, for example. People still living in places once owned of Kopavogs and unfortunately, these people do not have enough equipment. That's even. lack of funding that makes it impossible to provide them with proper housing. I hope to the highest. A minister has come to realize this and will take advantage of money that will be increased to the seminary as well as that the high - cost division between state and rural society will be taken into consideration. V.E.G. President. In the end, I'd like to mention the right men. The NTSB report shows that the committee is concerned that the rights of the disabled have not been met and that I am concerned with them. Long ago it has been pointed out that the right - to - care system is a failure, and as a result it is too weak, and that right officers cannot keep a firm eye on the condition of disabled persons and be within their hands. History and then the offenders that the authors of the report points out to be in the modern - day service. I know it's the highest. A minister was going to have a meeting with the heads of the report, so I would like to ask the highest question as well. Minister if the meeting has been held and if the minister has started some work to address the indications listed in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this discussion. This is an enormously important case, and all of us were terrified after reading the report. Happily, as I said in the council shortly after it was published, it may well describe the blessed practices of the past and, in some way, the prejudice and ignorance of the affairs of disabled people from previous times, who in recent years and decades have been carefully revised. Today, our work is completely different, we don't operate around this kind of home anymore. Today, all emphasis is placed on individual service to disabled persons in order to ensure equality in our society, which is, of course, the essence of a matter, i.e. to ensure that disabled persons as much equal as possible, total equality for sharing in society and daily life. In the case of specific questions. The senator should first mention that at the spring council, there are laws on the general review of disabled persons'affairs, which address a number of points that are highlighted in the report. And well to mark, it is true that in unprepared inquiry at the time, I wanted to meet with the authors of the report and saw a meeting the very next day, if I recall correctly. It is, therefore, true that he has taken action, and we are considering the actions we intend to take. The bill for new laws on the affairs of disabled persons is precisely taken into consideration the surveillance, the security of the Ministry, and the instruments the Ministry has to monitor more closely the services that rural society is truly doing. It is also a program for legalizing user - controlled personal assistance, which, of course, becomes an enormous step in the affairs of disabled persons. I agree with what you're saying. Senator on the housing problem. When dealing with disabled people, we need to examine how we can handle matters better, perhaps in the context of how we can better guarantee the right to live at home when they choose, this preconceived right to choose a place of residence and to enjoy the support that is needed to make it possible. This is one of the things we're considering in the Ministry about how we can improve. In this context, we do well to keep in mind that there is still a home in which Kopavog's shelter. Such housing is not at all satisfactory, and it already provides a plan for considerable improvement. Let's hope a shelf near the end of it. There are also other factors that we're looking at. The rights department and the power of that system fail are identified. It was a big step in the process, but it is true that they are simply too few, and in the process that now a financial program is expected to double the number of rights workers in the coming years in order to support this development further. This is an extremely important resource, and it is vital that we do well. Other things that are being done by the Ministry are setting up a special Ministry office, as it is called, to monitor them, especially through the care of disabled persons in order to answer just the criticism directed to the Ministry that there is insufficient separation between the European Commission and the surveillance, i.e. The staff of the staff who have some professional custody of the seminars and those who are to be in charge of the operation. Here we are simply completing a new mission within the Ministry to handle this change. I'm expecting it to become reality right now in the spring months, we'll walk there fast and safely for work. Then there's a huge deal about those who talk to disabled individuals, and I think they now count to the third hundred, and they have grown considerably in recent years. This year it is estimated to be the 50 to370 spokesmen. We've seen that there's something really important here and especially when training these employees. I think I've been able to get close to most of my questions. Senator and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u47	Madam President. As soon as I thank you. I would also like to express my Steinunn Árnadóttir that we now need to discuss yet another example of extreme government violence against their clients, who, as in so many other cases, suffered for years without doing anything. Immorality, financial prowess, prejudices, and what seem to be the anti - human attitude of the system are among the factors behind these repeated issues. But most of all, there is a lack of surveillance, lack of the advocates of the mutes, and those who find it hard to bear their hand when their rights are offended, even in a systematic way, that concerns me, Madam President. We still have no independent surveillance agency to observe and enforce the rights of those less fortunate, although it has been realized that it was needed at least since 1994, after the first European Commission visit to torture to the country. This has to be changed and immediately as the less fortunate ones in the system are, and although much has been achieved in the years since the end of the disaster in Kapavogs bin, the system remains to defend itself rather than its victims. We must not forget, Madam President, that there are real people behind each report such as the ones we present today who suffer and suffer and pain in life after such treatment, that each child torn from his home and shut off to an institution without proper support, love and love will become an adult with a broken heart, and a broken image. All too often these same individuals who were in Breiðavavik, Kóppavus, or other similar inhuman organizations end up on crime and consumption, but instead receive the appropriate support and assistance of repeated imprisonments to pay from the same system that broke into their heart. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I hope that we will continue to support the rights of those who can, in least measure, defend themselves against any system that almost protects itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for this need for discussion. We, members of Parliament and the community, need to learn a lesson from the past and do better in the future in these matters. We need advice and suggestions on how to handle matters better. Happily, many things are better off in this case than they have done in the past. As we know of long history, we come to realize that disabled individuals now enjoy something far better than before. Thus, more and more live in their own apartments, in partnerships. A few years ago, for example, a DS student's walk was impossible. There are many things that look better. It is also the law on general apartments that approved unanimously during the last assembly. They help these individuals to be able to live with decent potential in a rented market. Especially is the NAPA services we need to continue to legalize this year. I am also a spokesman, and it is a joy to work with these people. What a beautiful thing to do for these people in Iceland today, where disabled people are a sure opportunity for personal life, for education, and for work! This is vital, and let us continue to do so. That'll do us well.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to be like others to thank the Prime Minister, huh? paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Arjörndóttir, very much for opening up this discussion here and the Minister for his answers. The report again shows how much went wrong when it came to caring for our most vulnerable individuals. As the original - language report pointed out, you can also find very extensive and practical suggestions for improvement, which is a very important contribution to how we deal with these facts. In this case, the minister has been through some of the suggestions he intends to respond to them. Since I would like to use my time to stress this point, the Commission's proposal to be developed a new study and to make fair progress due to ill treatment and violence to children at institutions. We have the present system where we respond to reports. I believe it is normal that we establish a permanent arrangement in which individuals who feel that they have been subjected to ill treatment or violence that children in institutions can submit and be evaluated, they are not always responding to a very special report. This process is also so important that, as we have seen over and over, these individuals are dealing with very serious consequences of the violence they experienced. While a report is presented and it is permitted to set the time frame, the individual may simply not be able to seek the correct compensation within that time frame. It also shows the importance of ensuring assistance to people with developmental inhibition. It also needs to be noted how serious the consequences may be to those who did not initially have inhibition, but they suffered such violence and therefore went through a great catastrophe all their life, and they need practical assistance to ensure that they will receive the payment they deserve. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For starting a special discussion today, the Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir. And I thank you very much. Prime Minister for his response. It is difficult to describe the feelings that wake up reading this report. I spent a long time in the nursery school of Mumla, where I learned how precious and rewarding it is to work with disabled children and their families. It is important not only that we learn from this report but that we prevent such things from happening again. We must never allow such conduct to take place with all our community. I'm particularly concerned with section 2.4, the regulations of the Constitution, the general penal law, the child protection laws, and the members. It's horrible to read about a child's punishment story and how the child protection laws have evolved, I would even say scary. As head of the welfare committee, I suggest that we consider both the Children's Law and the Child Protection Act to be revised. I think it's important to see that the laws that apply to children are in harmony with the development of society. I would also like to mention that we must not forget that the United Nations Children's Covenant is legalized in Iceland. By permission of the President, I would like to quote an explanation of the children's covenant: However, since children are particularly vulnerable to a social group, they are also ensured by increased protection and support in various international human rights contracts. ... Following the gross violations of human rights brought on by children during World War II, the discussion of the need to provide additional protection for children grew. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A well - being minister might consider revising the child - protection laws and the child - protection laws with regard to the children's contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u51	Madam President. Here we will discuss yet another report confirming ill - treatment and abuse of government agencies that this is a time of neglect and merciless violence on disabled people and even small children. However, during the discussion, let us take care not to consider that former employees, who performed much of their work lovingly and best of their ability in line with an out - of - date and in - law view. Most important, use the report to learn from it. However, these were people's homes, mostly those of the worst social standing, with the weakest backland. What was to be a safe haven for the vulnerable became hell for many. There were many who failed. The committee counts, including... that there has been a significant lack of a clear policy in law and in the policy-making of the establishment of Kopavogus. She criticizes how long it took the government to fulfill a clear legal obligation to open children in Kopavog's shelter. A branch committee feels that the government has severely neglected to create conditions where children's equipment could be met by legal requirements. The Commission believes that the Ministry of Health has neglected its surveillance duties, and finally the Committee believes that child - welfare agencies, the Government Committee, the Developmental Committee, and the matters of the disabled and surgeons have neglected surveillance by their lack of regular supervision. Madam President. This must never happen again, and it is necessary that the Council as soon as possible establish the United Nations Convention on Infirm People and complete the induction process. Of course, it is the only real compensation that can be paid in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u52	A respectable president. The report on the Kapovogs bin is needed and useful. It is because it should be able to help us find better solutions. It is evident from the report that the application of retarded 1979 was modified by law, and it is also clear that hundreds of individuals, employees as well as supportive associates, have tried to improve the interests of those who have needed assistance with disabled persons. The report makes it clear that much more is needed. We are now to ask, What then? The question is, a respectable president, and I'm putting it in the top dress. Minister: Shouldn't we set up a new committee on behalf of the Minister, who has the responsibility of making proposals for these newly formed cases based on the available data and experience that appeared to us in the Kapovogs General report? In order for that experience to be clear and beneficial, other institutions must also be evaluated and how they were able to do so. Is there any reason to believe that they were anything different than the Kapovogs bin at the same time or otherwise than being smaller? How about a tour of Chefdanes? How about a tour of the chalet? What about examining other comparable organizations from the same time? These two institutions I give as an example. However, their study also needs to be supported by the knowledge of the growing training team and other members that will be discussed with members of the household and with the inmates. In fact, it's a question, Mr. Honorable President, whether the report on the Kopavog home, as tragic as it is, is not just a reason to make an assessment of the entire Icelandic welfare system, i.e. Its goals and activities. V.E.G. A minister has discussed ways to ask the local communities to take better care of the group. He has discussed ways of taking better care of all and to ensure that all work in accordance with law, but especially, perhaps most important, of all things, with full respect for those who enjoy the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u53	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for having this discussion today. What a reminder that we are constantly in our teens when it comes to caring for and ensuring the right of the disabled! This is not just a matter of technical concepts, laws, rules, obligations, appeals, offenses, and fines. It is about individuals and families, the lives of individuals and families, and the quality of life and happiness. In such a small community as ours, all of this can become a bit complicated, delicate and difficult. In such a small community, the risks of factors such as cohesiveness and silence can be higher than in larger communities. This is something we work here, and we need to be aware of. We need to ask ourselves, " Is there enough ferries to be good enough? ' Are they clear enough? Is monitoring good enough? Is it obvious where the responsibility lies and what the penalty is for violating the rights of the disabled? I would like my first talk to echo the concerns that have been heard here today about monitoring and to direct that question to the highest level. Minister of each of them attracts the highest priority. A minister's inheritance from his predecessor, i.e. it suggests that the bill for services to disabled persons and that the bill for changing local social services is expected to be a more effective monitoring of community services and the affairs of the disabled. Do the authorities keep in mind taking initiative - related surveillance, reflecting on the initials I mentioned? It would be good if the minister could dig a little deeper into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u54	President. It was so hard to listen to people discussing this report that they were hard to listen to. But I'd like to grab on to a story about the VR, with President's permission: During the past few years, there have been repeated acts of liberation against inmates in the United States. The court official of disabled people in the North is saying things very difficult, since the inmates cannot express themselves about what happened. One employee took an emissary neck and struck him in the back of the neck for trespassing on a chocolate roll. One was charged with kicking a resident while taking a walk. ▪ A special team of the Ministry of Health decided last year that an illegal forced and forcedness is applied to the community, which was reported on the news last night, saying former employees and legal guardians in the area unsatisfactory. The company responsible for business activity, Skafurvegur, admits that there is a significant offense in the operation. In 2011, because of suspicions that everything was wrong, the European Court's rights officer first discussed the matter at a meeting of rights keepers. Now I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether he will try to make sure that when the tip comes - for this report is from February of this year - about violence against disabled people or other people who are supposed to be protected by the government, whether through societies... This group of subjects is always under the Ministry of Health. What will the minister do to prevent this from continuing? This kind of thing happens today. Such tragic things still happen today, and we are looking out for our brothers and sisters who need their safety in every way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u55	A respectable president. There are many sad points in the report that are discussed, and it is commendable that it is discussed and to our reminders. There are many things so sad that you cannot excuse them in any way, but you can ask for forgiveness and right what you can do. We must never view organizations as storage. These are homes. It is to treat all members of the household with dignity, as we expect to be treated. Each individual has a unique status. He can have it. Let us give him a hand. Reading the report shows that in the 1932 Children's Protection Act, it is said that the child will be offended by physical violence, evil conduct, excessive work, poor equipment, or home conditions so as to result in health damage to the child as well as if the school is not cared for. It's a beautiful purpose. And also by the law of 1936, the institutions I would rather not take into account. It says that general education should be stressed and given special training in teaching work and in providing all the care that is possible. The report presented here shows some ways to improve. I know and know that it has a completely different and good spirit, much of the ability to process this report, and it helps with the wrong people. [[The president calls.]] I apologize, a respectable president, for having spoken too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u56	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Arnardóttir for starting this important discussion, as well as thanking the highest. Minister for the clear answers he gave earlier. Clearly, a great deal of work has gone into operation within the Ministry of Health to help with these issues. I want to thank you very much. Minister for that. But better, if it's enough. It is vital that we all learn, society, past practices, and do better in the future. I want to say something. Logi However, the Einarsson that we are not allowed to detract from the work that worked well when we discuss this even though we are seriously looking at what happened. I want this brief talk to you. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir for setting up a permanent arrangement for those who feel that they have been exposed to neglect, abuse, or other forms of violence, that we create a permanent arrangement where individuals can submit and be evaluated. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir The Eygló of Harðardóttir is sometimes given a time frame to respond to and provide evidence that people who have suffered a shock are not prepared to handle their situation at that time and within the time frame given. I think it would be very good if you could take a look at it as well as it could be considered as the highest. A minister speaks of, double the number of court-care officers, increasing surveillance, so we can prevent these serious things from happening again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u57	A respectable president. I pick up the thread where I finished the last time and continue with the children's contract. I would like to explain why I think it is important to have him guide my opinion on child protection and child law. It is simply to ensure that in the United States, children are treated with respect in accordance with the children's covenant. By permission of a president, I want to quote again in the United Nations Children's Covenant: 2.g. Opinions ◯ Reflect discrimination. All children shall enjoy the rights of the child's covenant, regardless of their race, color, sex, tongue, religion, political beliefs, lineage, disability, social status, or other circumstances or the activities of their parents. Section 3. What's best for the child. All decisions or measures made by the competent authorities should be based on the best interests of children. Laws and regulations should be set aside to ensure the protection and care that their welfare requires. Member States are to ensure that organisations and services caring for children meet governmental regulations, especially government safety, health protection, the number and qualifications of employees and the management board. Section 6. The right to life and development. Each child has an inborn right to life and should Member States ensure that he or she can live and develop. Section 12. The right to express your views and to influence them. Children have the right to express their views on all matters of concern and the right to consider their opinions in line with their age and development. Children should be given the opportunity to comment on their own issues in court or administration. It is my opinion that if I read the rights I read here in every part of the community, we would probably not be here today to discuss a Kopavogs bin. I have spoken specifically about children, and I decided to participate in a large report. I'm both the highest. Good ministers and whatnot. Generals to establish the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment Although validated, this report shows how specific laws must be in order to provide special protection to a vulnerable group of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u58	A respectable president. In the past few weeks, citizens have been observing the discussions of matters that have been followed by a report on the function of the Kapavog bin during the time of 1952-1993, and the care and attitude of individuals many of whom had few or no warnings other than those who cared for them daily. During that period, there was a marked change in Icelandic society. Work, well - being, and knowledge moved ahead, rising education, and attitudes changed as time went by, all of which had their own history. At the end of the 19th century and at the beginning of the 20th century, the policy of so - called human civilization improved in the convergence of social change. There was considerable support for propaganda reformers, the need to reduce the cost of unsurpassed social groups that they claimed to improve. Various contrabands, including A large number of sterilization procedures. In the Western world, most of the 20th century, a medical viewpoint was the dominant one who viewed disability as the opposite of what is normal. The concept of normal life, or normality, was first observed by Danish professionals in the 1950's who suggested that people with developmental inhibition should have the right to live as normal as possible as those who were compromised. At this time, the most common agricultural form was in existence, and it was difficult to implement this ideologies, which has been extended to a host by professional workers who have worked hard to deal with these individuals. In today's society, these are considered to be human rights, the attitude of delinquency, and we are ashamed of the walking steps in this regard. Faceting the past is not painless. However, we should be careful not to unjustly judge the many assignments of kindness and human kindness, although they also have been guilty of wrongdoing and even serious offenses against individuals, and they can never be excused.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u59	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Social and equal minister for his speech and answers to questions, as well as for the members of the council who have participated in this discussion. I think we all agree on the need to do better in this case, and we want to do better in the group. V.E.G. A minister said that the report describes the practices of the past, and I think that's true, to a very large extent. But like a dog. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir came in, too, we have a terrible example of our time. Of course, they need to be taken firm because we do not want ancient attitudes or practices to pass away today. I'm glad to hear that a ministry agency has been established to supervise the ministry because I think the surveillance is important. I also agree with what has been said here on the United Nations Convention and its legalisation, for it must be the will of all of us that this is not just a word but that it is really carried out, the ideologies presented there. However, it has to follow funding, and it must be accompanied by staff working in behalf of disabled people. I think it's quite right for employees in general in this sector to do their work with great affection. But when there is a lack of staff, people simply cannot do as well as they want to do. I especially want to rejoice that a minister joined me in saying that the housing issues of disabled people are in a serious position. I'd like to finally ask the highest. Whether he or she is not prepared to exert himself for assistance in their homes, so that institutions, whether large or small, as we have today, will really be unnecessary because people will receive help but will not have to go anywhere else to get the ministry they need. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u60	Madam President. I want to thank you again. A senator for this fine discussion and, in fact, for all the members of Congress, for the discussion presented here. I think the key is, we're supposed to celebrate all manner of diversity. This is fundamental when it comes to dealing with disabled people. This is part of the human diversity. We need to make sure that, like all others, we will enjoy equality to the full and meaningful life. It turns even. to live in a home, to choose a home, to have a home service, to view the disabled wherever they live as their homes, not as agencies, homes, or something like that, and to have the respect they have in their homes, and those who render service draw it near to them. Things have been close in here. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir mentioned a case that brought up the home of the factory. There I found an immediate meeting following the news about the local governor of Tattoos, who assured me that there was a systematic process of ambition in reforming. I trust in her words, and I know that there have been a number of better influences, although still involved in the activities involved in the elimination. It's extremely important that we expand our surveillance program. The Ministry is looking at various ways of doing this, to form a prime project available to the council right now for the establishment of a special surveillance agency, where the Ministry and Minister here must take their responsibility seriously and take this very seriously. I agree and believe that it is time to examine Iceland's child - protection laws, considering that we have legally established the United Nations Children's Covenant. The law is a lot older. Although the child - care issue has indeed become part of Icelandic legislation, there is good reason to consider the child protection laws in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u61	V.E.G. President. Recently, the one here had a good conversation with the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, in special discussions about food and food safety, import and EU contracts, changes in agricultural support systems and other food production and future aspects. The discussion was good, but what is left is the words of a minister on the importance of the present government's interests on the consumer, i.e. prices and products in stores. After that special discussion, I felt the need to go deeper into these issues, and then out of climate. We need to discuss customs policies and strengthen agriculture, but we must also be able to discuss food production in Iceland from a much wider perspective. It's not just about dollars and pennies and each thing, it's about a long - term view of the nation's interests, its security, and our responsibility in a global relationship. So food production is not only to the Ministers of Agriculture and Seaways and Environment Ministers but also to the Minister of Education, Health Ministers, and so on. I intend to continue my discussion of food production and thank you very much. Environment Minister for being prepared to discuss these matters with us today. The UN Report on climate change that appeared during the days is thought - provoking. It is estimated that climate change will threaten future food security on earth. According to the report, in the coming decades, the supply of food will not be in the hands of an increase in the world's population. These reports require that we Iceland appreciate our position in terms of both food production and domestic energy production. We need to consider how we can contribute to climate change, and agriculture is part of the problem, including the contribution of farmers to increase the production of food and food in Iceland. We need to protect our agriculture, it needs to be profitable, and to deal with changed times, research, counseling and developing work should be a key factor. This needs to be taken into account in agricultural education and gardening, a key influence on innovation and investment. Although we do not know everything, the changes in crops and species of climate change will seem to be necessary to ensure that all scenarios require good breeding and pasture countries to be preserved and protected from all manner of destruction. We also do not know how the world's trade of food will develop, and whether it will produce further opportunities for our export. It's quite likely. However, it is suspected that the international interest in transporting too much energy between areas could be reduced. V.E.G. President. With Icelanders, we need to carry out responsibilities on the global impacts of climate change and to adapt our society to them. The long transport of food results in high emissions of greenhouse gases, thus increasing the import of food at the cost of domestic production can only increase climate change. I have a report on the carbon tracks of gardening... made possible by the Organization of Garden Prayer. It contains a lot of interesting things, e.g. The Icelandic aguar leaves only about 44% of a carbon trail left by the imported. Food transport increases the rate of mortality compared to food intake near the site of manufacture. In addition, there is an increase in the cost of packaging. All of this increases chemical and energy consumption, increasing greenhouse gas emissions. But what has been more important in recent years is simply the waste of food that consumers have purchased in stores. For many years this problem was not being noticed here, but it is now taking over and is a joy to see how well it has been possible to call attention to this devastating destruction of food. Based on the fact that about a quarter of the food purchased, it must be considered a big deal. Better use of food must be a great deal of interest to consumers and is also a contribution to climate reform. Much has been discussed regarding forestry and land - healing contributions, but in later years there has been high expectations for a positive effect on wetlands recovery. I see my time is passing, so I'm going to finish this right here and discuss no more about wetlands in this talk, but I might find that out later. I'd like to hear the minister's perspective on the above points, i.e. Its policies and projects in the Ministry related to food production and its importance in food security and climate, the recovery of wetlands - in fact, we discussed the report in earlier times - and its impact on agriculture, its reduction in carbon production, and its use in reducing domestic food production and food management projects. What's the bearing, chief? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u62	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion. It is my pleasure to be here to answer. First, food security and food security questions were asked and if there was a plan on this subject. So it is to say that these lawsuits are not the only ones on the network of environmental and resource services and may not be my job of implementing a plan. Yet, these are vital issues that need to be clearly defined. We live on an island far north of the sea, and we're supposed to produce what we can in a sustainable way, to form in terms of energy and transport, and we're supposed to produce wholesome, safe food, preferably organic. It's the quality stamp I wanted to see on as many Icelandic foods as possible. I'd also like to point out in this context that while making the agriculture, it fully depends on imported fuels, and the exported source of input reduces the ability of this article to produce food, there is a situation that prevents import of these resources. Next, I was asked how I could see the future of food production in Iceland. In short, I see domestic food production only growing, but it has to develop towards sustainability, taking into account the changed consumption patterns of Icelanders and consumer choices. It tells itself that there is nothing sustainable about overproduction, as unfortunately, lamb. In the process of climate innovation, agriculture has a high level of activity, and I look forward to seeing the sector take strong initiative in that direction, in the same way as it does. The fishing road has done. I can see that a revised livestock contract can play a big role in it. Food waste and action against her have been a big part of the past year's discussion, and that's a lot of good. Less waste means less greenhouse gas emissions and generally less pressures on nature. The EEA is working on a food waste project that I think is very good. It promotes waste management in companies and institutions as well as public awareness. Of course, I'm very into the fact that raw materials are used in the best way and that, least of all, are wasted and will continue to support this issue. As for a carbon track of food transport, we need to remember that it will not be held and released. We can, for example. do not use climate reasons to limit food imports at the same time as we would like to sell our marine products, and, in fact, agricultural products as well, from abroad. Let us not forget that we are one of the largest fish importers in the world, bringing in grains, fruits, and products that we cannot earn at home. It is good to increase the awareness of consumers and try to reduce the level of carbon dioxide products at all levels, but it would be unrealistic to try to ban import on the basis of climate change. In fact, I wondered, " Is it certain that the carbon track of domestic food is always less than that of imported food? ' More often than not, the Icelandic product builds to a considerable extent on the imported resources and carbon tracks needed to be included in the overall equation. So it would be very good if, as I heard from the wind, local food producers would mark their products with a carbon line. A senator came in earlier, so that consumers could compare it with the embargos of imported foods, which are less important to be marked. Finally, wetland recovery was asked about the effect. It is clear that the recovery of wetlands is an important factor in climate policy, and I would like to promote measures in that area. There I want to make peace with farmers and other landowners. The most advanced wetlands are being used for today's crops. A significant additional item is used, but its overall size is not available. There is no plan for any unused wetlands that will be taken to grow in the years to come, nor is there a plan to plant forest there. These are all the factors that we need to consider and take into account in the government's climate control program. We need to map the possibility of a much better recovery before invasive procedures. However, it claims itself that such measures as crops or other crops are not required or are intended to use agriculture. There are plenty of the most advanced countries that are not in use, and measures can be prioritised there. I hope I came to answer as many questions as possible. A senator who looks forward to learning what other members of the Parliament say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u63	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. It enters the theme that we have decided to honor the highest. Environment Minister with us on his birthday, as has been entered this morning. We're discussing a little of the climate issues. I have a view of climate and food production, as if by other sights, it needs a complete view. That's what I've been missing, that climate issues are taken into account, that all government decisions, that larger decisions are to follow. Who are e.g. The maximum impact of policy. Governments to increase the import of food? Has it been calculated? I heard the highest. A minister before said that the ability to import would be prohibited on the basis of climate change and the highest. Minister wondered if there would be more eco-efficiency of the import or domestic production. I don't think we should be in the place where we're wondering. I think we should be at the point where we should know before we decide what we're going to do. What is the climate impacts of agriculture? There's something we should consider. Will they be calculated in a reimbursement of market agreements? V.E.G. A minister suggested that this be done. The seaside exit comes in there. But in general, I don't think we should make decisions based on some kind of ideologies alone, such as. to increase the import, which is a great debate for some political parties, without considering its meaning. Now I don't know if I'm supposed to take my chances with numbers, but well over 10% of all emissions come from food transport. [[The president calls.]] What does that mean? We need to know exactly, black and white, could compare to see if it's more successful when it comes to climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u64	A respectable president. I like everyone else to thank the advisor here and the highest. Minister for the answers. Iceland is a food - producing country, so it is only natural for us to discuss this big issue, climate, since we are food production countries, mainly in the field of fishing and production and fishing food. In addition to the excellent discussion on climate earlier today, I can agree with what it said about the success and success of marine soil. V.E.G. Environment Ministers also know that providing domestic contracts for the council during the summer and autumn was one of the eight guards that the employment committee wrote in its opinion that a review of agricultural contracts by 2019 should take into account climate conditions. This was one of the central objectives of the revised process in which the Parliament signed the labour contracts prior to 2019 C.E. It was not for no reason because it was most disappointing for me and others to see newly developed domestic agreements that had little to do with the environment and that the climate issues were not addressed. I think agriculture plays a much greater role in climate and environment here in Iceland, just like anywhere else, but we are generally normal. We've got a lot of lost time. We have too little research and analysis in the local setting to help out, to deal with this major problem in the food production at home. There are, for example. Evidence of this, without any confirmation of it, that feeding with grass means less greenhouse gas emissions. We are very supportive of international figures and the value of carbon emissions or greenhouse gas emissions, which we then place in national research. A fine report on the Environment Ministry web includes: to meet one value of the emissions of a particular type of land compared to the standards we are using from abroad, and compared to Icelandic data, it means about 87% lower emissions than the locals indicated. [[The president calls.]] So, Mr President, I say we have a lot of unscrupulous and unsearched in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u65	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for the discussion. In the United States, food production has reduced the number to a considerable extent to the slaughter and protection of meats. With military regulations about the price and disposal, we drive for a long way with the brain and other nerve tissues for disposal. At the same time, we drive long distances to slaughter, but much of this is done in the name of convenience. With these measures, we are making progress at the expense of the environment. We need to reexamine these issues. We need to shorten the distances taken for slaughter as well as dangerous disposal sites. With the system as installed today, some part of the farm needs to go up to a 600 - mile [600 km] way to dispose of dangerous tissue. In addition, it is difficult to identify a special status with the meaning of origin. By paying a way to home entry, we shrink a lit of burning fuel in transport and also produce more valuable and environmental products. By increasing the number of disposal and protection sites, we bring back carbon lines when slaughtering. We have to start thinking about these things overall, taking the lead in reducing fuel combustion and paying a way to innovation. We can add that we still became too much products that otherwise could be made out of value. An abundance of meat waste has the worst thing we can do in this country. These waste materials can produce meats and broils, which, in turn, will become part of an application, and the flour will be used in animal feed. In famine, there is a meatthy standard for burning coal. Is it a sign of carbon-free fuel? Iceland thus has a tool for the full use of waste products.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u66	Madam President. Like others, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for taking up this important matter and setting it up on the program here today. Food production is important for us Icelanders as it is for other nations. It is unmistakably one of the world's foundations for a career. The rapid growth of tourism and its activities as one of our foundations adds to the importance of food production. Usually every day there are about 45,000 tourists. These tourists eat food. I think it can be claimed that many of them, even most of them, are a palace under Icelandic production when available. Then Icelandic food has to do with Iceland's image as a pure natural country. We know perfectly well that the excess of the foreign tourists leading up to the country is not contaminated with our natural nature, and, of course, the northern lights I hope most of them are from the wind. Senators have been able to enjoy last night, and if not, we expect another show tonight. She was amazing. Government contracts establish that the production of healthy domestic agricultural products should continue to be emphasised. And so it says, by permission of the President: In view of crops and the environment, high agriculture and lower carbon emissions are also guided by the above factors in government agricultural policy. A respectable president. One of the main factors that weigh the food security of the Icelanders is the unique state of nature and weather conditions that include. there is little need for the use of insecticides and medicinal products in agriculture. We are to evaluate ourselves from this special position and strengths, including those. By implementing a certification process and related monitoring, which hopefully confirms and maintains the quality and health of Icelandic products. [[The president calls.]] This combines the interests of farmers, consumers' interests and the interests of the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u67	Madam President. However, at the 2015 Paris Convention on Climate Action, it was noted that there is no mention of the production of animal products mentioned by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, up to 20% of the emissions of all greenhouse gases. For example, on a global scale the production of meat and milk is thought to result in more than total transport. Benjamín Sigurgeirsson, a biotechnology doctor, writes in an inexpensive article several months ago and cites scientific research in his writings that reveal that about 60% of the deaths of mankind are caused by uninfected diseases, whose main risk factors are considered to be an unsatisfactory diet, smoking, alcohol abuse, and immobilisation. Such diseases are often direct food intake from the animal kingdom. Changing diet alone could thus prevent premature deaths and improve health. The environmental effects of animal production are, of course, not only financial but also potentially contaminated by animal production. Besides being extremely aggressive about both water and land space, it is responsible for large greenhouse gas emissions. But is there anything that can be done to improve these issues? Yeah, says Benedikt. It is possible for each individual to deny or reduce his involvement in the production of animals for human consumption. It may be supported by farmers who may wish to switch from animal production to other farms. The possibility of climatic development and other innovations within the plant kingdom might be considered and developed. A respectable president. In fact, it should be mandatory for governments in modern times to instruct people on the effects of meat and milk consumption on the environment and to use measures to encourage increased consumption of food with less environmental impact. There's nothing to wait for, time doesn't work for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u68	A respectable president. I want to be like everyone else to thank for the discussion that has begun here. It is important when we discuss agri-climatic issues to remember that Iceland's farmers have long been in a position to promote environmental awareness and environmental protection in the country. They have been on the road to their crops, their pagans, and their homelands. This is what Icelandic farmers have done for years. They have also always been willing to take up new knowledge and technology in their farming and farming. Some time ago, or in April 2016, the Farmers'agreement on climate - this is similar to that of Kazakhstan in this chair - and I certainly hope that a new Minister will insist on the agreement made there. Also, in June 2016 two treaties were made by the then Environment Minister at Iceland's Farming University of Innunus for research on emissions of greenhouse gases and the binding of carbon dioxide in the soil and the calculation of carbon emissions in agriculture. According to this, it is at the same time very unusual to hear that it seems that the Iceland government intends to contribute to the rise in food import into the country, in fact, to the need for existing needs rather than focus on promoting food production in Iceland and setting it off. There may be a need to reduce production in some places. It may be possible for us to increase it elsewhere and we can expand the export of something else that we are doing today, etc., but it is completely out of the way of talking about climate and agriculture at the same time as a large import of products that are even produced under conditions or in ways that we would not like to recognize. Except for the dangers of importing raw food into Iceland, as has been pointed out in recent days in a very decisive way. Farmers are ready to deal with environmental issues. They have shown it, and they have been leading them to work for years. We can look at the fuel use in agriculture today. We can also look for domestic fertilizers, e.g. Blacks and so forth, to make our agriculture still climate and environmentalized but today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u69	A respectable president. I want to start this conversation with the highest. Environment Minister by congratulating her on her day. Then I'd like to thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for starting this case. But then to the matter. It is important for each nation to ensure its food and food security to the best of its ability, especially in the case of an island such as Iceland, far north of the sea. A healthy course, then, must exist. However, we're going to need first and last to install the sustainable glasses and watch the overall picture, to form what we produce today, how the production process is, what demand is of some products and what other productions could be considered to increase the range of food produced here. When it comes to the overall vision, it needs to be linked to the government's budget for food production, perhaps in particular the agricultural industry, allowing food and food security policies and public funds to work together in the policy. I agree with the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister that agricultural contracts could thus be part of the overall problem policy. If such agreements are to promote an increase in food security, they should contribute much more to the production based on sustainableity in terms of energy and fertilisers and contribute to climate innovation within the agricultural sector than they do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u70	Madam President. We'll discuss food production here. It's tied to agriculture, looks me, not a fishing road, as good as knowing it. There are problems. There are overnew ecosystems, the baits. It's the disposal. I don't think the contraction's started in agriculture. There is a convergence of products mentioned here, which, of course, needs to be replaced by their distribution, and these are the commercial practices themselves. We are forced to shop most in large stores, where prewrapped products originate with a very small choice and small amount of open markets. It's really hard to deal with climateism with food in Iceland, it's been shown. It's a job to fix it. When it comes to import, we are faced with high quality products in Iceland, without significant drug use, without major medical problems. Indeed, in the case of consumers'interests, the vast majority of them have found that in the majority of cases, they are the only ones that make up their money and their products. The climate in Iceland's imports of food does not exist at all. We hear it from here every now and then. She's not part of the community discussion. It is not in the reasonings of those who want to increase the import of food. Of course, no one would think of banning the import of food, as presented here in the highest language. Minister. Of course, this is about finding a balance between the import of food and increasing domestic food production using a climate target. The import of food cannot be configured against the export of marine products. That's what you did. Minister, too. Of course, we can adjust this import to the prices, quality, and ecoves, as we remember the introductions of exported seafood. [[The president calls.]] It's not either or, it's both.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u71	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you anyway. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir very much for this discussion that's important. I'm just gonna stick to food security, as the last senator and others have discussed. At this morning's employment committee meeting, experts Karl G. Kristjánsson, chief of the Geologist's Hospital, and Dr. Vilhjálmur Svansson, a veterinarian at the Kengs. They discussed the dangers of ungained food import. It stated that Iceland's strongest position is the health of Icelandic farmers with almost complete purity. In contrast, some pigs in Denmark had an 88% human MOSA infection with serious consequences. It was also noted that the growing import of food is a threat to the public health of Icelanders. As mentioned earlier, no one will ever think of banning the import of food into Iceland, but we need to be careful, we need to ensure our own food security. This we do best by producing as much as possible ourselves and by strengthening Icelandic farmers and food productions to make and produce groceries, which is the key to Icelanders, that is our fish, it is our lamb. Let us contribute to it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u72	President. It is a pleasure to be able to speak twice about climate in one day here at the council, which is one of the biggest issues mankind has today. I'm sorry that when we talk about food and food production here, Congress officials are only talking about animal products. We have produced vegetables here, but unfortunately we have not found ways to ensure that those who have practiced such production will receive enough energy, so we do not have to import our own vegetables. I remember the greenhouses of Whomas in the old days where you could jump in and buy tomatoes, groves, and paprits. There are an amazing number of parishes to change how we use our energy, incredibly high. I call in for the long-term program to be implemented at the Environment Ministry, to examine the factors that have been taken out of parentheses here. I agree with the members of Congress who have discussed the need to do everything we can to ensure that it is shorter when it comes to carrying goods back and forth, whether within the country or to the country. But we have to keep in mind that we still have a big part to talk about. That's the situation on the ocean around the country. It's a huge factor, and if we don't take it into this job, many people will wake up to a very bad reality after not that long.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u73	Madam President. It is the government's aim to reconcile the interests of farmers as food manufacturers, consumer interests, and environmental interests, as has actually been repeated by the highest level. Sea dignitary and agricultural ministers talking about it. I think it is important in the context that our agricultural system is viewed as part of a targeted urban and professional policy and that the support of farmers will be involved in the promotion of economy, production and innovation in this article. Farmers themselves have the best means to ensure a wide range of food selections in harmony with the environment, provided that the source of the food they work inside is the same as it does. with respect to environmental considerations, good work and clearness and high regard for consumer protection because it can easily be contained within the environmental framework. A respectable president. We now live in a position filled with so many opportunities and challenges. The aim must be to support the increased diversity and innovation of food production by promoting land protection and sustainable production. We need to use positive economic incentives, including green taxes, and counseling to change land pressures, improve forestry and land healing, and control sheep and horses'pasture, to name something. You see, we are in a perfect position here to do things right.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u74	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. She rhymes well with a talk about a report at the top. The Environment and Resource Minister here earlier today and highlights one of the main issues to which this report would have been discussed. Meat production is a reason for a fifth of the greenhouse gas emissions, and although these factors are not expected to be addressed in the planned measures to counteract global warming, we need to meet in some way and as soon as possible. In many parts of the world, carnivorous production is also water - producing, and feeding is a major factor. To change this, we as individuals need to adjust our behavior and reduce the consumption of meat, especially those with material prosperity on earth. In addition, we have to remember that growing animals is an enormous part of the world's poorest food security and that the greenhouse effect will most likely be affected by that group. Excessive eating of meat and production in Western lands, where prosperity is abundant, thus affects the poorest and poorest nations in the world. Germany's Environment Minister has taken a symbolic step in his Ministry by offering only vegetarian food at the Ministry's official events. This is to call attention to what I said here. We Icelanders are on the move to increase the variety of food, distribute information, and use a variety of motivation to make consumers and farmers easier to behave in a reasonable and responsible way in this regard. The reexamination of the agricultural agreements is an opportunity to increase the emphasis on the contribution of greenhouse gas emissions and measures to reduce emissions in this country. I welcome the emphasis that government officials say should make in that review. I hope that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u75	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. Councilmen, especially the highest. Minister, for today's discussion. It's been very informative, and I think it was useful. I am convinced that we could not give the highest gift of our birthday present. Minister. I'm especially glad that the minister came in earlier and that we agree that it is very important to consider both food and food safety and that there are more recruitment forces than the highest level. Environment Minister. As I mentioned in my case earlier, I intend to continue the discussion with more ministers because there must be a complete vision that conflicts with a vast number of departments. Food waste, it's good to hear the project's being done in the Ministry. I'm excited to see how it works. I am also happy to hear that farming is not a priority for the recovery of wetlands and that it should start somewhere else until we have more information. It is important that we take special care of it. I mentioned the above report made not long ago by the Union of Gardening Farmers regarding the fruits of gardening. Hv. Sir Kolbeinn Proppé and Haraldur Benediktsson, in their previous talks, said that it was very important that we have more information than we now have on carbon lines, not just gardening, but other production products. The gardening process is exemplary, and I think that the government and I should examine it, considering the use of the information for other production products. There's a lot I'd like to say, but just like that, I don't think that we're supposed to prohibit the import of food, much less. We agree that we may need to control the production better than we have done for sustainable reasons and to provide food security and quality in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u76	A respectable president. It takes a lot to make me half-feet, I have to say, but I'm going to say I've had so many birthday celebrations that I want to thank them very much. I'm never gonna have a birthday while I'm at a council that's different from just here, because it's the most natural fun you can get. But as for the discussion, I'd like to thank her very much. The climate is very high on our minds, and we need to ask ourselves: " What are we discussing? Is it not important to support domestic production? Yes, it is very important. That's what we have to do. We are to support bioproducts mainly because they have the least emissions. We know that there are challenges to farming in Iceland. The report of the Institute of Economics shows this. Farming can do better, and we need, in the form of the restitution system in Iceland, to direct our waters there. That would be the right motive and a good way to make good use of the public money, indeed. But when we discuss this, I find it a little dangerous in some way to play these two things together and say either or, either import or production. It also takes carbon accounting, the climate books, to import resources for this production all. Of course, it would be very good if we could install a fancy Excel-tail and figure this out on some great solution. I still don't think the discussion will ever be black/white. I've spoken here, and no one wants to forbid anything, but I'm simply reminding them that customs do exist in Iceland. Indeed, they are forbidden or restricted to any import but the government considers them and at once. Now, you can say, no free import, but I just like to hear it if people think it's a complete flag because Iceland's agriculture is the way it is, and we see it in the vegetables, that it's totally competitive. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The Icelandic consumers choose him more than anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u77	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in interest laws, insurance and interest laws on Iceland's Federal Bank, consumer loan law and home loan laws. The bill's on the roof. 300, and it's 216th for the council. A bill similar to this was presented to the 144, 145, and 561, respectively, and 384th, but it did not work out. Several changes have been made in the bill from Council 145, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the changes are especially mentioned in chapter 4 of a paper on the bill. According to the Icelandic law, a loan is borrowed in a foreign currency home, but a loan of success is prohibited. EFTA feels that such a prohibition is not compatible with the EEA Convention's principle of free capital flow. The bill is partly based on proposals made by a committee assigned to review the prohibition and, at the same time, to see if special precautions are needed because of such loans and foreign loans. In general, most evidence is there to include the same precautions regarding foreign loans and successal loans, as there is little difference in the risk of such loans. Law No. 118/2016, the consumers' mortgage, these loans, e.g. incorporated under one hat, together called loans related to foreign currency, and prescribed various specific rules, such as payment and change rights because of such loans. In the bill this, the approach is the same. The bill suggests that a successful loan will be reimbursed in this country, but it also makes sure that consumers will be protected and financially stable. I will now explain the changes proposed to the individual laws of the bill. The following changes are suggested on growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001: 1st You'll be allowed a loan ofarniture again. 2. In the case of consumer loans, credit agreements, domestic or abroad, or collections of such indicators must be made. The following changes are proposed to law on Iceland's Federal Bank, No. 36/2001: Iceland's pay centres will be permitted, in terms of financial status and, on the basis of the opinion of the financing board, to set loans on loans associated with foreign currency to nonpayers' risk users. In the rules, the harbor bank can set a loan time, a type of insurance, and a maximum rate of loans linked to foreign currency from the overall credit system. The following changes are suggested on consumer loans, No. 33/2013: 1st Regardless of their amount, pay should always be carried out on account of loans linked with foreign currency. 2. There are stricter conditions for the payment of loans related to foreign currency than for consumer loans in general. 3. A loan attached to foreign currency must not be paid by consumers. 4. Depending on more information from consumers, the employee may agree to borrow, other than the loans associated with foreign currency, despite the negative results of payment, as they show that a consumer is likely to be able to repay the loan. Today, if you value a loan or an insurance loan that you borrow, you may be allowed to lend more than a total amount of loans on loans. 5. The consumer should always have the right to change the posts of a loan associated with foreign currency to a loan that does not involve foreign currency, i.e. Home change. 6th Special information offering on loans with variable criteria will be limited to credit agreements that require payment. 7. Other minor changes described in section 4 of the report. The following changes are presented to consumers on mortgages, No. 118/2016. 1st Real estate loans should be registered on paper or on other permanent mediums. All parties are to receive a copy of a contract. 2. Remunerations due to payment of loans related to foreign currency will be reduced to the same degree as changes proposed on consumer loans, No. 33/2013, for these are the conditions of today's law that are overly strict. 3. Suggested that the consumer's right of change was not limited to turning headstones into Icelandic dollars, but into loans that are not related to foreign currency. This is explained by the law that the consumer's home coins are not reserved for dollars. The bill is in a more precise way than previously identified the likely effects of the law of the bill. In particular, I would like to say that there is no significant change in loan management in this country in case of a successful loan. The share of foreign loans from new bank loans, with a 5.6% increase from last year in 2013 to 21.7% in 2016. Despite the high interest rates in countries, and no legal restrictions on loans in foreign currency, the share of loans in foreign currency has not increased more than ever, and the growth has mainly been driven by loans to companies which make money in foreign currency, such as marine companies and tourism companies. The interest of loans in foreign currency can be attributed to the limited access of Icelandic loan institutions to foreign loan markets after a fall in 2008 that has improved in recent months and years with improved credit ratings for state funds and banks itself. The limitation of the take of gang insurance loans is most likely to affect the general consumer population. This is due to two factors, one of which is expected to be by fewer consumers to meet increased demands for payment and, on the other hand, because the consumer's rights will remain undiminished at the expense of loans making them less adverse than other loans. With the approved bill, Iceland should avoid lawsuits in the EFTA Court due to violations of EEA contracts and their potential costs, while other direct impacts on the state fund of the approved bill are considered to be negligible. I want to draw special attention to the fact that the law is expected to gain value on April 1. But on that day there is a law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, for performance. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The secretary of the budget for his speech. But before I continue to discuss the subject of my opponent, I'm going to agree with the words of an ex - hulk. A senator of the forward party, Sigurjónsson Siglejong's son, who warned about this bill. He argues that if the bill becomes a law, they'll be rich rich rich, with the bill containing the separation that only those consumers can take success loans that have sufficient income to manage the growth and prowess that can go with such loans. This loan will therefore only be available to wealthy people. But that's enough. To this day, quite a number of individuals still live with foreign loans, similar loans, and were sentenced illegally after a crash, of successed loans. They are still struggling with financial institutions to seek justice, but little goes on. They're not getting out of their business. So I'd like to ask the highest. Economic and economic minister whether he will take the initiative that these individuals will obtain their solution, get a course in the system to seek justice. It is very expensive and difficult to sue against financial institutions, and many simply cannot. Very much. The financial and economic secretary will make it necessary for these individuals to get their solution along with the progress of this issue. A council, and if it becomes a law?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u79	Madam President. I have to say, at least a cause that matters as a matter of course. A senator certainly calls attention to the seriousness and importance of society, both for all and for the individuals involved, that in itself is not a related matter. On the one hand, it is a problem that still exists, and I agree with it. A senator would certainly have reason not to forget. I think the problem should be addressed, and it has, of course, been tried in a number of recent actions, but I believe that it should be done independent of this bill in which comments are being made that Iceland is not really meeting the European Economic Area Convention unless it makes these changes. I especially note that the changes we are making may not be that important because foreign currency are already allowed. Only in this regard can the loan be paid in Icelandic dollars, but it is related to the remuneration process of foreign currency. So it is not a revolution in borrowing from what has been. The other loans have been permissible for quite some time. This law is only changing since 2001, which we know, at least Most of them here, what's the story.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Budget and economic secretary for the answer. He may be right in saying that this is not a related matter, but it is still a success loan, and we are opening it up even more. For those who have sought their rights, there is resentment that the system is ready to open on it again without the system being ready to expand the scope that these individuals have for seeking their legal rights for financial institutions. I agree with it as the highest. The minister says this is a very serious matter. It's very serious that people don't get their way out of it because of the damage they experienced in the system many years ago. For individuals and families in this country, this has led to serious consequences. But that's enough. Next time, I'd like to ask the highest. Financial and economic secretary how he likes to add another 13. The law, although not related to the case that way, i.e. we're on law No. 38/2001, and add a sentence to the current law, which would sound like insurance on consumer loans and mortgages to consumers would be banned. Why not do so now, since the law is open and in material pursuits, or within a few days, it is likely to be. A general? How does a minister feel about it if this law was passed into the laws of change? Is he willing to accept such a change in bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u81	A respectable president. Briefly answer a question. A senator's no, I wouldn't like it. I think that could lead to a very narrow approach to the loans of individuals. Now, people can choose to accept insured and irresponsible loans, such as. ... fromthePresidents of Pension. I think from new loans that are voluntarily chosen by individuals, between 80% and 90% are guaranteed. I think with such a ban, we're crowding into consumer freedom of choice. That's not a good idea. However, I would like to say that I share my concerns. Of course, a senator's borrowing foreign coins and loans that are linked with a success risk can be associated with a risk, that is just as many fell into the collapse and now now sit in the forehead with pain. This calls for a great deal of responsibility for borrowers and creditors. Here we are, in effect, merely allowing this type of loan, but they are not encouraging such borrowing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u82	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. Hv. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir quoted Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson at the beginning of her counter-array earlier. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is not just right for Sigurjónsson Siglejonson to become this bill that the law will be the very rich. Because the loans will only be available to wealthy people, they will have them. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether the incentive to take gangstad loans and fruits in crowns is not exactly great, and there is a good chance of making money because of waxing. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to go first of all over this with us. Secondly, if the bill is to be legalized, they will be able to shoot away from the steering growth system by taking success loans on lower interest rates that have nothing to do with the Navy's operating growth, and thus they are at all non-profit levels and can only maintain their own growth unchanged, as Frosti Sigurjónsson points out in his panel on this bill. Is it not just true that rich people can be encouraged to make more money on interest rates and that the loss will become the rest of us, both through the Sea Bank possibly and then through the influence of thawing?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u83	Thank you. A senator for the questions. It's a little paradox to think that way, but as noted by the reason. Lára As a Arnardóttir, many people have been left behind in pain from taking excessive risks in the years before a crash, even today not all the cases that came in have been dealt with, and at the same time, they have become very concerned about getting richer from these loans. I'm going to say, however, that what I think is the primary cause of damage in this system is the huge difference in interest rates between Icelandic loans and foreign countries. I've talked about that problem. We're supposed to try to wrestle with every possible solution. We're supposed to try to recover interest by creating conditions here, by improving the credit rates of government funds, by improving the credit ratings of banks, by maintaining Kingdom operations at the age of training. I think that's a lot more worthy of my assignment. Here we're talking about a consumer loan, we're not talking about borrowing because people are taking some major positions against the crown, but we're talking about borrowing that they're taking for example. to buy cars, televisions, or anything like that, so I don't think there's a very small chance that there will be excessive enrichment at the expense of others because of such loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u84	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for answers as far as they could. Now it's not the first time that such a bill appears, or very similar to a bill at least. In reviews, the Navy has strongly warned against the result of opening up the safety of gang insurance loans to consumers without pedestrians. Isn't the problem we're dealing with our little coin? That's what I said. Minister that we have to do this because of EU rules, right? And that is why we are going into this case, which the late bat has strongly warned. Is there no chance for Iceland with its little independent currency and delicately getting an exception from the rules of the highest? Minister says to call this bill? Isn't that possible? Is it impossible for us to do this? Do we have any other options? Even though it's the highest. Ministers have spoken up various ways of trying to reduce interest in the country, then the main reason for the growth in Iceland is our currency. Is it possible to do anything else, receive an exception, or to be, no matter how much warning is given against consequences, despite accepting the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u85	A respectable president. I want to worry about what. A senator of Iceland's currency. I believe that it is one of our national ills to have a fallen crown that is extremely strong one day and so strong that it puts the export roads on knees, puts competitive industry in a crisis, puts tourism in a very difficult position. That's certainly a lot of concern. We'll see that in one month the crew of the kroner has gained about 10%. It is not a constant or suitable currency that will change in that way. So I say we do what we do. A senator would agree that the currency itself is a great cause of harm. I'll think about it. A senator knows the answer to his question, that it has been made to say that Iceland has not made these changes in its legislation and that the next step in it, if Iceland is not to introduce this change in the EEA Convention, it would be that we would be brought to court in it. However, I don't think that this may be too much of a risk to be treated with. Here, we are actually just talking about a certain loan form that is not different from the kind of loan that is already allowed, i.e. A currency loan.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u86	In fact, a respected president of the EFTA Bureau believes that the European Commission's law on luck insurance does not agree with the EEA principle of free capital flow and has presented a rational opinion since May 2013. Also, EFTA has made it clear to the Icelandic government that if the ban is not lifted, Iceland will be in charge of the EFTA Court for the matter. The United States has finally agreed to review the ban, but it is not considered advisable to do so without limits based on consumer protection and financial status views. It is in the fullest sense that here we want to be on guard in the light of history and that they may be thinking that the same situation will develop as it was here a few years ago, that people will be affected, as in the case of the fall and the aftereffects of the disaster in 2008. I don't think there's a great risk of it because you can't see better than that in your bill you're dealing with this normal concern. Can be used there, e.g. pointing to Article 3. The bill, which says, by permission of the President: Iceland's National Bank is permitted, in terms of financial status and, on the basis of the opinion of a financing body, to set loan policies on loans related to foreign currency to non-employment-risk Member States. The regulations that deal with the change in consumer loan laws can also be pointed to, especially, between 8 and 10. The bill. It is, in fact, there. discussed payment and the duties of creditors to provide detailed information on the risks of such loans. It also discusses authority to change loans. The report on these factors gives further details to the President's permission: Eight o'clock. The bill is stricter regulations for paying loans related to foreign currency than for foreign loans today, so it is possible that if the bill becomes the law, fewer people will be offered to take foreign loans as well as to remain unchanged. For conditional 8. and the limitations of consumer deduction agreements will largely be available to those earning money in foreign currency and to those who can achieve substantial changes in the payment rate due to gangs and interest changes. This may depend largely on the proportion of the person's earnings in return and on the sum of the loan's capital, as well as on pay time reimbursement. As a result, the public consumer in Iceland is likely to be less inclined to become the bill of law. In the 10th. The bill contains the right of a consumer to change the posts of a loan that is linked to a foreign currency in loans that are not related to foreign currency (sorrowing). - In most cases, the Icelandic crown, as mentioned here, was in the highest speech. Financial and economic ministers. In this right, the value of consumers is because it can take into account changing circumstances, whether personal or economic, in order to change loans. The court also carries an increased risk for borrowers who are likely to want to be paid for and to take into account at the expense of the loan. Hence, this court will make loans in the foreign currency more expensive. A respectable president. In view of what I've traced above, there is no better way to see that measures and restrictions are taken that are satisfactory. They should be sufficient to prevent sources of money from borrowing in foreign currency, resulting in a general loan or a loan from someone who cannot live up to the risks involved. A respectable president. Finally, I want to take advantage of this opportunity to highlight the importance of preparing an arrangement for currency that prevents the eco-efficiency and habitats from changing. You will see that most of the measures taken by the public, business, and the state must take in order to protect themselves from the qualities of their own currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u87	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The financial and economic secretary for his history, of course, has to point out that again there is a bill that aims to legalize loans to consumers who have failed to protect against the potential risks of such loans. The bill also opens the door for gang insurance loans with mortgages at the home of consumers exposed to high - risk risks. This is not the first attempt to bring this risk into the economy, but past attempts have not worked out. More importantly, only the consumers can take high-cost loans with sufficient income to manage major gang and interest changes that come with these loans. The result is that it is only more wealthy people who can take those loans. There is a certain payment rate. The bill says, by permission of the President: The borrower shall only lend loans related to foreign currency to consumers as: a. has enough money in the currency related to the loan in order to meet payment, or b. has passed the pay assessment where significant changes and significant increases in growth are expected, or c. has passed the payment rate and provides adequate financial guarantees that greatly reduce the risk of currency due to the loan time. I restate upon the fact that these loans are only capable of earning money. Is it really a priority for the government to supply access to these parties? There's a lot of discussion about this in society. I'd like to quote this morning's Þorbjörn by permission of the president of the Þórðarson States' News. There he says: A watchman is in the new bill, which includes the fact that only foreign loans can be extended to the vulnerable, i.e. Those with no income in dollars, after credit rates and credit rates. The root text contains such an allotment: a borrower should only be given if he believes that a consumer will be able to repay with loans taking into account the results of credit and payment assessment. This text means, in effect, that it will only be in the range of chemical people and the hair of earners to take these loans. These loans will not be given to banks if it is considered predictable that the loan will not be able to meet the cost of walking in the event of a failure at the end of the game. ◯ Then the Þorbjörn Þórðarson Þordur asks, "Who is reasonable in that? " I agree with him. Come on, he says: And does this not mean that there is a law against discrimination and opening up the office of rich and earning hairs against the Icelandic crown? Now each and every one will answer. For my part, I say, " I agree with him. ' But I think this is just the situation in Iceland today. Of course, it's kind of amazing that people show up here in a pit and they don't see anything about it. Nothing. Another thing I would like to mention in this context: What is the experience of the 2008 financial crisis? A respectable president. There are some of the elements in the bill that I would like to mention, by permission of the President: ▪ At the end of September 2008, loans to individuals associated with foreign currency were received by some 320 billion dollars. or about 17% of the total individual debt. Then, in increasing numbers, rural societies borrowed loans linked to foreign currency during the years before collapse, as well as nonprofit companies, who had no income or owned valuables in foreign currency. During 2008, a sudden drop in the Icelandic crown took a sharp bite on the economy of non-array loans. Of course, there are some changes in the bill that take into account these factors, but this did not happen so long ago in a situation similar to that of today. There's a lot of growth in foreign countries. There's a lot of going around the economy, 5% economic growth over the last year, and the dollar has been making a lot of money. Financial and economic ministers mentioned, approximately 10% in rather short term. These loans are the ideal conditions for the person to take today. As shown in the bill: The risk of gang change in foreign currency is, therefore, a substantial one. And then there's what the Secretary of Economics called, there's a lot of going on in the economy. The share of foreign loans in new loans of the banking system, with the exception of payments, has increased from less than 5.6% in 2013 to 21.7% in 2016. This, of course, shows the evolution I was referring to. Because of this high growth and the ability of certain persons to borrow abroad, even in negative interest, there is a tremendous incentive for such a course today. I ask, " Wouldn't it be more reasonable to wait on this or to look more closely and perhaps put this on trial in court before going this way? ' I believe it is. Is Iceland on a boat in this context? Is Iceland the only state to face this risk? No, it's not like that. Austria with her day decided to borrow in Swiss francs, for it was a big, tempting interest. When the Swiss franc gang rose suddenly in 2015, about 20%, a very large group of lenders were in great trouble and needed assistance. The same could be said of thousands of Polish people who went that way. So it's a recurring story. Especially when there is such a difference between the real economy of this state and the development of the euro these days. What's going on in these and other countries is that it's being a support for the well-being of the privatized loans to the undefeated borrowers. The loans are being used more rigidly to cover the level of privatized loans and stiffer credit requirements to provide them. Actually, it's four things that control the fact that I'm opposed to this bill. For one thing, financial stability is a prerogative, i.e. that borrower in foreign currency, borrower who doesn't have the protection should not, in my opinion, get access to these loans. This will increase financial instability. In my opinion, the situation will be protected. There are regulations in the bill that if the loans grow considerably, the Scroll or the financing can intervene and resist this loan, if I understand the right thing. But I think there is a risk, too, because as soon as this is allowed, what makes a larger person and those who can resist this payment? No doubt they have already begun to make payments at their bank. Of course, they go to the bank and take these loans now as long as they can. I think there's a problem that's being created by putting this law in. Second, it's an equality and fairness. Clearly, only the wealthier homes in this country can be borrowed. Is this perhaps a little something in the shape of the government? I'm just asking. I hate to say this because I think most people want land and country all the best, but they sneak up on you that they think it's all right and that it's all right to disagree with America's homes in this way. Then I'll come to the third argument. They are subject to the money policy. It's clear as I'm saying, there's a more wealthy home in the country that has access to this. They will then enjoy an entirely different interest rate from that of other homes in the country. Everything else. It's just that the homes are being discriminated against. Fourth, as I mentioned earlier, I also look to other countries that are closing on such loans because experience is not good. As mentioned above, the main argument is that financial and economic ministers offer this bill that the U.S. law forbids pricing insurance is not consistent with the EU Convention's free flow of capital. Of course, we understand what we know about the EEA deal. But I just think it's a big thing and a big change, especially in the light of the damp I went over, that we should test this out for the EFTA Court. We're supposed to take it all the way. We'll just have an excellent experience with it. Our economy differs considerably from that of other economic systems, since we live in some 320 thousand people, and national production is much less proportional compared to other countries. That is why there are different conditions here than there are in many other countries. We're supposed to take this into account before we accept this bill. I think we should test this out for EFTA.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u88	Madam President. There are a few factors. A senator who draws my attention. The first thing is, it seems to come to the point. A senator's position is that we do not fulfill our commitment to the EEA agreements. I want to ask you why. A senator to see if there's no reason to react, whether it's okay for Iceland to meet its commitment to the EEA Convention. Second, what's the current rights today? What limitations do we have on foreign loans to Icelandic consumers today? In what ways, then, does this bill change it? Third, Hv. A senator refers to the wealthy. But what is the difference between this bill in terms of meeting payoffs, and for all other loans anyway? [[The president calls.]] Does putting these things in perspective mean that everyone has to pass a reward?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these comments. I think he's got some misunderstanding that the EEA is something I don't take seriously. That's not true at all. I just think that what's happened sometimes when we're implementing certain EU rules and regulations is that we don't really think about the situation in our economy. They're just a little different than those of many of the bigger states. Therefore, I would like to put this before the courts. In terms of payment, it's true that everyone has to go through payment. There is a difference, however, when you can be in a very different environment of interest in these foreign loans and actually do so in a way that makes you earn more money. That's what I'm pointing at. I'm pointing out an equal and reasonable logic in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u90	Madam President. It would be fascinating, then, to hear from it. A senator on what legal basis Iceland is going to build her defense for the EFTA Court. Is it some legal ground in Iceland that they think they can build? Then who is he? Or it's just a pre-hide because why. A senator disagrees with the subject of the bill? Second, where does it appear, including of 8 C.E. The bill, that it is merely a reference to those with a higher income? It is stated in the A-part report that it is the requirement to make a living in foreign currency. Does that apply only to the wealthy? How, then, can it be concluded that this case is particularly about the conditions for borrowing to those who are more wealthy than the laws that are entirely otherwise on loans to the public in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u91	A respectable president. I appreciate that tip, too, but I feel like it's something very delicate. I'll tell you what it says here in the b-party, because of my comment that there are more rich people who have more access to these loans. It says: A retailer should only lend loans linked with foreign currency to consumers who have passed the payment of significant changes and significant increases in interest. Of course, those who can resist this challenge have more income than the rest. They can get more fluctuating. I don't think that's what normal bookbooks do. That is why I think it is very easy to conclude that this is only available for the more efficient ones. I just can't believe it. A senator disagrees with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator Lilja Alfreðsdóttir for his speech. However, I did not fully grasp all the things she said. On the other hand, I felt that not everyone could take a risk, in which differences were discriminatory, but I felt that it was also critical that some people needed to pass credit evaluations, and thus they could get access to money, and in it, they were reduced to discrimination because some were inclined to have food and others would not. We now have credit ratings in various parts of our banking system. We have very different growth rates. In this way, those who are most likely to be able to earn the money enjoy the best guts. Wants to play. A senator abandons that principle in general in the financial system?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his remark but must say again and again that I think we have entered a delicate point of the government and the government. Of course, we do not object to the fact that we have a credit rating here. Of course. But what's being pointed out is that there are richer people who will live with other growth rates if we approve of this bill. I know it's a little hard to hear when you're just back at the council, that this is the situation, but it's just like this. And somehow trying to dust people's eyes on this matter and saying that this is just how the financial system works -- we're giving new access to new loans that are going to discriminate.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u94	Thank you. A senator resists. This does not change the fact that, whether we like it or not, we still live in a better environment. This applies to small companies and large companies and about individuals. This is exactly the same law. I can't see what's going on. All we're doing here is make sure that the public will not be harming themselves with this new possibility of borrowing.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u95	A respectable president. That the public will not be harmed. Now we're looking out for it. But why not take care of our economy and financial stability? And listen to the reasoning that Iceland's Secret Bank gives and why they've been objecting to the fact that we're giving gang loans to non-defensive parties, have no gang control? I can't figure out what road we're on, especially when you're just pointing to this obvious aspect, that there's an overwhelming interest difference now between the euro and the crown, so it's very obvious that those who are more wealthy will enjoy a much better dress. We're not just talking about 200 points or something like that. That may be 500, 600, 700 points. It is clear that if we agree to this bill, the more wealthy will get more out of it and so on the Generals' invitation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u96	A respectable president. I come out of a sort of emergency to respond to some of the worst talk I've heard in this room, and I'm actually repeated and even worse than I heard in my last term a few times. I'm gonna ask you what. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir whether she studied, e.g. Calculation of rural communities, which are undefeated on the benefits of the loans they have obtained from foreign loans, e.g. Like PGE in recent years. I'm going to answer part of the question: Last autumn, it was found that rural society may have lost one year of credit. Second, I'm going to get an explanation of how to be ideal for taking a foreign loan today when the dollar has grown up at about 10% in a few weeks. Is it not right now that we should not borrow foreign loans? This speech is completely incomprehensible to me, and it will be answered in a later speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u97	A respectable president. Now it's fun to be in Congress! Really. Hv. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason in a big rush, he's just asking us some pretty good questions. I'm going to ask him back: Has he forgotten the illegal loans given here, the luck loans, and the bank system had to be canceled for them? Has he forgotten all the homes that took these loans and had a negative personal position and had such an excessive problem that people could hardly sleep because of this? Hv. A senator has forgotten all of this. It's not weird because we know him. Everything that's uncomfortable, he just forgets. Regarding the benefits of the undefeated enterprises, it really is. But they're big business, and in some ways they can resist it. But we're also talking about the homes in the country, not showing them that much partiality. [[The president calls.]] But I'm not surprised. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason wants different homes or people. This is certainly true of me and the laymen.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u98	A respectable president. I refuse to charge myself with any accusations that I've done here to discriminate people. Your board of directors, huh? For a hundred years, there has been discrimination between people and people, and I have not been there. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] So there is no discrimination on my part. Hv. A senator could not answer a question, and he regressed me with all kinds of difficulty and shame, as was my memory. I have an excellent memory and I know quite a lot about borrowing in the last 15 years, which may not have been in excessive measure because banks behaved like fools because the banking system was a crime in part. That's another story. But I'm gonna ask you, what's the difference between an inflation shot that may be... Has a what? A senator would walk through payment and learn how it is done? I endure such a situation and fully realize that at least men must prove that they can pay. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u99	A respectable president. It's not possible. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason be any sensitive? Is that possible? Sounds like everything. Here he comes up in a pit with all the sort of claims some of them are, I just want to let myself say, total nonsense. I don't know what to say. Yes, I'll say, what's going on here is that we'll increase the risk of threatening financial stability with this bill. I know it's difficult for you to hear because you normally care about the economy and maybe even oppose it, but because it's a administrative bill you may find it hard to hear some of the things signed up to say, especially in terms of discrimination against the homes of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u100	Madam President. I'm not going to have an answer like that. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason. I cut it down in a very good speech. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir that she mentioned what I think is a reference to the 10th paragraph. The bill that says, by permission of the President: ▪ The user has the right to change the posts of a loan associated with foreign currency into a loan that is not related to foreign currency. I suppose that's what she meant by perhaps it would be possible for borrowers to consider the risk to others. I think it's kind of a scary idea. I'd like to know what it is. A senator can imagine who is taking that risk when a borrower rolls it away.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Usually when the individual is unable to carry this risk, it is the banking system or other people who carry it and have to accept it. That, of course, is what we experienced in the financial collapse. I listed to film illegal, I'd like to guarantee the loans. 150 billion birthdays took place. I feel like a lot of senators have already forgotten what it was like and what it was like. It's not just Iceland that's been in trouble because of a successful loan. There are many, many other countries. Not to be overlooked.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u102	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answer is that it is creating an incredible risk to the banking system. It is probable that Iceland's Secret Bank will be located in some cases, with a great deal of that risk, as a marine loan agency. It's actually this kind of thing that's being proclaimed by this bill, it's about to put Iceland's economy in grave danger again. Isn't that right? Is it reasonable that the government is offering a proposal that would put the economy in jeopardy again? I know why. A senator is not a part of the government, but I would like to hear her view of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u103	A respectable president. I'm not surprised. A senator asks in this way. This is one of the things we're worried about, that the risk in the system is beginning to increase substantially. There is a tendency to take certain positions, possibly against the crown, to say that they have already taken a foreign loan, and they are concerned that the dollar is becoming seriously ill, and they will leave and take additional loans to protect themselves from it. So, of course, we are increasing our risk of financial stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u104	Madam President. I thank you for the discussions that have taken place on this bill, which may in many ways be good, especially since it is the answer to the threat of EFTA. That institution is a good thing to accept. It's been four years since the threat came up, so I don't think there's a chance we can fix this problem, not so much that we can't take care of other problems first and fix them, especially when the problems are over and when this bill is approved. I agree with the warning as it is. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, from a former council member of Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, suggested that this creates an inexpensive availability of loans on the fine interest rates of abroad. It is not normal that only wealthy people be allowed access to cheap loans while most Icelanders are trapped in a high - interest environment. In this context, we need to keep in mind what the bill says by permission of a president: ▪ At the end of 2008, less than 50% of homes were allowed by loans associated with foreign currency with negative personal status in housing, but the ratio of over 20% was in homes that had only loans in Icelandic nonsecures, even though banks generally had a lower share of foreign loans. As a result, the risk of gang-changes borrowing foreign currency is considerable.• So says the President's permission: With the increase in the interest of the underlying currency and high risk loads or high risk phobia of markets, loans associated with foreign currency may increase significantly. In response to an earlier discussion, the highest figure was given. The secretary of finance that this was merely allowing this loan form, would not be trying to encourage people to use this loan form. Of course, it's a straight one, Mr. President. Today, the growing environment in Iceland is such that the economy itself encourages everyone who can avoid borrowing dollars to do so and borrow foreign coins. High - quality loans in Britain are currently available on interest to 2.2%, but in Iceland there are a similar loans between 6.5 and 7.5.5%. Then I'm referring to cheating loans, of course, because that is what is going on in general and what happens in the world. The growth rate has grown to such an extent that it simply pays for people to start fighting. But we're not supposed to be planning a crisis system, especially if it only helps rich people. Mr. President. Economics have a well - known phenomenon called trilemman, or the impossibility in English. This is a remarkable sentence for the fact that this is one of the few phrases in economics that have proved both teaching and data. It says that it is not possible to have at the same time a free flow of capital, independent money policy and a steady gang. Any pair of these can be selected, but that rule out the third option. Trilleman forces us to ask ourselves, " Which of these three are the most important and the least of these matters? ' Seems like who, of course. Far off from the republicC, free flow of capital funds has been made available, with the remaining currency heads, but then in the wake of the collapse, all three could be ill - equipped. Of course it didn't work out, the system shook itself apart, of course, with the help of bankers and high - risk investors. The Law actually just describes behavior that will arise. This bill is designed to correct the Icelandic law based on the 2013 Monitoring Institute for EFTA. Here we are dealing with four years too late, but it is also done in a way that offers the dangers of the trillum world. This is simply a matter of taking a stand by independent money policy and a free flow of capital, which means that the march will continue to get all over the place. We know that this has been the case recently, a 10% rise in short periods and a significant rise in the past few years, and this increase is beginning to have a very negative impact on exports in Iceland, which see the decrease in cost of operating and the cost of sales decline. But the danger could be even worse. There are other factors that could lead to greater travel, especially in which foreign investors brought money to the country through the UN Bank investment routes have seen up to a 60% increase in the value of their money in recent years. At some point, trust will disappear, as it always does, especially when the legal environment is in such a way that it cannot be trusted. That's when that money's coming out. Really, a situation that cannot live up to has been created. In fact, it is the result of this dramatic rise that has occurred primarily in the financial policy of the Bank of Iceland. It creates a measure of risk to consumers and reduces the credibility of the economy. In view of all of this, I'd like to warn that the bill will be accepted at this point. It's essential that we accept it in the end. One of the few people I disagreed with was that. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir was that I'm not quite ready to take the court route in this case. I think we're gonna have to fix this and we're gonna have to open this up eventually. But I think we should first fix other things. A measure of stability must be established before this bill is sensible. Although it may be both reasonable and necessary in view of Iceland's international commitments to accept it in the end, we should not rush into it. Mr. President, we're definitely not supposed to be going anywhere. To minimize the risk of related gangs in the country, it would be desirable to move the interest levels in the country in general closer to what goes and goes abroad. This will contribute to some reduction in foreign prognostication and decrease the financial cost of domestic people who may otherwise be seeking a high - risk currency loan, whether due to bone, word - to - word encouragement from the highest level. Secretary of finance or not, because the economy encourages it. At the same time, we're going to need a decision on the future budget of currency in Iceland. Before the election, it was the highest. The secretary of finance does nothing to address a currency scheme, which was said to be the then candidate of the woodlands and many of the current storms. Senators' solution to all of Iceland's problems. So I criticized them at the time. I think it's too costly, and I think there are other ways that might be preferred, such as, e.g. easy access to euro moving along the way Croatia has done and causes long-term fluctuations to occur very slowly while short-term fluctuations are decompressed. It's cheaper and simpler. But it really doesn't matter which way you go, you need to find a way. In itself, a secret arrangement is little more than a decision to prioritize the free flow of capital and constant success at the expense of independent money policy, but it does not result in complete surrender of independence in money policy. It is still there, though there is a certain binding in the regulations. There's some other way to go. In fact, I don't care which way I'm going, but there's gotta be a way, so you can't keep going anywhere. President. We at the government stand have been waiting for over a month for the government to show some sign of a vision. In fact, earlier today there is an excellent advance vision in a report of the highest climate. Environment Minister. This report needs to be followed by action now. Yet, there is still no need for a vision of the future. I've heard of the fact that we're now in the Ministry of Financial Affairs, a lot of bills to be asked. I don't understand why they haven't at least come for distribution, because there is no reason why the council may not be able to look at these documents even though they may not be on the program. I don't know exactly what's going on in the Ministry but I'd love to hear what it is, how many bills there, and what the situation is on them. However, I would also like to see suggestions made on coincutive advice come up or some form of suggestions that would reduce the risk and risk of success. All of this must be considered before this bill is approved. If we were to deal with this, we could solve the problems of high interest in the country, turn around to the point where there is at least a 5% difference between loans on the land and loans abroad, this bill could be submitted without some amazing rule that only rich people could take this loan because it would then be consistent. Then it would be a normal marketing trade that took place between countries. That would be normal. But to present the bill now as some sort of priority, since not many cases have come from the highest level. A government, becomes this image that this is what really matters, to create an environment where only a few rich people can take a good loan while everyone else is going to have to go through. I think it's kind of ridiculous. Not only is this ridiculous but it is also something that poses an enormous risk to the economy of the country, as noted in a series of cases. Senators back there, they're offering the danger home. Mr. President. We have to stop playing roulette with our economy. It's just not available anymore. We've had one collapse. We shouldn't be setting things up for anything else. Although this bill may someday become legal, I think we must seriously talk about setting priorities first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u105	A respectable president. The bill mentioned here is actually a loan binding form, i.e. that gangstasy loans can be replaced by the currency bar, which is set in second row only. You may then be able to borrow a loan in a mixture of coins and formalize it. That existing laws allow individuals and companies to borrow in foreign currency to meet certain conditions. These conditions include the ability to earn, as when a person and a company take a loan in Icelandic. There's nothing else going on in this bill. The bill does not involve a challenge to any other person to borrow. Another closer one. Here, like domestic loans, we have a strong or at least a reminder of our ability to provide payment. It is strongly suggested in a talk that only the rich can borrow. Almost today, taking a loan in Iceland is just the more wealthy or the people with a high income. So there is no change. Likewise, to argue that there are only rich people who can take bank loans for low interest: If so, they take a greater risk than the variability that comes with so - called price insurance loans available here, i.e. the benefits may be wiped out. It was stated in a talk earlier that this was the ideal situation for borrowing foreign coins. There's something else. There are ideal conditions today to buy a foreign currency for the crown's funding, and even to keep that currency under the pillow, if there's room. In a speech like that. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir moved back there, as I tried to draw attention. But as for this change in interest of interest laws and consumer loan laws and mortgages, this is only a formalized framework. This does not involve a challenge. And let us remember, too, that it is so strange that only a small portion of mankind can borrow a dollar. It is strange that this small part of mankind, if available, is pressured to borrow this coin. If the person looks outside the landstones in the common European market - we are talking about the EU's internal market and the EEA, the European Economic Areas - they also agree with certain rules and frames. Here, as I have said many times, it is merely a formalizing of the deal frame involved. It has been claimed here that there will be some bad luck. In fact, similar bill has been investigated twice before; it happened twice before the council during the last term. At that time, representatives of a rural group reported that they had done quite well their research and found that only one year of borrowing would have been less successful. It was now all the risks they felt were in and wished to have this authority to borrow foreign rather than to commit it. I was also shocked that I didn't have any memory. I'm just fine memory, and I've also calculated a little loan status and now I'm borrowing. A few years ago, when the gangs of the Crown are strengthened here under abnormal circumstances, foreign loans as never before began to be borrowed, and the banks, now convicted, gave them credit but not with great knowledge. Once the dollar has gone through a long cycle of maintenance, there will be an even greater risk. You may need to look at the time when you look at those loans that are associated with foreign currency. In 8. See, if I remember correctly, I'm a little close to paying off. There, for example, does not say that a person who earns money in a foreign currency needs a lot of money or a lot of money. It is strange, then, to make shoes that taking loans according to these points is only more important: ◯... has passed a pay assessment assuming significant changes in progress and significant increases in interest. It is the equivalent of a law relating to financial loans. There may be a change in the index of consumer prices, and then there will be shots, i.e. The amount of payment may increase, so we need to act. The so - called securities are up, but they may not rise as fast as a gang loan or a loan in foreign currency, since gang changes usually occur much faster than changes in the index price. Then I'm going to step in here, and I've often wondered who makes money in foreign currency. They're catching fur now. Don't sailors make money on foreign coins? The income depends on the price of foreign currency. I think, for example. that sailors make money in foreign currency They're supposed to fall under the 8th team automatically. I simply say that interest laws should be generalized, making a general framework for the agreements of loans. If I know any law, there's only one kind of loan that's very legal, i.e. - What the fuck? But the bonds are a contract that is not dangerous at least to offer to the weak, the borrower, some support in these growth laws, whether in consumer loans, or in the laws on mortgages, or in general interest laws. But I'll repeat what I've said before that I believe this bill is an improvement. It's a frame. It is not a challenge to borrow. The case is likely to be properly treated. I'm looking forward to a financial and business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u106	Mr. President. Now I've heard of it. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason has a little experience with investments. Hence, it may be reasonable to ask: If you were to do so. A senator's goal of borrowing was to borrow, and especially when we remember that there has been a 2,225% rise in the last year's gang rate in euro. A senator taking foreign loans instead of domestic? I'm just asking. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator is familiar with the main behavioural characteristics of the so-called Brown process.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u107	A respectable president. I now believe both of these questions are outside the subject of the bill. Later, I'm going to say no. The first team may be a question of my private situation. A senator has nothing to do with anything. However, if we were to reflect on this in theory, after the description given by the senator, it is that once the crown's gang has grown greatly and the walk of the pound has fallen upon other coins and these advantages are available, the poor person would not borrow the coins that have fallen because they could gain strength. If the U.S. dollar has gone up, the others have fallen. In spite of interest, it is the monopoly to take a loan from Icelandic dollars. And even borrowing money from Icelandic dollars and buying foreign coins, as it may be that when you get out of a balance phase, you will benefit. But I repeat, I believe that the subject of the questions has nothing to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u108	Mr. President. I thank you for the answer, but it's about the way I thought about the last couple of years. But, actually, it was a problem. A senator's behavior is somewhat correct. When the currency has increased considerably, of course, it will eventually look down. This point is exactly what has been talked a lot about. And for the other thing, you might want to wait for the crown's gang to get a little weaker before such a loan, but when we are talking about such differences in terms of growth rates, the motivation is, of course, there. That is exactly why I view the bill as an incentive to borrow foreign coins if economic circumstances are like that. They may not be at this moment, but we know that the crew of the crown will at some point go down against other currency. It's the nature of Brown processes. It is the nature of all things to look for their balance. Of course, I'm not snooping in the private interest of what. paritaprevir But I would like to understand why Vilhjálmur, the son of Bjarnason, feels that there is no motivation in this and no risk to the economy. Because that's exactly the point of the bill, that's exactly what we're talking about here. And that he doesn't see the reason to take a loan at this moment, what if the walk would turn down 20.25% to euro in the near future? Would it not be a little interesting, then, to take such a loan?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u109	A respectable president. It may be interesting, it just depends on the situation. But I say again and again that the code of law under consideration is not a challenge of any kind. I don't really understand those speculations. I've said and repeated that I believe that if those alleged rich people I don't know exactly who are, they're willing to take a serious success risk on March 2, 2017, they're free. A risk to the economy is always present. Even when I buy a car and buy money to buy the car, it's a risk to the economy. I'm disrupting the market with just as simple a thing. If everyone went out today and bought a car, it would be a major market malfunction. It's a risk. [[Up front.]] And if such shepherding practices are expected in the bill, they are expected to respond. This is simply assumed for national security during the bill. I simply say, every loan movement, every capitalism, carries risks. In this bill, you are simply creating a frame. We never risk it. It's just so simple that there's a risk to humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u110	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you a few questions. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason's son. Of course, when I talk about ideal conditions, I refer to the ideal situation that there is a great deal of interest between the euro and the Icelandic crown. That should be why. A senator who knows very well. I'm just going to point out that the dollar is very strong at the moment. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in charge of it is likely now aware that the Navy bank has been on the market and good if it has not already purchased in the last 24 Source of 400 billion months so that some might ask themselves: " Could the dollar be even stronger than that? ' I would like to ask him what economics tell us in that regard. Then I'd also like to ask him how he appreciates this sentence that is in the bill, I'm just gonna read it back to him, and if he could explain it a little more clearly to the rest of us, because I know exactly how I understand it. It says: The borrower shall only lend loans linked to foreign currency to consumers as: b. has passed a pay assessment that allows for significant changes in order to occur and significant increases in interest of growth. I understand this so that whoever can resist such a situation, of course, has a financial allowance. That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees? When you've made financial decisions, doesn't that mean you've got more money? - Three questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u111	I only heard two of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u112	The President would like to remind the senators to request permission for a direct quote.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u113	A respectable president. I'm just going to go straight to work and say with my first question and the interest and the scholarship phase and buy the Secret Bank and how much I think it will: it's none of this. You should begin to learn it here at a council to address the subject of a bill rather than some elephant societal on something that has nothing to do with it. That's the kind of meditation we need. The senators in questions directed to me, and they don't have anything to do with the bill, I've tried to ignore them, and I have not answered such questions. Regarding the other thing, if you don't mind me asking. A senator from the seat, it was about the 9th team. par.? This is exactly the same as the equivalent of a set of laws and is in the presecure of loans. There may be shock there, and this is what developed four years ago the concept of a negative head chair. A negative head chair just doesn't matter. What really matters is a means of payment. In all loan agreements, it is likely that there is some room or some property to sell if the person's means of payment fall for any other reason, so I can understand it simply as there are a rule on payment. The third question, I haven't gotten it, I've fallen out, I just admit it. But that may be the case next round.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u114	A respectable president. I'm not surprised. A senator has no answers. He often comes in a pit with all sorts of claims that something is like this, but when it goes wrong. Unfortunately, a senator and he insists on answering, we come to the empty cabin all too often. It's happening here today. That's why I mentioned the ideal situation. I'm a little surprised that when it happened. A senator here presents such statements as this is not prepared to reason with other members of Congress. Just because he doesn't have any answers. This, of course, is not good for a discussion here at the council. I'd like to ask you again, though. Senator, how do you understand the "B" team? Who can survive significant changes and significant increases in growth? We know exactly who they are. It may be hard for you to know that there are only more wealthy people who can survive the crisis, but that's just the fact of it. I would like to have a good time, too. A senator showed me the exact same law on security loans, whether they must be able to pass pay, which includes substantial changes - it does not mean that these are insurance loans - or a significant increase in interest. I would appreciate it if he could refer to it and answer the questions that focus on him. It's just common courtesy.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u115	The President begs members of the council to direct his case to the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u116	A respectable president. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A senator a second time. I believe that again and again, meditation on interest rates and what the late bank will do has nothing to do with this matter. [[Up front.]] And I'm sorry that there's rarely any answers from me, and I'll be in a pit in time. I've been complimenting myself that I don't come in a punk much, and I'll only be in a pit when I have something to say, not to compete with any other person who's trying to get into the speech record. I simply say as an tolerated Icelandic banking system, I have undergone a pay assessment in Icelandic dollars that accounts for significant changes in interest rates, substantial changes in index prices. I don't have the law on my hand, but I don't think that these requirements of payment I've come up with were based on some law, and I don't think they were any unreasonable either. It is quite simply a matter of life that those who have a table for a bag have better credit cards, whether it is a state, a business, or a person. It's just a thing that my views don't change anything. I believe that this box is being set - in fact, someone may say it is absolutely unnecessary because foreign loans can be borrowed that have a second order of variable sizes. [[The president calls.]] So I can't see that these answers are not true. A senator has added something to his wisdom.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u117	A respectable president. It has been interesting to observe the discussion on this subject today. Those who support the case, members of the government, have striven to come up here and put it down, now that is not a big deal, and now it is not the norm in the capitalistic world. They're right. That's the way life is now. It is also true that this matter is, as we sometimes say at the council, that there are not very many people interested in sitting in a Senate hall or listening or participating in a discussion about it, I do not talk about it when late Thursdays pass. Yet, this is a matter of principle. We've got a case here for EEA's rights. It matters how this arrangement is made in Iceland, in a country with 332 thousand consumers, people with their own coins. So here it is being said to open up an instrument for taking back a successful loan, not many years after we had to go through because it was taken a considerable load of success loans, with the consequences for both the Icelandic economy and many individuals who borrowed such loans. I mentioned earlier that this was the third time the case was presented. They have been submitted twice before, in the 144th and 145th legislature, and are restored in several adjustments. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Alfreðsdóttir read here from the report, on page 24. 5, chapter 2.2, experience of financial failure in 2008. I encourage interested ones to read it and then wonder what it is like to do this in the bill when a person has studied that chapter. I'm not gonna let a president read it. The reason why the bill is presented here for the third time is that during the last term of the Agency government and the Independence Party, we held forward to this resolution. It was a large part of the assembly that was as worried as we were. However, it never tested whether more was involved, for it did not come to a vote at the end of the season. After all, we progressive people believe that there should be one nation in that land and that it is to sit at the same table. No matter how painful it is to hear what supports this way, when it comes to this matter, the possibility is being opened up and given more material opportunities to borrow with a very different interest level than the loans offered to others. That's why we're against this way. Increasingly, a window on economic instability is being opened. It says that financial standards and the Council has permission to intervene. When do we interrupt? What is the threshold? When do people say that enough is enough and that there is a risk and that there is a need for intervention? Who, then, have had the opportunity to borrow anything other than all the majority of the people of the land? The question may be: Why is this being done? I'm not gonna answer that. I'd much rather see that the government was looking at a positive view of Iceland's growth proposal and if we could not aim for growth here to be lower in the past than they've been here for a long time, where all Icelanders would be seated at the same level if it was possible to reduce growth, including apartment loans to everyone. Six-stage interpretation proposals. But the way we're going here is, so those consumers who pass the law of the b-join 8. g., obtain both payment and be able to anticipate significant improvements in growth and make sufficient money in currency, such loans should be available, others should not. During the last terms, a change in b- team 8 was proposed. g., adding on the basis of the payment and the possibility that men could tolerate significant changes in gang peace and significant increases in interest. Added: And give up foreign assets in the currency associated with the loan insurance, and then: Or c. Self - centered people felt that this was a lot of forethought during the last term and that it was unnecessary to go so far as to ensure that these individuals would take such loans, they would just have to take this risk for themselves. On the other hand, we observed that this was forethought and justice because we borrow a large group of people and they will not be stopped until at the top of the hour there is a risk of economic stability. And where does he land? He strikes all the others who did not have the opportunity to borrow success on lower interest rates. Rather, he has to sit on the soup of securable loans that will raise such instability. Also, it may be wondered whether the cow's bank loses a significant number of people's money and turns them into foreign success loans. Bad borrowers are indeed threatening the stability of the currency. This may increase the fluctuation of the crown's gangs, for, of course, people will try to defend themselves, paving for a great weakness on the crown. It's a question why the government wants to offer that danger back. Then we know that this is where the Navy bank's equipment is called "Aggression. " It was well - known when a very large group of people in Iceland had a foreign gang insurance loan that the steering growth device was not working. In other words, there are some who are to avoid the steering device; others are to live with the device and its resulting growth. As I mentioned earlier, when the damage is done, the question is, Will the well be stopped? Hv. paritaprevir Alfreðsdóttir Alffreddóttir here mentioned that there are not only small countries like Iceland with few residents and special coins that look to the problems of success loans. This has been a reference to Austria. In many countries that have even euro and are in the European Union, there have been a wide range of instruments, such as seagulls, to ensure that there is a greater stability in their economic situation. What a contrast that was during our last term under the leadership of the candidates! That's why this case is not over. It's hard to understand why new things happen. The secretary of finance is so stiff as to open a loan type that can be used as a sign, as it were, from the beginning. In both other times during the last term, the Council warned that this would be opened because of the damage it has done to Iceland in the past and, indeed, in many other countries as well. However, during the last term, the completion of the new release of total mortgage laws was achieved. The plans for the then financial minister were like those of the current minister, allowing the home loan to remain undefeated loans. Then, with a great struggle and mutual solidarity, members of Congress were able to make a change in order to prevent such loans from being granted unattained loans. If this new bill becomes legal, the change is reversed, allowing the wealthy to borrow such a loan. That would certainly be a great return. In other words, the current minister of finance and present government is going to go further, but the current law adopted during the last term reached a solidarity in the council. Finally, Mr. President, it's clear that we need to respond to EU opinion. It is also evident that we, the Icelandic nation, have learned best from the danger of going unwarrantedly about the door of joy where we are opening new loans, new loans, in walked - on loans. I want to encourage the Senate, and trust that it will be done in trouble. The Economic and Business Committee, to take a good look at this matter, and to look at the reviews, especially the Pentateuch, from the last term before a man handles the matter further. I'd like to end this case by repeating my question to the highest level. Secretary of finance: What is the threshold, according to his view? When should financial facilities intervene? What is the amount of money that can be taken out of this loan class before people feel that it is necessary to act?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u118	A respectable president. I want to thank the senators for this discussion that has been here today. I reiterate that I fully understand the concern of the risks of such loans. I repeat what I said in reply to a previous answer that there is no reason to encourage the public to take a risk of such loans. I'd like to say what, too. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson that I have no record of when to intervene if it had come at great risk of such loans, but I draw attention to it and repeat what I've said before that here we are talking about allowing in a slightly different way the loans that are already permitted, i.e. It's allowed for the public to borrow in currency. Of course, all of them follow the same dangers that it uses the same payment as the meaning would be used for such loans. So this is not a complete change in form from previously existing levels. It is being opened on a very similar form as already allowed, for example. Allowed in the government as a matter of course. A senator sat in his last term. Here I think we all know that the point is that we've been given this clear recommendation to accept it, to set this kind of law in Icelandic law. The last warning that we have been given has been given. I don't think it's worth a lot of money on our part to accept this change, because here we're not talking about big morphological change, but more morphization of certain loans. But finally, I want to say that I want to say something. paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson, and hoping so. A financial and business committee will consider the matter well, get reviews about it from sources, and find out what this may include because I am convinced that it will come to the conclusion that there is a minor morphological change that is appropriate for Icelanders to take in their own laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u119	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a European financial monitoring system. This monitoring system is aimed at protecting the interests of the public and the financial market by promoting the stability and health of the financial system on the internal market of the EEA. Iceland became a member of the European financial monitoring system last September, after its resolution by the General Assembly. The three European monitoring agencies are the European Bank Control Agency, known as EBA, the European Life Insurance and Penitentiary Fund, called EIPA, and the European stock market, called the EUMA. All of them are independent of their own budget. Their primary role is to protect public interest and to promote stability and efficiency in the financial systems of the financial markets employed by the institution. The European System Management Board, ESRB, is also part of the system but it does not have binding authority, it is therefore aimed at evaluating and monitoring system risk and detecting potential economic threats in the European Union. The three institutions started in 2011 in the European Union, but after the Regulation was adopted in the EEA Convention, the system reaches the EEA countries as well. The rules are implemented as they have been adapted to the EEA Convention. The EFTA monitoring centre will be undertaken by the EFTA State within the EEA and will have the binding authority warrants of the European Competent Authority in the Member States and, exceptionally, to individuals and to the legislators. The decision of the EFTA monitoring facility will be made to the EFTA Court. Therefore, the EFTA monitoring centre will be made up of financial markets in the EEA, in the same way as the European Observation Centres are on the European Union. The role of ESA, the EFTA monitoring facility, is addressed in the adaptation text to the decisions made by the Joint EEA Committee. It is important to insist that the authority and authority of the expected ESAs are primarily designed for disaster, and the principle remains to be a financial check on national rights, here in the United Nations. The role and authority options are discussed in the Regulation itself, suggested to obtain the legal value. There was considerable coverage of the institutions, their authority and adaptation to the recording of the EU contract at the last legislation meeting. For a detailed discussion of the prehistoric nature of this case, we can find a proposal for the resolution laid before the Council and adopted in September. The draft proposal was accompanied by a panel of administrative sources for the induction of the species. Four main forms of the European monitoring agencies are proposed, i.e. EBA, EIPA and ESMA will be given legislation values as well as types of the European System Risk Management Board. The rules for monitoring are listed in comments to the bill and will be followed by the review of the main policy at the SEC in cooperation with the EFTA monitoring agency. Information from FME to European monitoring institutions is permitted through the bill. The bill contains information from the FME, i.e. The European Commission to ESAs and other EEA institutions. It is requested that the specificity of the EFTA monitoring facility be established in this field. Then there is a change in the law on official control of financial activities that address the information of the UNECE and lead to other aspects of the bill. The bill is provided with an electronic package containing the regulations adapted to the EEA Convention. This document is for information. A respectable president. With legalisation of this bill, Iceland receives access to the European financial monitoring system. I would like to draw special attention to the fact that the implementation of this monitoring system in Icelandic law is essential for continued participation in Iceland's IX. Annex of the EEA Convention for financial services. Iceland's Member States that the system is necessary for financial companies to be able to work at the internal market of the EEA, for financial services, and for cross-border business. Finally, the solution to the recording of the EU contracts, based on the two support systems, was a victory for Iceland and the EEA. This bill is also adopted as a prerequisite for legalization in financial legislation, i.e. improvements in Iceland have committed to enforcing Icelandic legislation on the basis of the EEA Convention and directly linked to the licences of the EFTA and European monitoring centres. Their legalization is important in ensuring the competitiveness of parties in a domestic financial market and promoting a clearer legal environment in accordance with that in neighboring countries. I want to conclude that I believe it is very important that this bill succeeds in strengthening the financial markets in this country and in ensuring the success of Iceland's membership in the EEA Convention. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u120	Mr. President. Thank you for your advance. The secretary of finance and the figure that this looks like a very good bill that will improve the financial market management and can't be helped. Still, I want to be curious, and maybe this is really a philosophical question, but it is important for the way we administer the government of our country. This means that there is actually a double development in the surveillance system. EBA, ESMA, and EOIPA belong to the so - called EUsta, but there is an EFTA monitoring agency, who, of course, performs a role as well. There is a match, and even twice. Now I'm very fond of the EFTA deal and things in there. But I'd like to get a little curious and ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether or not he worries about the double. The bill is now referred to as a cost of some 31 million a year, if I don't miss, which is a very insignificant sum for a trust fund. Nevertheless, we are, of course, also paying to finance the EFTA monitoring agency, and I would like to ask, " Is there no room to make better use of the interaction in such a way that there is less double money and less cost, and there will be even more efficiency in the surveillance systems we are on? '
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u121	A respectable president. I thank a senator for the answer. I think that in his question, there's a certain core of truth, there's a double balance, but the reason for the binary is that we're based on the two-part system, i.e. It's a system that Iceland has access to, but we can't hear directly from these institutions. If they make comments, it is not a valid comment because we do not hear their jurisdiction directly but do it through these foundations, i.e. ESA and EFTA Court. It wouldn't be until EFTA's office made a comment, and this could take place at the EFTA Court that we have access to. We have access to both of these institutions, but we do not have direct access to these European institutions. That's why this solution is so important. But we are not under surveillance from institutions where we do not have direct access.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u122	Mr. President. I thank you for the answer, and I can say that it is of course desirable that we are not entirely dependent on institutions that we are not members of and that we have no control over. However, it may lead to another question about whether there is no basis for seeking that there will be a much closer cooperation in such a way that we have direct access to these institutions. This is now the European Union's institutions, and perhaps this will go into the nature of Iceland and the EEA communication with the European Union, but there may be an opportunity for further cooperation by allowing more EU institutions to have access to the EFTA countries, and the EEA in particular, to have access to them. Although we may be talking about EBA, ESMA, and EOIPA, other institutions that exist either on the basis of the European Union or another European community with which Iceland has different access to and could be closer. It would be interesting to know if the highest. A financial minister has some opinions about how we might try to approach these institutions rather by some change in our cooperation skills.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u123	A respectable president. The simple answer to this is that we could be fully involved in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u124	Why don't we do it, then?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u125	Like what? I'm sure a senator is aware that it would be desirable for Iceland to continue that course. However, we must realize that in this matter of concern. A senator points out that although we do not have control over these institutions, in itself we have a measure of access to them. The F.O. has, I suppose, a representative of the Agency's Council of Counsellors, I don't quite remember what that advice is, and I believe that I think and I know that some others who work in financial markets have attended these meetings and conferences. So it's not that we're isolated from these institutions. Rather, we've had important relationships that, of course, are very important because we want to be active in this monitoring and make sure that the rules under Icelandic financial companies are the same as those in our country and elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-02-38.u126	A respectable president. Here is a big issue involved in closer European cooperation to monitor financial markets in the EEA all over the world. The bill includes being involved in Iceland's membership that a European financial monitoring system will be legalized. The system is designed to protect the interests of the public and the financial market by promoting the stability and health of the financial system. With a so - called two - point solution, Iceland becomes part of a system where four surveillance agencies are involved. It's the European Bank Control Agency, the European Social Security and Pension Fund, the European Stock market and the European System Risk Management Agency. The purpose of these four institutions is to ensure closer cooperation with financial monitoring of Member States, facilitate the application of European solutions due to problems relating to many countries, and to support the homologous application and interpretation of rules. This puts it this way to say that the budget for financial markets within the European Economic Area will be in the hands of European institutions, but daily monitoring of financial companies and markets will still be in the hands of individual countries, apart from the supervision of loan-making companies and the conduct of business files. The arrival of Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein has been legalized to the EEA on the basis of the two-part system. It was a requirement for Iceland to do so, including to meet the administrative conditions and limits established by Iceland's expeditation of power to the abroad-supervised organisations. EFTA, ESA, will be a financier with regard to the EFTA countries in the EEA. This means that the power to make binding decisions in the European observation Centres within the EU will be transferred to the EFTA monitoring centre within the EFTA centre. All binding decisions for the government and financial market policy in the EFTA countries in the EEA will be taken from the EFTA, ESA. The decisions of this institution can be made to the EFTA Court in a comparable way to decisions made by the European Commission's decision-makers. This solution is based, among other things, on the detailed opinions of the lawyers Björg Thorarensen, Stefánsson, and Skúli Magnússon. At a meeting of the European Commission and the EFTA countries within the EEA in 2014, there was a agreement on key elements in adaptation of the European Commission regulations to the EEA Convention. The agreement acknowledged the importance of the new EU monitoring institutions for the maintenance and development of one agreed market for financial services and thus the implementation of the regulations in the EEA Convention. A solution was found to take into account both parties' interests, structure and objectives of both the EU types and the EEA Convention, as well as the European Union's legal and political limitations and the EFTA countries within the EEA. In summary, the EFTA countries in the EEA recognized the importance of the EU's new monitoring system for the internal market and thereby the aims of the EEA agreement individually. At the same time, the European Union acknowledged that adapting this system to the EEA Convention would take into account the basic rules of the agreement. This was achieved, not least by recognition of Iceland's views. A respectable president. It's been successful for Iceland to become part of this important surveillance system without overcoming the limitations of our administration directive. Nevertheless, there is always good reason to be on guard and to remind us of the need to meet the urgent need to review our constitution to explain more fully the sources we have to share in international cooperation, including international institutions that play an important role in cooperation in European and international fields.
