ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u1	A respectable president. In recent years, there has been an increase in racial prejudice in Iceland, especially against Muslims. This is stated in a new report by the European Parliament on Iceland, which includes: deals with racial prejudice and discrimination. Since 2011, much has been achieved, but in many ways we need to do better. Online hatred is a special concern. The General has adopted legislation against hatred speech against sexual orientation or sexual awareness, and there has been a unique status for the police investigating a hate crime in the capital area. A database has been set up to monitor online hate speech. However, there is not yet a total law that forbids any form of discrimination and that has not been established a specialized agency to cope with racial prejudice and discrimination. The report also criticizes government policy since 2007 on adaptation of immigrants. There's no target or intended result. Then there is no national policy or an immigrant adaptation plan in progress here. This is concluded by a report by the International Institutes for Refugees, which were published during the days, including the United States University of Iceland. is proposed to be set up here on this land by an institution involving foreigners. The European Parliament suggests improvements: The mention of culminating legal requirements may be adopted when prejudice is behind the offense and the setting up of a centre in Reykjavík, like the powerful multi-cultural and information centre at Isafun, which has proved its position. Then the authorities should implement a detailed lead-in plan for immigrants in this country. Reports suggest that authorities complete a gay community projection program, take action that aims to deal with hatred speech, as well as to address school harassment. It is important that the Council stay awake in this matter, the matter affects all of us, members of the Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u2	A respectable president. The strong foreign position of the nation's population and the sponsorship of the crown in recent years have created opportunities for decompression. A faith - strengthening plan for emissions of capital waste has yielded great results, and Iceland has won international trust. There is now reports that governments are involved with the representatives of the U.S. investment funds to investigate the basis for an agreement that would enable them to take their possessions out of the country in exchange for currency. A total of except the property of these funds is well over 100 billion in deportations in Iceland. In June, the council refused to participate in the bank of Iceland's currency and agreed to the government's conditions or returned an offer to be accepted by the Sullabana. The management authorities have complained to EFTA about the actions of the United States government and claim that they intend to test their rights in court. However, in a decision issued by ESA in November, no comment was made by the funds; it was said that government measures were in harmony with Iceland's commitment to the EEA Convention. If you're not a student of the country, you're the one who chose not to participate in the bank's currency campaign in June, you'll have to be subject to the fact that their funds are moving into interest-less accounts for an indefinite period of time. I think it is very important that the government maintains the budget for the emissions of capitalists, where gang-stabilities and financial stability in behalf of the people of the country were always maintained in the entire government work. The plan has enjoyed credibility and success. The next step in the emissions of capital waste is further emissions from the public and businesses of the country. Therefore, it would be a change of policy if an Offland owner should be allowed his property ahead of the public and businesses of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u3	Madam President. Our fifth event at this council today is the Congress resolution proposed as the one listed here, together with representatives of the Pirata, the Left Green, the Controversion and Rist. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who is a member of the Parliament's decree, suggests that the General concluded to hide the government from taking needed measures to mark the origin of products produced in the occupied areas of Palestine in a proper way and, on the other hand, to enable the Palestinians to use the benefits of the EFTA and Palestine vacation agreement. Madam President. I would like to encourage everyone to study this suggestion and give her support. Strong opinions on illegal military education and continued Israelite war crimes have been signed on the western bank of Gaza. The settlements, as well as the repeated violations of the Geneva Convention, are just one breath of the great injustice, war crime, and crime against mankind committed in Palestine and the Palestinian nation every day. One frightening example is the systematic imprisonment and torture of children on the west bank under the presumption of throwing stones into Israelite armored cars. Palestinian children are the only children of this world where it is recognized that they can be tried by the military court of the enemy as a military officer of their home. Today's Conspiracy proposal is just one area that the Council can add to the scales in order to describe our zeal and conflict with our persistent war crime, the crimes against mankind, and the great injustices that have been experienced by a Palestinian nation for many decades. I urge everyone to give this proposal support.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u4	V.E.G. President. On September 24, 2015, a team of children's equal status returned their results. The results were that changes in child law will be made to balance the status of parents who share their child's custody and decide to raise a child together in two households. The results of the group were that a new law should be introduced into the laws given to a child by homes based on the established agreement of parents to meet certain conditions. In addition, there are various laws on official support, changes in law on law, and changes in child law. At the same time, rural societies are suggested to adjust their social services, thus taking an active account of the same responsibility as the family of parents in the training and care of children in matters that they care for and fall under the authority of rural society. It has been a year and a half since the work force returned its results. The only changes that have been made are that by a new law on housing, a child is to his family, which is a very positive step. However, there is still another action proposed by the Outfit. Therefore, during the days, I asked for a question about what has happened. General Assembly to the highest. Minister of Justice, where I asked if the work was done on the basis of a report of the former Supreme Court. In September 2015, the Minister of Ministers on the residence of children who live in two homes before the General Assembly. If so, when would the bills be put forward? If not, when will the Minister begin his work? I have full faith that a minister will quickly and carefully answer my inquiry as this case is one of the priorities of the present. Governments. In the government covenant, there is also the question. that the community should support different family types and encourage parents who do not live together to bring up their children. It also shows that the right of children to be registered in a divided home in two legal homes and that the status of members of their parents in law - abiding parents will be balanced.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u5	A respectable president. In an interview with RUV, the following answered the question, by permission of the president: The report has really not come to us in the final form until after the assembly is returned. It's a simple lie. The excuse for this was an inaccurate time line. This is the time line, in view of the information that we have received since then, that the Ministry of finance was held on October 5. The Ministry of Economics sent the government a memo on October 7th. In the public speaker's office, the Minister said: Similarly, during the following days I will have a report on the issues I was preaching in spring regarding their scope. That's where the Minister knows the report's ready. In a special discussion here last week, the minister also says: "The end of this report was being answered. According to my information, only the press found that the report was completed after the election. The question is, Has the press been lied to for elections as well, and if they have been told that the report was about to be ready for election, the prime minister really knew that the report was ready? During a special discussion last week, the prime minister said: ▪ I have never been in connection with this report to determine whether any subject was of greater importance than other public interest. This is of utmost importance, for the prime minister has initiatives to publish information to the public, not at the council, but to the public, on issues of public interest. It is his duty to decide whether or not material he has in his hands is a matter of public interest. In this case, however, a minister is relatively incompetent because of his involvement with dematerialities, and all of this, all these timelines and all these comments, suggesting that a minister has deliberately lied. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u6	Madam President. Here was last night a fine debate over a council resolution that I make along with the four shipping agents from four categories on the separation of business banking and investment banking. The most important thing that caught my attention in that discussion was the matter. The members of different categories came up here and discussed the points along with the points of the proposal that they considered important to emphasize when it was time to shape a vision for the financial system in Iceland. At the same time, it has been proposed to be a business owner with none of these factors being handled. Ownership, which might be called a seller's policy in actuality, which is offered to all the holdings of the state apart from the smaller holdings of Iceland's Bank, in banks, but there is no basis for the size of the bank system, the requirement for possession of new financial companies, separate business banks and investment operations, the compression of financial companies. None of these points are addressed in the owner's policy. We had a meeting this morning on my wish with the highest order. Economic and economic secretary to the Economic and Business Committee on this policy of owner. At that meeting, it was decided that it was important to do so. A financial and business committee took up this matter, a vision of the financial market in Iceland. I'm going to use this opportunity and rejoice that the committee will take this matter into its own hands, for it is entirely unacceptable that governments intend to attack in major bank sales, bank-outlets could call it, when almost all the state's property parts are placed on the sale list, although it is said to be a cautionary one, without a vision of how the financial market should exist in the future. This should be one of the most important objectives of government today. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm glad to hear that the Economic and Business Committee is willing to take the initiative in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u7	A respectable president. We here at the General Assembly see that many people feel that our time is not well - treated, that we are once again, in untimely hiding over a bill that is at odds with public health, social, medical, and psychological logic, i.e. The standard sense of free little alcohol, and common sense, which is a defense against foolishness, is oversold enough in many parts of the community to make a number of critics hear a waste of time. Most people find it more important that we now discuss other urgent matters. Madam President. Every day, when we open our website, we see messages from poor people, young people, older citizens, microorganisms, and people who feel that they have been maligned by the authorities. They ask for help or encourage us. These are personal letters, sometimes prophetic, letters of tragedy, intolerable circumstances, poverty, inequities in the rich and prosperous Iceland of 2017, not 1817. Sadly, each member of the Parliament can do little or nothing to save, but that can be done by government and Congress. We have to clean up our pants and skirts and make decisions and perform improvements in the welfare and pay system that contribute to balance and fairness. So even if the government has led policy and all handholds to those less lenient or to those who need assistance, it is not to be confined in the economy. This is the wrong policy, intended to prevent the support of those who now have more to share in the use and well - being of them. But we can talk and do the opposite. That's the message on the day of praise and ashes. Today is the day of praise. If we were to change our gear, we would surely reap commendation from people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u8	Madam President. I'm here to make a subject, as far as two minutes can be done, the situation with regard to the development of the real estate and the survival of export analysis. In fact, I've asked for a special discussion on the subject, hopefully getting on the program as soon as possible at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. Strength of the gang of about In addition to the many main coins of our business and export areas, as well as the costs of several additional increases and difficulties in certain markets, the mass of exports, fishing roads, and other exports have been significantly altered in a short period of time. It is driven by the adventurous growth of tourism, where we now see in winter months to an increase of 50 in the same month between the same month and the year. For the first time in history, service income is more valuable than freight export, last year. Incomes from the arrival of foreign tourists are approaching 40% of export income at the same time as the seafront has 19% and 15%, respectively. So dramatic is the transition in the economy. The problem, however, is that there will also be great consequences. Smaller and medium-sized fishing companies will bleed out in the next few months, or miss, and technology, knowledge and innovations will vote with their feet and leave the country if they look. The government has to wake up from the hibernation. It is building a imbalance in this way that the economy will not survive in the long run, unless one is willing to accept the tremendous impact it will then have in the economy and will eventually end up badly with sharp adaptations and major collapses. As far as I'm concerned, the crown's overheat must be stopped immediately, and the dollar has to be weakened by about 5 to 10% rather than by her tolerance of the same figures. The government has to wake up, and uniform measures need to be taken. [[The president calls.]] The release of the seagull could contribute to this, but the pension fund, in my opinion, has to move money out of the country, the Sentencing must continue to be paid and, eventually, have to break something down the tourism growth so that the situation can be controlled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to make a subject for today's wealth and quality exchange in this country rather than for the division of wealth and quality. The point is, not that there was a new report or anything. Rather, it was simply that following the fact that the core was designated to a press prize, I ran through articles on this, and I realized that, in fact, we are moving on in a worse way. In the last six years, according to the core, Iceland's own money doubled and increased by 1,384 billion, while from 2010 the richest 10% of the population received four out of ten dollars. These are over 20,000 families, which had about 1,888 billion by the end of 2015, 64% of national property. The switch has increased tax system changes in the last government, making it only the best use of the 20%. It is more important than tears that the current government is going to provide a perfect cover for the tax changes, that there is not a trace of the willingness to use the tax system for income relief. In addition, the current government announces additional services, that it should be paid for use instead of taking through the common national funds. I'm really worried about where this community is headed, now going to privatize all the banks, stay on guard for the best of all, we're going to give away our citizenship and let private people everywhere and then charge in. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does anyone hear the sounds of the vaccinations before the crash?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u10	Madam President. On the International Day of Commendation, I will begin by giving commendation. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for attracting attention to the most easing position of employment and nation because of the crown's strength. Takes care of him for that. But another compliment is also given on this day's roadmaking because an assessment of the Organization for Western Road 60 has been submitted, or the section between the Bjarnians and the Riseness in the Smokehlah carpet. Now it is in the hands of the Organization to review this report, providing four weeks, or until the end of March. There is no need for a long story about the sad history of this case. A decade of transportation on the south side of the West. A case such as this, which has kept the inhabitants of the West, especially in the southern part of the West, in total vats, and in every structure at hand. This case has been such a bottleneck that it has to be stated here that it must have a top priority for the European Commission and institutions to ensure that the road transport that needs to be achieved in this area will do so. Even so, the Lawgiver's means of making sure that it can, for these benefits are no longer possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u11	A respectable president. In fact, I was going to commend in this talk, as did the one before me, but I can't put a talk at all. paritaprevir Just now, the Björn of Leví Gunnarsson accuses former finance minister and current prime minister of lies. He says more than that. He said that the prime minister will deliberately lie from that chair. I thought that there would be comments to such expressions at the council. I have to say, as it is, in advance, I don't usually assume that here in this chair comes men or women to lie. It is very minor to carry such things on humans, the rulers of this nation, and members of the council. Pirats wanted to come to a council to change the tradition. They planned to fix the job at the council. They were opposed to the way the senators had spoken here. Those of us who went to the College of Congress in 2013 were told to fix the tradition, and we've been doing it, except the Pirats that carry people like that. It is below every block that from this public assembly, others should be treated with the same fault. I can't keep it to myself. [[Up front.]] I think it's so petty. It's a small discussion. And she's at Pirata's offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u12	A respectable president. I'm here to have a language place at the highest level. Minister of health for his vision in the seminary. I would like to start my discussion by referring to the collection of signatures, which actually surrounded the entire public debate in the process of election, and was about requiring the General for each year 11% of GDP for health management. It even got worse. that all classes, I think, have put health matters first, and that is, in fact, the highest. In his work declaration, the government says that the legal party is at the top of the list and the highest. Of course, a minister has an important role. So I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, because there is also a flash of air. We know in politics at all times that the money elements are reaching the health, health, and education systems when there is no resistance to money, without the means to profit, that they are being brought into the hands of the public interests. That's what we've seen before and now. It is as early as it is now, and perhaps in a very decisive way, when a candidate's application to obtain a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance on something that can be called only when a private hospital is in place and at the highest level. A minister stands before that decision. At the same time, however, it has the highest. A minister says in speech and literature and at the Council even that he wants to assure us and the World Congress, that he will not make major changes in the medical system. That's his word. It doesn't exist. He wants to work on a universal health policy before anything else is done, so I'll witness directly to his Word. This is very important, especially in view of the fact that much changes in the current system can be made on the basis of existing laws. Therefore, not all changes are the kind of changes that could be found in the pipes that would need to be discussed at the General, and include changes in the management of individual isolates. For example, during the last term, we saw in terms of private health centres in the capital area. The question lies in the air, first of all, who thinks it is the highest. Ministers to be natural contributions to the health system as a proportion of GDP? Then specific contributions to the public system are asked, i.e. contributions to the public system in comparison with the private systems. We know that it has been so recent in recent years that public donations for the private ministry have grown more proportionately than to the public ministry. It's actually very hard to lean on, and we have to remember it and think that there's always a matter of talking about financing from the public, no matter where the money flows. Adding more money to health care does not necessarily mean supporting the public system involved in the equation. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister, what is his position on the exchange of funds to the jury? Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, for he now lives well with a powerful surgeon on his side and to give him advice on health care matters, whether he agrees with a surgeon regarding the importance of using public health equipment, such as the private sale of alcohol, to limit access to that product in accordance with, in fact, the government's official drug policies. Also, I would like to ask the highest. The Minister on his position on a sugar tax with similar logic, both of which are the public health tools.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u13	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. For this special discussion and for its talk, good meditation, and excellent questions, a member of the body is eager. The Bjart's government, the restoration, and the Independence Party, have put health issues first, as it were. A senator noted in his speech, and in the policy of the government, there is special emphasis on the overall approach to health care and that the country has access to good health care regardless of the economy or the habitat. I specifically mention this because I am here quoting directly from the Constitution, but also because of the problem. A senator mentioned that I have, so I witness, in speech, in writing, and even in the past. and I want to put total health policy, watch the whole area before I start making some major changes in the system as it is. I want to make sure of what. A senator says that what I have said in a talk, a publication, and the Council is as much here today as it was when I last said it. In the Treaty, it is stated that health matters are a prime concern for the government. That is in harmony with the discussion. A senator spoke of the following, including large signatures and many of the polls show that much more of the country's population is concerned that health matters should take priority. So it is very important to me that this is the first thing and the key points of the Treaty as a emphasis and rightly a great responsibility to those taking the lead here. When we talk about putting health matters first, we are talking about raising money to the seminary. We are talking about the structure of health - care infrastructure, as well as about human resources, health - care status, and the discussion between the last few days of the visit to nurses. It is important for us, not just in short - term circumstances, but over time, that we live under the medical professions. During these days, the preparation of a five - year budget of the government is under way and, of course, the need to consider both the budget and the management plans for the next few years are being considered. It's a bit difficult to talk about the amount during this work being done exactly, but it's clear that with emphasis on health tops, it's intended to increase to the seminary and to increase proportion, as a proportion of land production. However, I've had a little bit of a doubt about straddling the criteria for a specific percentage of land production because national production is gonna bounce up and down and we don't want to stick to our pre-existing savings if national production is reduced. I'd like to remind you that this resistance, or what we're supposed to call it, in the medical system, the funding of the medical system, has long begun. Only between budgets for 2016 and budgets for 2017, budgets adopted at the General Assembly, before the government formed much and took over, are expected to increase a 10% from year to year in the course of health care. It takes less than that. Of course, it is a large part of things going on that will go up, pay force, etc., but it's taking a big step. The building of a new hospital is also a very big step. In fact, I have to apologize for only being able to get into the discussion and what I had prepared for it, hoping I would come into it better into the second speech and then speak more quickly than I was able to do right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u14	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this matter up for discussion. I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to share with you Pirata's policies on health care. That's where even the two of them come from. until we all have the right to provide adequate medical care, to equalize health care as basic human rights that all of us should have, that health care and the need for medical management should be determined to be free of charge, that the equipment and ideal health care professionals should be improved significantly, and that the health care system be removed. Pirates also want to move psychological services into the social security system, transfer dental services into the social security system and appropriate health care services for drug users in trouble, instead of punishment. At the same time, the Piratars stress long-term policy modeling for prevention. For the first time in human history, more deaths worldwide are related to obesity than to subweight - consider this fact for a moment. Distractions are part of training and education, and since consumption-related diseases have spread, even among the youngest age groups, who say they have diabetes and some complications of obesity and immobilisation, it seems obvious that high costs of diet and exercise are necessary, not only to improve the quality of life and survival of the people, but also to reduce the stress of health. There's something I'd like to go further along with. Why don't you start with school prevention? As soon as children are mature, they will be taught healthy ways of life and prevention in school. You see, we need to work together to find solutions and to view our systems completely. It would be helpful to know if the highest. A health minister would not be able to converse with the highest level of conversation. Education minister to see if they could work together to expand the share of Precautions in health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u15	A respectable president. I thank you for this very important discussion, and I'm going to start where I'm going to last night. A senator ended, on health care prevention. I think they're one of the major factors in this matter and will deal with them, how the funds are relevant to health care and the importance of innovation in health care. The defenses are a very broad part, and I'm going to give a few examples. First, it's what I've been talking about, i.e. that traffic security is health care. In Iceland alone, 200 people have to have the health system and the social security system every year. The traffic accident costs the community about 50 billion. Then we need to delay the need to go to the nursing room, try to help people to be as healthy as possible. One factor is to shorten a waiting list, such as after replacement operations. Then I think we need to go a few ways in that subject, whether it's personal or public. We're not supposed to be shy to negotiate with the clinical news about it. I think there are a considerable number of people who will need much more on the health system if they have to wait long for the cost of replacement surgery. Then we come to the budget. We need to make full use of the resources of our health - care system. There I believe that a variety of products give us room for different ways of doing things and how we can do it the best we can. It is also important to have the innovation there so that the staff themselves are prepared to find new ways and are interested in working in the health system, if there is a creative environment where they can enjoy themselves. More often than not, powerful women, such as nurses and others in the new world, are powerful women. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to make it possible for them. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u16	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's daughter for starting this important discussion. In recent years, it has been a clear and reasonable requirement for all to have access to health care. The requirement is that everyone has access regardless of their status, location, or economy. It is understandable, for despite the fact that during the last term much has been added to the seminary, more is needed. More funding must be added, improved health care providers' working environment, patient situation, and, above all, medical policies need to be added. In this context, our national hospital, i.e. The hospital, but also to the strong health centers we have in many parts of the country. A health plan resolution proposal is the priority of the candidates for this council winter. The point of the proposal is to the highest. Health Minister performs a health plan for Iceland. This schedule should be carried out with medical personnel in the medical professions, since it is the knowledge, the people who know the circumstances, parishes, and those that are more familiar with the system. Because circumstances may vary according to national health care and the emergency department, for example, in many parts of the country. Today, this is the priority of our candidates in a narrative process. The General welfare committee, with some comments already being received on the subject, including the U.S. Icelandic nurses' partner, who says that the company emphasizes that the preparation of a health plan for Iceland will be used to cooperate with health professionals in the health professions and that nurses will include them. Ready to participate in that work. So I'm going to ask the highest. The health minister will agree with me as to the candidate and the Society of Icelandic nurses on the importance of professional activity and on whether he intends to support it. Other points will be discussed in my second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u17	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Today, the advocate of this special discussion regarding the future health care arrangements in this country. I want to agree with a saying that it was a real pleasure for all classes to be united in the end of election that health matters had to be put first. This was something that we all experienced in these ◯ruruises that we took before the government was created, it was something we could all agree and unite about. You see, all of us agree that it is fundamental to have access to good health care regardless of economic and social status. This is exactly a priority for the government like what it is. paritaprevir Sagas Svavarsdóttir comes in correctly. One way to keep this in mind is to work on the government's second priority, to achieve stability in the economic and financial issues of this country. One of the main objectives, except that, of course, the improved quality of life for all, all of us, with increased stability, is to cover interest costs. By reaching the cost of growth, we have more to play into the health system, the education system, the general welfare system, without increasing the tax burden on the people. Everybody makes money. More stability means improved quality of life for everyone, and the state has more to play.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u18	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for starting this discussion, which is certainly timely. Hopefully, we often play this important theme in our community; health services, welfare matters. What is our view of the future in health care? Is there a health policy? That's what we're talking about. Well, the Ministry of State says that policy is clear, but a learned opinion of this is not effective. Sigurgeirsdóttir, Dr. Sadly, though, the general health issue is rarely checked, we are usually busy responding to shouts and shouts, putting out fires, and coping with what is at its highest level, even responding to professional favorites. A future view, or a developed idea of who to think of, does not exist. During the past few years, members of the nation have made a large effort to believe that the building, the building of a hospital, is a health policy. Just as decisions are made to divide funds from institutions on the other hand and from expert services outside them. Why is it decided that any surgery and treatment will take place within or outside the hospital? Why are the health institutions in the United States not allowed to practice the expert services they have the ability and will to sit at the same level as the clinics in the city? Will there be an opportunity to look to the individual and to the service he needs? Why are health institutions not allowed to provide services that they feel are practical for and without having to ask health - care professionals if they are in their line of work? The answers to these questions are considered by Sigurbjörg to be part of the arrangement for financing of the service that keeps the country's health institutions in a straitjacket in an unconvinced and untransparent manner. It needs to be changed, and it can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u19	Madam President. When discussing a vision for the future of health care, I think that among the people of the land, it is acceptable and highly demanding that health matters should have the priority in the development of infrastructure and improved services in the years to come. Secondly, I think there is also wide agreement on basic ideas, i.e. that we run public health systems, finance mutually with tax dollars, and that any form of currency is greatly reduced if it exists at the head of users. Third, I think there is peace with the local health care organization as far as it goes, i.e. that health care should be the first stop in the system and that it needs to be developed as such. There is also reconciliation with the need to build up a new home, even though there has been some debate about the location. Then what is the problem if we agree on this more and less, at least The nation, and to some extent, it applies to politics. What would be the problem if e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A health minister would come to the platform and say: "Yes, I agree with these basic systems in Iceland, which is built up and strengthened, that is to be on common ground, financed by the joint resources of the country through the tax system, payoffs are not to be used, and health care and a new U.S. The problem is that aggressive forces in this country are always trying to penetrate changes that go in the opposite direction. The system has become much more mixed. That's the problem. And it takes the highest. Healthcare Minister to pass the test. It must be established that we continually weaken the public health system and place billions more each year into our private business. It has to be spoken in human languages. What kind of health system do we want in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] Do we want to be in common, a public health system to the north or a Canadian role model, or do we want to move toward the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u20	A respectable president. I would like to start by thanking the advocate of this good and needed discussion. I would like to bring a call to the health - care network as a proportion of GDP. I think it's an interesting discussion, participated in it at the time, and thought it was a good idea. I'm still on it, and I think it's also part of the overall policy development being announced. This is one measure, but without deciding in advance that the donations are a percentage of GDP, I feel that it is important to define the service. I would like to take as an example the cases of aging that I find extremely important. If we do not react, the cost to the future will clearly increase. Now I've made a very good national health policy, which I find interesting, and I think is an important part of the overall policy development. I'm very interested in examining public health policy specifically, and part of it is that all rural areas become healthy communities. Another factor in public health is that such factors as nutrition, exercise, mental - health practices, and accidents take place. We may not be able to say that we are saving costs, but this is important to the quality of our ministry, and we are to use all ways to improve our business and cooperation with the State and rural groups to give people a good service, especially in close - up service.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u21	President. We may not have been exaggerating for a long time since we had a very similar conversation here at the council. Of course, we senators are rather anxious to begin to get a clear view of this class, since this is the legal sect that the public put the most emphasis on making an election, and it has been very clear when surveying how the common people want us members of the council, including ministers, our priorities for common resources. The world's health system is the longest on paper a year from now. So in view of this, I would like to ask the highest. Proppér Secretary of Health, when we senators can expect to see this complete vision. Is it really possible for us to get a chance to get something to her before she's mutilated in stone? I realize that it is difficult to bring a long-term plan to such a big case, and I've had a lot of trouble with it. A minister has searched the past, which is very good, for much work has taken place in the Ministry and elsewhere. Is the minister on the move yet? Can he bring a report to us on what issues are those that burn on the minister who become his red thread in the office of the health minister? Then it would be very helpful to hear how to do so. Ministers have succeeded in getting the money of this group in the long-term government program.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u22	V.E.G. President. It is a privilege to live in a state of parapolitic agreement about the importance of health care and the importance of talking about it is beneficial to improve all health - care services as far as possible. To that end, the discussion must often be clearer. It has specifically been said that the concept of private business often seems to be a misunderstanding, and all too common, that it is not a means of doing any business, as it is right, but something quite different. As a friendly example, I say a word of it. paritaprevir By permission of President Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson of December 7th: But in most cases we are talking about private business where public funds are also used for financial support, social security, or otherwise. ...I don't really want to call it private business, I think it's different. Private business where the public city is with me, I feel that I am more of a contractor or something like it. This may be a term that would be more convenient to have. I feel that private business is such that people are completely on their own terms and customers pay all the money. President. Except for those words. A candidate is a fine example of differences in understanding and feeling of terms I also mention them here to agree with him that this term use should be more specific. There is a basic premise in all discussions about the future vision of the health system, which is so far becoming a major concern in society, that it uses the same terms for the same aspects of the health system to avoid unnecessary confusion, uncertainty, and insecurity of this important matter among the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u23	V.E.G. President. As in my first talk, I will continue to discuss the priorities of our candidates in this discussion. During my first speech, I discussed the importance of cooperation with health - care professionals in the process of health care, including our comments on the importance of this subject by the Fégá of Icelandic nurses. I'm going to bring in other aspects of this matter. They are that a health plan should take into account geographic factors such as transportation and distance between habitats. This is essential, as during the past few years, health institutions throughout the country have been united. They are now caring for many of the four - quarter years of their life, and often it is a difficult way to go between work stations. The proposal should also take into account the localisation of the health centres, the population of age, the location of a medical vehicle, the availability of medical flights, the number of tourist facilities, the country's home, to name something. In addition, it should be noted that parishes are involved in making use of the means of health care in the country, thereby reducing the pressures of land hospitals. So I'm going to ask the highest. Health Ministers, if they agree with me and the candidate on the importance of promoting health institutions in many lands, hide, for example. The Krak hospitals here in the vicinity of the capital are increasing their specialized work, thus reducing the strain of land hospitals and adding funding to support health care and emergency services at these Kraga hospitals. A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. The senators of the Foreign Party hope to be the highest. A health minister agrees with us on the need to address these matters, for we need to answer the future perspective of health professionals and politicians, where we are going to go. Do we want to promote health institutions in many parts of the country, or are we going to be able to cover matters with increasing personal business? What do people want? This has given us a clear demand for what we all know. These are major questions, but a decision must be made. It's a long time ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u24	President. Here in my second input, I want to come because it is totally obvious that we need to create space to revise public payment by considering that people do not hesitate to seek necessary health care because of costs. It is unmistakably that a person's financial status and the financial status of his or her households are covered by a severe illness. It's unacceptable that people can be in this country where they can't afford to get sick. It's unacceptable. Therefore, a clear policy has been made to reduce the payment of health care providers in this government. But that's not enough. The availability of health care also needs to be good. It must be an appropriate place for us to care for those who get sick so that they are involved. Therefore, the government stresses that the rebuilding of a land hospital at the Ring Road will be no later than 223. In addition, it is extremely important to strengthen our health care facilities throughout the country as soon as possible. It also emphasizes the building of aging services. Then, talking about the country. It is a joy to relate that the government has placed emphasis on and in particular in a government contract that emphasizes the need to promote long - term health care. I look forward to seeing the work being done by the Ministry in that area, which I hope we can expect to take care of soon. This is of utmost importance to people in the settlements. Perhaps I would like to ask the highest part of my second talk. Ministers in this regard and when we can expect to see material on this important subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u25	A respectable president. We Icelanders and I have been successful in many aspects of health care. I mention the treatment of many acute diseases that leave individuals that most people will never fully agree on. Hence, we need to pay more attention to maintaining health and preventing disease, prevention. In Europe, our neighboring countries, nearly 3% of the budget is used for the prevention of health problems. In Iceland, the ratio is half as low, probably about 1.6%. There's the opportunity. The Icelandic health system is a so - called social system with a reference to the health systems of the Northern countries, but it has moved somewhat from its own ideal form of management and government implementation to private hands. This has occurred in an unremarkable, opaque manner, and aimlessly. This has been true despite the fact that repeated research does not compromise that the public feels that health care should be operated by the government. This is true despite the fact that foreign studies indicate that hospitals, for example, driven by businesses on profit, are more expensive than hospitals that are not fired and are not even more useful. The health care of the country suffers severe failure. This is the most important part of national health care. The government is now experimenting with a new form of operating in the health care system by personal management. It must be a requirement for every health center in the country to sit at the same level as at the level of financial transparency. This also applies to the role and services of other health institutions in all quarters of the country. Our strategy and future vision are lacking. But the question is, Will all health - care problems just be solved by growing funds? And the answer is my opinion: No. The increase in funds will only help to cover the built - in planning problems that now finance the health - care system and delay the handling of the problem. [[The president calls.]] I refer to the results of the McKinsey report that have been very much quoted.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u26	President. Thank you for your discussion and for the highest. Minister for answers as far as they can reach them. He had given us a promise to deepen them during his final talk. He points to prospective policy plans and says that prior to major changes it would be based on general policies and outlooks. When he spoke of the health status of his own system on January 25, 2016, he spoke up. Senator, with permission from the President: ▪ I think it's important that we get away from the numbers, up or down, and focus on making the paces real structure and schedule that are not just somewhere into the future, a vague future, if well worked out, but on following this feeling in the community that we see in this collection of signatures and see a scarf in the polls. The population wants a stronger and faster structure of the health system after a long time. I'm calling in for a plan on it...- conditions like that. A respectable president. Now there's a sledgehammer. Senator and current minister with this assignment on their own. I ask him to inform the council of his basic stand as the political leader of this legal class to a general public system funded from common funds, preferably without pay. I'm waiting for the highest. A minister to answer these questions clearly because this is the basis for all policies and all visions of possible changes and a vision of the pursuit of money in the community, on the interior parts of society, and including the health system. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will he maintain a public health system in behalf of the whole, or will he lean on the other side and show special sympathy for those who intend to profit from the sick?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u27	Madam President. Now it's time to speak fast. First, as a response to quoted comments from January 25, 2016, on a plan for which to go. A few months later, there was a five - year financial program, and on the basis of its 10% increase to the medical system in the 2017 budget. Work in the five-year financial programme of this government is in progress and should answer many of the questions presented here, there will be policies that will be consistent with the focus of the health issues presented in the Treaty. In terms of the clear answers given from the one referred to here on health care, the clear view of the Law covenant and the one used here has said many times, that I don't have much in mind or would like to make major changes in the health system except to strengthen and support it. Today, there are up to 30% of the public funds that go to health care in any way at the hands of autodiversaries, independent experts - or what? I don't have any particular plans to make big changes there. I agree with the guys who talk about prevention. It is important that we look at health issues not only from the way we deal with sickness and tragedy but also from how we live healthy lives. Here I have a lot of points that I know I can't go over, but I once again refer to the Constitution of the Convention on Health Care, to build up independently of my estate, regardless of my financial situation. [[The president calls.]] When it comes to using alcohol, sugar, alcohol, etc, I support public health goals, but I'm not sure that there's only one state's solution on every subject. [[The president calls.]] But we need to consider further discussions later. [[Take it up: Write an article. ...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u28	A respectable president. At the council before, there was no reason. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has come to me because I accused the prime minister of lying in the Generals' symposium. I need to correct this misunderstanding. Senator. I suppose people are telling the truth in this public talk, and if I thought Prime Minister had lied in a public talk, I wouldn't be giving a talk in the past about the President's conference, but I would have been mistrusting. No, I say the prime minister deliberately lied to RUS and lied in his excuse when that lie was revealed. There is no inaccurate time line. The time line showed just what a minister knew and that the lie was on purpose. Therefore, I call the prime minister to answer for this lie in the General Hall where people are supposed to tell the truth. The minister needs to answer whether he has violated the code of ethics and whether the material for the report was a public interest. We need to ask ourselves, " What are the consequences of that lie? ' I guess I'll bet. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson corrected the misunderstanding he presented here on my case at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u29	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Egilsdóttir As well as other couriers for this proposal for understanding the opening of an emergency route in Reykjavík. Now, it can be said that the calm is a biological in the affairs of the Reykjavík International Airport in the Waterstain. I want to start by briefly going through the circumstances today. A new major organization for Reykjavík was approved in late 2013. When the main organization was advertised in the summer of 2013, it was assumed that the disaster course would be closed in 2015 and the main airport of 2016 and the 2024 East/west. So it was to close north/southway, the main runway of the airport, last year. If that had been the case, all air traffic at Reykjavík's airport would be finished by itself. The modern index of the field would have become a failure to ensure that in no way a successful flight driver could be assured at Reykjavík's airport. After 70 thousand Icelanders had made comments on the world's main organization in Reykjavík in the summer of 2013, including signing over 20 thousand votes for the Smokeports, the more part was extended to the mayor's life span of the north/southway to 2020 or about six years in an approved organization. As the situation stands today, the emergency course has been closed, it has been completed in the last summer, and then it is due to the approval of the headquarters of Reykjavík's organization only five years left of the north/southway, the main course of the course, and then shuts down east/westway 2024. Of course, this is a truly unacceptable situation that has developed in the airport affairs. I want to go through what is most involved in the emergency runway, the medical flight. According to information provided by the Land Guard and the Moustier who care for the medical flights in the country, 110 were taken to a hospital plane in 2015 and 643 patients were taken by the U.S. A.A. and M.A. There were 752 patients who were transferred on medical flights in Myhts and U.S. Maritime Flights. Of these, 110 were transported by the Quality of Life, or 14.6%, which means 85.4% were transported using Mybets, or six out of seven. According to the data obtained by yesterday's firefighters, 711 patients were transferred to Myce's plane in 672 flights. Last year, the percentage growth rate in hospital flight was 10.5% and the years preceding 15% and 14.3%, respectively. That's a lot of growth. I haven't been able to find out how many people were brought with the helicopters last year. But maybe it's time for what's most important in this discussion here, or what I wanted to do, and that's the so - called risk assessment that was revealed in 2015. Top wrote a risk-benefit report to Istavia due to the closing of the disaster course 06/24 at Reykjavíkur Airport, which was made public in the early summer of 2015. This is shown in chapter 2 of the risk assessment, paragraph three, by permission of the president: This risk assessment does not affect the national flight system, the emergency systems of public defences, medical transport, environmental factors such as weather impacts from potential buildings near the airport, or the financial aspects of aviation. In other words, it has not been taken, and really never, in the administrations, to examine the effects on the flight system, the medical flight, and the public defense flight. In this context, it is proper to assume that to date, the effects of the emergencyway's closing on the air supply in this country are not examined. I have to make comments to that, and I have done so at my only meeting as an assistant on a welfare committee, and I actually encouraged the committee to look at it and to think that the health minister would do the same. It is special that this has not been investigated by any member of the administration in accordance with the decisions made in recent years. During the past few weeks, a number of books have come from rural communities, a wide range of areas in which the area of the country is changing, although a few cases have taken priority in winter, where it was impossible to land in Reykjavík. With permission, I would like to quote the books of the town council of Sufjörður of February 15th, which included: quoted in the newsletter of the Icelandic professional pilot in February 10th. Then I quote from the town council's book, by permission of the President: ▪ Then it has been found that coverage of the track and, in part, evidence for its closure has been based on false grounds, as per the close observation of the National Security Committee of the Icelandic Professionals, THIA. The result was that the calculated usability factor for the NYC by the ICAO standard on runway 06/24 was incorrect and that it would not have been included as a rule on the runway barrier conditions. In view of winter's experience, advocates must want to shoulder responsibility and review the medical flight status. The town government of the town government of the city of Reykjavík, the Allied Parliament, and the Secretary of Transport to ensure the safety of the citizens of the country and its tourists by opening up the emergency route again, at least until another equally safe and secure route has been opened. I think it's necessary to get better involved, I might consider it better in the second part of the second talk, what is stated in the Social Safety Committee of the Icelandic Professionals Newsletter. I'm gonna start anyway and see how far I can go. With permission from the president, I quote this chapter in the newsletter published on February 10, 2017: In the city of Reykjavík, a circuit of 06/24 has had predictable consequences for winter. What happened in winter has happened four times as long as the airport closes in straight winds. In view of a medical flight, this situation is a serious situation, as many responsible people have noted. Then many rural communities have challenged the city authorities to recognize them and have reason to agree with them. The closure of the track was justified by two reports from the Eflu Lab Lab, another dealing with a practical index using ICAO standard, the other about usability time, a new and undefined term. The course was eventually closed after a court case known to be known. After a thorough investigation, TABLET concluded that the calculated useful index of the Reykjavíkengineer field according to ICAO standard without track 06/24 in case the report was incorrect. The most serious problem is that the brakes on runways were not taken into account. THOSE was given on the basis of an information law provided the e - mail communications between Ephla and Istavia. The following statements are stated in the interaction between Istavia's workers and Eflla 30 October 2014: ◯ This analysis will be used at 13 side-rate boundarys on track 01, 13, 19 and 31, and it is concluded that no restrictions should be taken into account, leading to a more conservative functioning index. To repeat this procedure, the assessment is made that the braking criteria do not need to be taken into account, resulting in a more conservative usability index. ▪ The 'Hustutu of 2015 sent a letter to a number of people, where the report of the Eftle and the scenario such as this was criticized. No response was received from the recipients of the letter. Therefore, ICAO's opinion was decided. Errii was sent as representative of the IFALPA to the international professional airline - a bar below the ICAO Secretariat. A response was given to TABLEH where THIA interpretation of Article 3.1.3 of Annex 14 was confirmed, i.e. the use of brakes and other weather conditions should be taken into account when calculating the practical index. Furthermore, ICAO under the interpretation of SARPS ideologies, was to be endeavored to achieve a more efficient level of airports as high as possible, unless geographic limitations exist. It is obvious that the authors misjudged Article 3.1.3 of Annex 14 and that the closure of the track was ultimately justified by a faulty engineering report. This is quite serious in all of this, what is presented here, and it was published in the Icelandic professional newsletter, this answer from the International Air Force. Already decisions have been made in the Icelandic administration based on this assessment report based on false grounds. Therefore, I believe the Allied Environmental and Transport Committee should take this up at a meeting and pass this process, appointing security committees and members involved in the case. At that time, the Department of Transport should be confirmed by the ICAO response received by the Safety Committee, as it is fundamental to all this matter, that the case is handled correctly, and the case is based on the right conditions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u30	Madam President. I reiterate my words from yesterday. As a member of the country, I realize how important it is to be able to transport into the capital area and to make sure that there's a medical transfer. I made it clear in yesterday's speech that although I thought it would be impossible for a pressured legal approach to do so. In fact, I felt that it was possible to make peace that led to a better conclusion, both in capital and in the country. So I'd like to ask you why. Friðbertsson Whether he agrees with what appears in the Senate arrangement that there is a possibility of applying a specific legal procedure, even if the leading consequence of closing the emergency track goes back to 1990 or at least 60 percent. to 2005 with an agreement of at least Four, if not five transport ministers, to the local authorities. I'd also like to ask him if he doesn't think it's time for him to sit down and work this case at peace, negotiate with the State on the property in Reykjavík, so that Reykjavík might allow us to postpone the airport transport for some time so that we can achieve a successful landing for the entire population.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u31	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi Mare Einarsson query. My view of organizational matters, or organizational matters, as some would like to talk about, is that it is fundamental to me that the national security interests are guided by the situation. A fundamental factor is that individual communities cannot resist the safety concerns of the individual population. Then I've talked about ▪reckingresse and the way people do in Sweden, taking the basic wood under riksintresse because of the national security concerns. We have a very good example of how people have been handling matters at one of the Stemby Airport in Stockholm, which is a very strong example and gives a good picture of how we could handle it. Sweden has some 30 of the major 100 airports under this term, riksintresse. They then have bridges, railroads, the power wood, i.e. The electrical transfer and activation, and so on, under this term. I believe and have long felt that this discussion will develop in this country. If we take our neighboring countries, people are much further involved, such as Sweden, Norway, Denmark, England, the Netherlands. Of course I want to settle down. She should have been back a long time ago. The dirty distributions and the work of the city and state, it's a good thing to take that up with you. But this may not be exactly what we have, the carriers of this proposal. It's about how there's a serious situation and how we're going to tackle it in the near future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u32	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator that at all times is to be discussed in the way the organizational authority is being carried out. I believe, however, that if individual member organisations are involved in special projects it can be very cruel to other rural communities later. Besides, my question wasn't about that. I asked in view of the length of the event, in view of the fact that the government and the last one did nothing about it, in view of the fact that the independent party has signed many times, and nothing has been done to stop it before it happened, whether it happened. A senator believes that a legal procedure is possible, and if he believes that it would be contrary to a constitution when, as I said earlier, he even had a 25 - year - old lead, at least Twelve years old.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u33	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. With regard to organizational authority, as I said before, I've spoken that we could begin this process regarding these things, that all four international airports would be subject to the administrative authority of the state, the Cheflavour airport, the way it is today, the Reykjavík airport, Egls Airport, and the Akureyri Airport. These are the four airports that hold up the international air system in the country and the flying system that really matters to us. There's no new truth in it. I've been talking about it for years, and I've been in the media. What I'm also calling attention to is that Iceland's management department has just not taken into account this case, which I pointed to earlier on the health care of the patient and other matters. Can you imagine what it's like today? We have the Land Hospital, if I recall the budget that we were now approvaling in December here, which takes over about 60 billion, the Hospital at Akureyri 8, and I remind you that the East Hospital will take 1 billion, to show you the proportions. We only have one hospital that's got this standing and half of the hospital flight we're talking about -- it was 711 or how many people had Mybean last year? - is in priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u34	- Stands against constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u35	I want to point 'em. In April of April, when judged in the province of Reykjavík, a senator receives a lecture in the district court, and a judge actually points out how it can solve this issue. If I get there, maybe I'll take it later. I see that time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u36	A respectable president. The debate here between two members of a different category, both of which come from Akureyri, very much reflects how amazing the discussion has been about this matter for a very long time. All I know is that these two fine gentlemen agree that Reykjavíkur Airport is very important to us where there is a national center and a medical flight near the Land Hospital. Akureyri, like many other towns in Iceland, has fought that Reykjavíkur Airport will not be closed or taken anywhere else until something else clearly as good is available. One of the senators. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson Einar Einarsson is representing the United States. The party is in, I think, 40% here in Reykjavík for a while, and it's been on a lot of business for a long time. Whatever group they are, the city heads do not seem to listen to its members. The same is true of what happened. paritaprevir A north of Trausti Friðbertsson from the Independence Party. Also, independents here in the city have not listened to the viewpoint of the city council members and members of the lndependence Department around the country, calling for the town's airport to remain at the center, but do not hesitate to go ahead and say that they want to close the area of Reykjavík. Our candidates and I feel that the discussion is amazingly peculiar, that we are dealing with an internal center, an international flight, Iceland's medical flight, the whole country, as some character between the city council in the capital and everyone else. It's just a matter that goes on, year after year, even though there are subversive organizations. paritaprevir Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson is vice president of, if my memory is correct, the Heart of the Watermur, with 70,000,800,000 members. The polls quickly show that more of the country's population and its citizens want an international center to be in Reykjavík an airport until something else is clearly as good or as better. Yet this case continues. Yet, people close an emergency course despite the wrong conditions for Eflu, Istavia, or those who made their decision and eventually the government in Iceland. Nobody grabs the brakes and says, "What is this shit? Are we really going to continue this boy in a conference hall or between the people, from part of the city, from the rest of the city to the rest of the country, for the key safety of getting patients into the hospital as fast as possible? Here is the same city as the same mayor's plan to have an eight - minute assault by the ambulance and firefighters on every corner of the city and to build their centers on it. Those of us who live in the country are willing to accept 30 to 40 minutes. Flights often double that time, because there's only one plane in Akureyri that sometimes has to fly another and then come here. But here it is talking about shutting down the track so you can't land. Is the matter really still a matter of organization or about the right to make laws? Is it really so that the mayor's greater part in Reykjavík is just going to continue the matter as if nothing had happened and nothing ever happened? Is the government and the Council just going to watch it happen? We can't. That is why this council proposal is submitted. It is a challenge to the secretary of transportation and to the government to act, no matter what the situation may be. If you're right about what you're doing. Einarsson It's possible that the city of Reykjavík might be at peace with him after all, perhaps after having dealings with him in the large part of Reykjavík, there's a possibility of reconciliation. I haven't been able to tell you that conversation happened. It reminds me that last summer there was an officer. The local minister wrote a letter to the city asking for a conversation. I have not heard of the news because that conversation became a reality. However, I have seen a press report that the city is ready for a conversation with an American company, Airbnb, to set rules for them on how to behave in the city. In fact, many cities have made rules without speaking to this American company, but the city is not ready for the State's minimum security requirement that it be possible to fly to the Land Hospital as short as possible. That's all there is to it. There have been reports of how the Whales have been tested. Did they look at the rivers of volcano, possible eruptions of rain, lava, across that fine spot? Did they find that it is the main source or storage supply of the water supply for Smokejanes, Southnes? Are we not going to walk through public water and quality water as closely as we walk through the wells and other things? Is it less important that we just get the airport out of Reykjavík as soon as possible? Would it not, then, have to make other decisions to get the hospital out of Reykjavík and take 203/430 years to do this or 40 and then plan it out of a sense? How can it be possible that we are scraping this month from month to month, year after year, in this room with ourselves? I believe that the proposal made by us candidates, led by our council leader, Egilsdóttir Eelsdóttir, is that it should flow through here. I think it's the highest. A travel minister should make his decision. I know there's a lot more going on here than just the eight of us who are on the council arrangement. I have heard that from the conversation in the hall and from the previous discussion on the subject. In other words, we feel that there will be some way to open it right away before going into something else. There's no future solution yet. It's essential that this is a security issue. And that's what many have said, and why. paritaprevir In his case, Trausti Friðbertsson made this very clear, that the International Air Force has identified the assumption that the assumptions are wrong. Is that not enough to be resumed? I'd like to say to the members of the council that have ties into the groups that are in the greater part of Reykjavík, I'd like to say: I'd like you to talk to your colleagues. It cannot be concluded that you have to make decisions that seem to violate the interests of the people of the land, including the city. Madam President. A fundamental factor is that the premise and disposal of air security risk are correct when people make such dramatic decisions that they close individual runways or remove airports.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u37	Madam President. I haven't received any instructions from anyone or anyone. This conversation or what he calls it --what. paritaprevir And Trausti Friðbertsson knows that for years I've been talking about the fact that this case will only be resolved, not by violence on the part of one person. As a matter of fact, I think we're running out of time, and then I declare responsibility for those who have been the most narrow - minded and unwilling to negotiate. It speaks of carp and nobody is afraid to tap the brakes. Why did it take so long? When he was prime minister, did not a senator use the brakes? Why did he not exercise himself in the last government before the law fell? Hv. The convention party spoke of extensions of hospital flights and an increase of 12 feet [12.5 m] in flight if a Washing Lander was to be taken by the airport. That's right. But didn't the platoon suggest that the hospital be moved there for the last election? Would this not have come down to the same place? The city has also served as the media. The advance team has also come to decisions and suggested a number of things on this route, so I dismiss the fact that this is a group of political issues. I simply think it's more important for us to make peace. I reiterate that I think with a successful solution we can gain a benefit for all the people of the country, but not by applying the law or trying to pervert the judgment of the Supreme Court that has already fallen, as unfortunate as it may have been.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u38	A respectable president. I apologize to the senator if I lost it that there was some order. I was talking about a conversation. The reason I started my talk on this was that I felt quite obvious that the conversation that the fine council members had had recently had with them at the council would have moved a little bit into the Assembly Hall. It is true that in the 100 - year - old history, there have been several developments, but for a long time, the forward squad, all its members, all its members, all local council members, local council members, local representatives, wherever they are or wherever they are, has agreed that the city's airport is where he is located as the center of national flight. On the other hand, if a new decision is made to bring it to someone else, this must be done in a wise way, not just to close a section and force it away. What Is Violence? Where is the violence involved? [[For example, consider this: It can be on both sides.]] You see, it can lie on both sides. I agree with what. A senator's success is in finding a common solution. Other nations have done so. I remind myself of it. paritaprevir The remains of Trausti Friðbertsson pointed out what Sweden has done and many other nations have done. In the past few years, we graduates have talked about whether it would be unwise for very important things to be simply under the administration of the State in some way, at least in such a conversation with the local community, to have that conversation and to be prepared for it, both parties. I agree with what. A senator, of course, would be most successful if he could come up with a solution. But for God's sake, let's not let security get in the way of politics, or the wrong way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u39	Madam President. This isn't necessarily just getting in the way of politicians. I'm pointing out that the case is beginning to get in the way of the Supreme Court speaking. Hv. A senator says we just got here. The councilmen, the council members, and the discussion have moved here. It might have been better, then, if we had come into the council a few years ago. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson would have been in the countryside for a few years, so maybe the case would be running around. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson was in the last government. I could not see that he was in a visible way, at least not formally, using himself to solve this matter in a specific way, in no way other than the agreement made on October 25, 2013. This interpretation proposal is contrary to that. That's what I'm talking about. Why can't we resolve to start talking like people, working together, working with rural governments in the country, the countryside in the capital area? We all agree that this matter needs to be resolved. But I don't think this is the right way. Finally, one brief question. Based on the desire to lead and the determination that many transport ministers and many governments have declared to close the emergency course 25 years into the past, they have been able to close it. A senator, that it would work, that there would be an act of attention to opposing the court of the Supreme Court? I doubt it. I want security for the whole country. I want security with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u40	A respectable president. I don't know if things have gone much better with it. Councilmen. But to inform them. The senator has been in the countryside for 15 years. [[A few more years?]] The point is: I, of course, was used by the prime minister for certain actions, including those, of course. was written a letter from the local secretary to the city of Reykjavík, asking for a conversation, which, of course, has not occurred in my time. But I have not been the Minister of the Interior, nor have I been prime minister at any other time. I can't talk about it. In this council decree, in its last sentence, it is said, with the permission of a president: To this end, it is suggested that a minister act on the case, whether by a specific legal application in the city of Reykjavík or in any other way, in the same way or in a way - or in any other way - ◯ and that the General Report on the opening of an emergency track will no later be considered in May 2017. [[Up front.]] The purpose of this synonym is to declare Generalis's will that they listen to security and that something will be done. [[Up front.]] In what way? Once the minister has determined what to do, let us consider this matter. However, it is suggested that the minister do something that will come to an end by opening the runway, the highway, again.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u41	You're opening up the law on...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u42	Madam President. I had a conversation with Auðar Svansson, our city representative Pirata, perhaps two years ago - that was about the time that Hödddur Þórhallsson, the then senator, was making a suggestion about the national airport and the government's authority to intervene in this regard - just to know his position on the matter. I've had a personal conversation with him then, and I've had a conversation with him at Pirata's meetings. I don't know exactly what the situation is today, but if she's changed something, I'd like to know it from Halldór, and as the senator mentioned in his case earlier, we have a conversation with our people in the city, which is probably. The situation is very simple, and I have often said it here in a speech chair regarding the national airport, the way things are happening to the entire population. As a result, decisions made involve not only the use of smoke but also all the people of the country. Because all the people of the country are paying in common funds to build up all kinds of wood in the capital area, which the people have every right to have access to. If, somehow, the bioavailability of the people of the country is to be limited to this service here on the southwest corner, it is necessary for the people to arrive at that decision. Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator who knows: He mentioned that something had been tried to have this conversation, what has been the nature of the conversation. A senator made? What have other performers of the matter, if he knows it and perhaps the first transporter, done to have this conversation? Because it is important that this conversation take place so that the matter can be reconciled which I think must be what the senator wants. What has he done, and what does he know about the conversations that have taken place regarding the future of his company in Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. The contrastant senator agrees that this is a very important matter. Although we sometimes discuss the planning of a rural society, and when it comes to such matters as the center of an international flight, I agree. A senator that is not private to the local community, as is the fact that the international airport in the Sandmaker's company is a private government of Sandmaker. I think everyone sees the obvious in it. After all, that airport is under the authority of the State in organizational matters. As I came into it, it was in summer when the person standing here in government and taking the lead in her that we, the Minister of State, used us to write letters, formal letters, of course, were also communicating, to the city of Reykjavík, and asked for talks. I don't know. There may be an election and a delay in becoming a government. I don't know it. Of course, I have not received any answers from the city of Reykjavík about it. When we put it here at that time, we simply say, "We can't live with this anymore. " Something has to be done. If this is an incentive for the council, by accepting a synonym such as this, to encourage the minister to do something to ensure that the emergency course is open until someone else and a larger decision is made to move the field or to the hospital or what it is now, it will ensure that safety matters are always put first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u44	Madam President. Yeah. Of course, this is a key safety issue. We have our national hospital on the southwest corner. We have it right here in Reykjavík. Of course, there is a need to ensure safety of transport, that other inhabitants of the country, which are therefore relatively far away, can obtain very quickly the necessary medical care and, in some cases, vital. I know why. A member of the council what conversation has taken place in the processing of this matter? If, as a minister, he goes and starts the job, and then the board accepts the pressure to press this conversation in a way that's impossible, you can often have a conversation even if it's not harmful, often you can try to have such a meeting just to start the conversation - something like that has happened? I'm sure this case has a lot of friends I'm not in. It's not until the conversation takes place that they often get another view or vision, another perspective on the subject. More often than not, if there is a desire and interest, a better solution than the two parties at the outset could provide. What else has been done, if anything? What will be done after this meeting, following the intervention of this committee? Is it, then, the commission to have this conversation? Or will the senators go on by themselves and try to pressure you to have this conversation? How has the conversation been developing informally, if it is? And how will the conversation progress?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u45	The president would like to remind a senator that the language is Icelandic here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u46	I meant it, a little bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u47	Not all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u48	A respectable president. Of course, I have not had a conversation with the city of Reykjavík, no matter what individual members of Congress have done. However, it is true that two city officials of the applicant's office are in Reykjavík, advanceers, and airport friends, and we have, of course, agreed on the importance of the city's airport and the emergency runway being open. As a result, the work we have done has been this way to further the progress of the case, pushing it. It is normal, however, when we take this matter into the council and make it a special matter, that, when this discussion is completed, it will be requested to the committee, where we can get these formal conversations. But I agree with the senator that all conversations are good, including the informal. They can help. This case, however, has been in holes for a long time. To get them out of their holes, you need something new. Perhaps we can help each of us get it out of that hole by the council, the council, and the city agents. That's the call I had for it. Congress members who are part of the more part of the city's city of Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u49	V.E.G. President. I'm going to allow me to start by reading here the decision made by the Future Party from the final platoon, which was precisely determined on airport issues. It says, with permission of the highest power. President: The category of initiatives violates the authorised tasks and severely reduces the use options of the Reykjavík airport with respect to flight safety. The airport in Reykjavík is an indistinguishable center of domestic and medical flights. For national, public, and security reasons, the advance party will focus on the fact that the airport will remain in the Hydromosis. It is an important cornerstone of national transportation and must continue to serve all the people of the land. The advance team supports Reykjavík's airport in the current picture, with three runways, and will continue to support the emergency runway 06/24. A respectable president. Here we will discuss a proposal to smell the emergency course opening in Reykjavík, but the objective of the proposal is, as we have discussed in speeches. Councilmen, by the council, conclude to hide the highest order. The secretary of transportation and rural management to work for the opening of the Reykjavík airfield northeast/southwestern runway as soon as possible. The secretary will have a plan in place and will inform the General of its contents at no later than May 2017. As noted in the talks, this is the suggestion by the General Assembly of the Agency, which is the chairman of our district attorney, why. paritaprevir Egilsdóttir, who is the 1st traveller of the proposal. An essay with the proposal says that the article ... thatbyconsistenciesthisis the very best. The transport and local government minister committed the use of a daily runway called the Emergency Course, which was closed following the Supreme Court of June 9, 2016, in the Icelandic case against Reykjavíkurburg. That was a case of No. 268/2016. I have to say in my speech, which will not be long, that with the advance, we're going to. Councilmen, all they believe is the highest. Minister Jón Gunnarsson responded in a rapid and positive way and accept the material of this proposal, especially because of the words he made within minutes of his reinstatement. Secretary of transportation. You saw people and loyal friends in the emergency course rejoice greatly in the best words. Transporter on emergency runway and Reykjavík Airfield. On January 11, 2017, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. The need for a transport minister to create some certainty about the future of the national environment centres during the election season and that the area of the city of Reykjavík is one of the areas of transport in an unacceptable position. Of course, this vague future for the city of Reykjavík would not be able to continue. He also said that he had previously said this in a talk and a publication that would have to be set aside for the future how we plan these matters. The same report said the highest. Minister, with permission of presidents: There is no other solution. Of course, it is interesting to consider all the future adjustments about something else, something that is so short - lived that it will take years for me to arrive at the conclusion. Meanwhile, we cannot live with some uncertainty about Reykjavík's airport. As I said earlier, there was great rejoicing, including. on Facebook pages of various users, following this report on the words at the highest rate. Secretary of transportation. There are a lot of people who want the airport to go on and in particular the population of the country that needs on the emergency runway and the airport because they have to. to attend the services of hospitals here, as well as public service if we talk about it, and at the same time know that there is always some part of the people who live in the community of those who need to serve an orderly plane. A respectable president. I agree with the highest. Minister and highly welcome these words, for it is distressing to the inhabitants of the country who need the services of the airport, who need a medical flight to see that the emergency runway is closed. As shown in a paper with the synonym that we address here, this is in the middle of the southwest emergency route, e.g. The only runway in the southwestern corner of the country where medical machines can land. The proposal also stated that the management of Iceland's Air Administration and air experts challenged the authorities for safety reasons. Although only a few months have passed since the end of the emergency train, there have already been a few cases where a medical flight in Reykjavík has not been possible. It is enough to mention an incident that took place late in 2016 when a medical machine with a patient from the Cape Hornfjord was unable to land in Reykjavík due to the roughness of the southwest and had to fly the patient to Akureyri. The call was first priority, in which case immediate immediate reactions are required. This is shocking, and patients from many parts of the country should not be in this position. We see it now, and we know and hear all who want to hear and listen to the fact that over the years, decades, health care has changed. There may be less need for special hospital services in many parts of the country than it was years ago, and some emergency services need to be applied to the capital area. The airport and the emergency route have often been useful, indeed, and even many people owe their lives because they could land on an emergency route. This case, the medical flight, is one case that we candidates recommend to be considered in accordance with our priorities, i.e. A health plan, so let's have a heart for it. Friðbertsson It was quite strange, I can't remember exactly how he put it, to the dog. A welfare committee would not have discussed the hospital flight at a meeting of the Committee. That's what he said. I agree with that. I was sitting in a meeting with a guy. The welfare committee, when he said this, a few weeks ago or a few years ago. I'm going to be head of state at night. The welfare committee follows these words. Friðbertsson This will be discussed together and particularly in the context of health and health care, since medical services are part of a key service in our country. It is very important that we join forces, and this proposal is made available to committees and committees and to the highest level. A secretary of transportation will take it into account. As I said above, I don't believe anything but that after the words he dropped about five minutes after he accepted...
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u50	The president would like to remind a speaker to address the members of the council properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u51	When I'm at the highest. Last January, Jón Gunnarsson's secretary of transportation began his office. Excuse me, Chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Eagledotir for the speech. I think we can agree fully on the importance of ensuring the safety and access of all the people of the country to health care. I made it clear in a talk the other day about social security that we live in a state of justice and need to live according to certain principles of it. The Supreme Court has, from what I hear, judged on the matter of agreeing on the closure of an emergency runway. So I have serious doubts that this particular way is legally qualified to violate the agreement that the Supreme Court has decreed. I would like to do this in a positive way and try to make sure that there is some means for health care. For example, a 2013 National Reconnaissance Report stated that cooperation with the National Guard to take over a medical flight could well be considered an option for the future in ensuring this access. We may disagree about that, but I don't necessarily think that an airport in the capital area needs to be in the Hydromur for the future, for example. You've been in the Whale test, but certainly you have to secure access while the airport is in Watermur. Would be a what? A senator prepared to consider the change in the proposal to the general case, that a minister would be assigned to ensure the safety and access of the citizens of the country and the population of the country that health services without specifically a means of having to take place through an emergency route at Reykjavík's airport?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much for the answer, my dear. paritaprevir Viktor Orri Valgarðsson. Hv. A senator's gonna ask him out at the U.S. Railroad. I've read of somewhere where the U.S. Air Force Aerospace is not the same as today's medical planes. I don't know for sure. The suggestion, however, is to open up an emergency route. It's about that we're in need now. We don't have access to a patient emergency track. We have faced difficult situations with severely ill patients struggling for their lives. It's just very urgent, and that's a council party opinion. Prosecutors, that we must respond quickly now. Therefore, it is imperative that our suggestion be made in such a situation. A committee to the point of need. We do not have sure access to health care now as we had a few months ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u54	A respectable president. I'm not going anywhere, more than what. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, putting me up with a special expertise in the health care of a patient. This report certainly requires construction and further funding for the National Guard if it is to be done in an adequate way. In a recent report, the Ministry is encouraged to have discussions with the National Guard and to consider this option further. I assume that if we are ever going to open the runway again, each one will take care of it. Without knowing the exact timeline in that subject, I'm sure it will take some time, too. Because it sounds like something that's not legal, I wonder if we should rather encourage a minister to look for ways to do this and then so. to conduct a discussion with the National Guard to ensure the availability of all the people of the country into health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u55	V.E.G. President. As I told you last year, there's trouble in the country. Emergency planes can't land in Reykjavík because of shutting down - or at least not on the emergency runway where it's been closed. It's very important, and I really hope that there's a way of getting along. Councilmen to ensure the safety of patients in many parts of the country and for man's efforts to re-open the emergency track. These are the security of patients from various parts of the country. People even live in poor health care, and they have to get too much service to the capital. It is urgent to act in a hurry, for in our Congress resolution, it says that no later than May 2017 must be a minister who has responded. It cannot be longer than that. Of course, you hope to the highest. A secretary of transportation will accept the content of the Parliamentary decree that we will discuss here as soon as possible and take the lead in the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u56	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much. But it is natural that when nearly all of the country's power institutions, local government officials, legislators, ministers, agencies, the increased safety of the inhabitants is being thrown out of the table as part of the safety of the patients in the country who need to go to the hospital's capital with such inconsistency or rather inconsistency of the capital. As long as the airport is here, which I don't think should now be holding. In recent years, this has been a big case. So I use wording like what? paritaprevir Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson uses many times: When you open the pandorbox, there's a lot to show. I like what you're doing. The senators of the Company have a high regard for the Supreme Court. Secretary of transportation, Jón Gunnarsson, still, forever, that he solves this matter just one, two and three. I think that in our cooperation during the last term, we should have done better in this case. I think we're totally set. [[Take it up: I agree.]] We have to face the fact that we were here during the last season, we should have done better. And, of course, many. I'm impressed that the same time we're convening into a variety of health - care services in the country is already weakening the patient's flight. I think somehow the city council agents and the press on these matters in the capital must meet us in the earnest and natural desire of the inhabitants of the country; this is the key to the security of the people. The security concerns of the inhabitants of the country are being violated in this matter. I'm saying we need to figure it out as soon as possible. Some of them what? I don't think any man is going there, I just don't believe it. I think we need to increase the safety of the Reykjavík airport in close proximity to the university hospital where the service is most secure and best. We are led to believe that, parents in the country are led to believe that there are no children in the city of Reykjavík, at the National Hospital. But most of them go. So it takes us to have the security of bringing people here on almost every scale. The northeastern/southwestern circuit in Reykjavík does not often close, but its safety is that it will never close while flying. It has been suggested that a comparable path might be opened at the Cheflavík Airport, northeast/southwest. That in itself is not costly. But the patient is being transferred to another location. Then I wondered: " Why don't you need an emergency facility at the Southnesian National Institute of Health? Of course, the people of Southnes would welcome it, but we are talking about safety in a medical flight in Reykjavík. Here's the center of the national flight. It is important that we meet together for the end of this matter as soon as possible. I challenge the city authorities to sit at the table with content in mind and that we finish the case and improve the safety of the patients and the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u57	A respectable president. I come up mostly here because of the words I've heard fall in this discussion about violence and something like that. It's mostly, I've heard, was president of the United States, which has used those words. It is forgotten in this that the violence used in this case is, of course, at the hands of the city where the mayor's share under the Community has been very strict in this matter, in effect ignoring the wishes that have been shown to be slowed down, that would not be a reason to go so fast. There's been so much emphasis on selling the land that's on the track that it hasn't been able to stay. Violence in this case is not on the side of the Generals or members of Congress, that is on the part of the city. The city has totally ignored what has been reported in surveys, including that everyone who owns this airport together wants it to be kept in place so that it can be used. Of course, all of us fight that he is still there while men continue this folly, to build and build the hospital where he is today, in the midst of the city, in the Tinghols, when it was closer to being built elsewhere. And if they are to build it elsewhere, of course, they need to find out if the airport is to stay where it is, building a transport system from the airport to a new hospital. On the other hand, if they agreed to move the airport to Wash, there would also be a need to calculate the time from there. Clearly, there are many things that are not studied in this regard. The director of the Conspiracy spoke earlier about reconciliation, and of course, a long time ago the work had been taken to try to settle on whether the airport should be where it should be or should have been, to make peace with it. Do not talk about some sort of peace now when we are trying to prevent further exposure to the serious situation in today's medical flight. This is very irresponsible of the city's way of handling it, and I am holding to it when the city, or mayor's part, fail to shoulder the responsibility it has as the capital of all the people of the country. It has been shown that there is scientific evidence, a security reason that this course remains open. They've been ignored up to this point. Hence, it is the responsibility of those who do such things in an attempt to endanger lives. I'm simply going to allow myself to say so. I think that's exactly the way it is. At the beginning of his career as a minister of such a career, the secretary of travel spoke very clearly about the area of Reykjavík. I hope the Minister didn't back up, hope the Minister is the man to be able to deliver the big words he dropped them. However, it would be very interesting if the minister could come into this discussion or express himself somewhere about the situation on his part precisely. That would be most desirable. I come here primarily to stress that this suggestion is presented because responding is vital. It is not presented in some folly or to delay a case or something like that. It's stated because humans are really worried about this. Not only those who make the suggestion but also those who have here from other categories spoken in this discussion and, of course, those who care for these assignments and who have repeatedly pointed out the need to open the way. The proposal will include the article referred to the management of Iceland's Air Administration Society and specialists in air traffic that have challenged the authorities to keep the track open. Madam President. I think it is very important for the proposal to get good, but at the same time, it is a fairly rapid treatment by the Commission, the prospective Environment and Transport Committee, where it is important to proceed with the procedure so that a minister can get this best from the council to continue working on the case. I still have full confidence that the minister will follow the words he fell after he took office. Of course, it is our senators to observe that such a thing happens. Madam President. I'm not gonna have this any further. I think it's important, though, that these words are recorded in the conference, and it's heard here from the platform that this is the main responsibility of the city, that she's the one who hasn't wanted to consult on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u58	The President would still like to remind members of the council to use proper pleas and address the members of Congress and Ministers with honor and honor.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u59	V.E.G. President. I'm here in my second speech on this important matter, but it's time for the emergency course to be reassigned. This is important, since medical flight is part of our out - of - hospital service in Iceland. As mentioned in my first speech, we're going to take the laymen. Councilmen of the Agency, the medical flight into the medical programme, and they want access to it, and their status will be reviewed in the preparation of a health plan for Iceland. At the same time, we've taken a very serious word. paritaprevir The key to examining the patient's patient flight is that of the Njáll of Friðbertsson. The World Health Committee, which will apply in connection with the health programs that we give priority to our activities on this council winter. I'm coming up here in my second speech because I'm going to read a fist as one of our city leaders wrote during the days on this matter, about the importance of the opening of the emergency track. There, the city council Guðfinna writes with permission from President Jóhanna Guðmundsdóttir: The Isolates Association concluded from June 1, 2015 on the Risk Assessment Report of Istavia due to planned closure of runway 06/24. so that the risk assessment does not affect the whole airport system in the country, the P.R. emergency system, or the impact on emergency transport. It will not achieve financial impact on air traffic. If a decision to close the runway is made, a special risk assessment must be made. Specially stated by the Agency that it does not disappear or take its stand on the topic report on usability time, but more of the mayor's magazine has repeatedly referred to this report in support of its deduction. However, a walking agency believed that the Interestion Report on a usability index, while the Istavia assessment is based on this report, it showed that the useful index does not exceed 95%. Making serious comments on the safety committee of Icelandic professional fliers and has miscalculated the practical factor in the report. In his stistle, the city council chairman also writes the comments of the Social Security Committee for Professionals: Then, on September 9, 2015, to the State Department of State Department, the U.S.A. Department of Safety Committee made an observation that in the case of a usability index report, there is no reference to the International Environment Agency's guidelines, which contains an explanation of important safety issues that would not be considered that would result in serious failures for the report. The letter shows that the Safety Committee considers the report unusable and unacceptable to the Istavia assessment report to be based on it in making a decision on the modified Reykjavík airport setting. This letter includes some of the following: Pointed to take into account the inhibition of runways, slides, cloud height, winds, track width, and size of aircraft for which airports are assigned. Since these factors are not included, calculation of the usability index is wrong. Then the Safety Committee will comment that the risk assessment report does not take into account the patient's flight. In order to make serious comments on the progress of the problem, the security committee points out that there is a fundamental requirement for the implementation of air security practices in a legitimate and unconvinced way. A copy of the letter of the Safety Committee was sent to the Association, Istavia and the International Transport Committee (EEC). As mentioned in my earlier talk, it is very important that this matter be done quickly and effectively and that it be made firm. A senator with high hopes. A secretary of transportation takes the matter firmly because of the words that fell to him during the news transfer just minutes after he accepted the highest post. A secretary of transportation in January.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u60	A respectable president. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, one question. As noted in the talks of these last two senators and in a quoted article in the Guðfinna Guðmundsdóttir, has the attitude of the enterprise always been so clear? Could it be that a representative of the Organizational Committee for Organizational Committee from 2006 to2010 may now play a major role in the situation that has now come up today? It turns out that the advance party has a completely clean shield on this matter, but it is not, he has the past on it. I think it's time to think about it, and everyone says yes their sins on that subject. I have to admit, though, that sometimes when I drive by, I feel that this fight is lost. On the other hand, there is another highway. I don't want to call this an emergency highway, I want to call it a highway. It's a course that hasn't been maintained for years at Keflavík, and it's unusable. I think it's much closer to getting that path into progress. They may need to be fought. I may pick up that fight later, but don't link it to this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u61	V.E.G. President. I just want to start by saying what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason said that I had not joined the advance party in 2006 or 2010. I don't know what went on in the mayor at the time. So, I'm just gonna let myself say right here, straight out, Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason speaks of a course in Keflavík, a course far too far from the hospital service that provides emergency services and is therefore not discussed in this regard. This is an emergency. As with the situation today, patients from the region cannot safely get through a medical flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u62	A respectable president. I'm going to have this second answer in very short terms, saying very simply that life did not begin when certain members of Congress joined the forward party. The advance party has a bit of a past, and it does not mean to excuse themselves by saying that something has happened before they joined the party. I'll tell you what I'll say sometime. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir how this happened, and the advance party has a bit of a dark past in these cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u63	V.E.G. President. Yes, I hope that the advance company will have a story before I joined the company, for I am not 100 years old, like the forward party. But I just want to thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason for the answers. We'll probably just sit down and talk about it, but this is the attitude of the House of forwarders, that the emergency track will be re-assigned. We will continue to use ourselves in that matter in the conniving treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u64	Mr. President. I'd like to pick up the thread from the previous speech and quote the newsletter of the Icelandic professional airline and from the head of the National Security Committee of the Icelandic Professionals, Ingvar Tryggvason, by permission of the President. It is from the conclusion of this chapter that is involved in the affairs of the Reykjavík International Airport that I quote. It states: ▪ As told by the Agency today, we have a record of 1.6. Regarding the planned closure of runway 06/24 at Reykjavík Airfield, the Agency reminds us to make a special assessment of the procedure of the change, in order to decide to close runway 06/24. This risk assessment is not known. People who are concerned about flying security and public interests must be able to face the fact that the end of the track is being done with more zeal than ahead of them. I want to reiterate what was presented in my case earlier, and I think it is important for the Department of Transport to review what is now passed by the Social Security Committee of the Icelandic Professionals, in their newsletter that I quoted at the previous speech, and also that the matter is taken up by the Allied Environmental and Transport Transport Committee, and discussed and passed through it, which could probably be related to this body of Congress proposal when it is introduced. Then I'm considering the history of the case, how this risk assessment has affected the entire issue of the administration. If this is true, which will appear at the Security Committee on an answer from the International Air Action Agency, I believe this discussion will take place at these two levels, i.e. on Environment and Transport Committee and the Department of Transport. Again, in this matter, I reiterate that the safety interests of the public will be guided. That's key. And that there is trust in Icelandic government. Also, as I mentioned earlier, I'd like to call attention to closing the north/southway, the main track of the airport, estimated in 2022, in five years. It is natural to discuss this matter immediately in a larger context, how you intend to handle it. Actually, it was my opinion when a person discussed the location of the National Hospital for the Future and the airport that this should be the same. It's always been my opinion, so it's being maintained. Regarding what has been discussed in this hospital discussion, I would like to point out the type of vertebral area in the country's emergency service, pointing to its size and ability to care for the most serious situations that arise. The land hospital is estimated to be 60 billion, the hospital at Akureyri is 8 billion, and so there is less of one organization in the East, the hospital there, 1 billion. This sums up how humans can cope. Half of all the medical flights, the 711 who were transported by Myys, except for the 100 to 1,100,150 who were taken with the helicopters of the Gestun, are priorityes of people, persons who are in a life - style or life - threatening situation. As it happens, half of all these people who bring a medical flight to the Land hospital come from the Northeast standard. There is an amazing number of people from the East where ten thousand people live. In 2015, there were 150 medical flights. If you invent it and examine the entire human age and the size of the population on such a medical flight, you will see how huge a security point that is for these people. Then, right at the end, I want to point out again what happens in the state court last year, by permission of the President, in court documents there, in the court order of the judge: Then it should be noted that in the treatment of power in the affairs of the Reykjavík International Airport, the Minister of Ministers is responsible for the Council under general rules. In the power of its general authority, the General Parliament, if this is to be a switch, can also instruct a minister on the implementation of the products of the Reykjavík airport as well as a special law on the issues of the field, including the size and scope of the airport, depending on the incidents in order to determine the authority to obtain possession due to the regulations of the 72th chapter. The constitution, Sbr. 10th par. track No. 97/1995, and the priority of the law for any unit administration programme under Regulation No. 123/2010 [[The president calls.]] You see, this is quite remarkable and has not been so much of a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u65	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis of electronic publication of compromises and the data of counsellors. The movers, along with the one listed here, are aggressors. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, V. S., Brjánsson, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Bjöl Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Einar Brynjólfsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Viktor Orri Valgarðsson. The interpretation proposal reads: ▪ The General concluded to assign prime minister the necessary measures so that electronic access can be made to the public in accordance with 2 mgr. 13th par. Enlightenment. The secretary has set up a directive to determine how this information should be published and how loyalty should be ensured in the appropriate setting and equipment to provide access to the information. Mr. President. For 13. ......... 140/2012, we will consider the release of information at the hands of the government. Two. it is stated that governments should work hard to make files of a case, a list of language data, and the data themselves are equally available in an electronic way. Transporters suggest that the prime minister be assigned to take measures to be able to publish electronic files on issues available for the management of the recruitment problems, such as the web. There is a long tradition for registration of problems with the council, and there is a firm procedure to maintain the registration and saving of the journals. It seems proper that the Council of State will follow with a fine example and publish its case files on the website, while the institutions and administrations of the state and rural society follow. It is then important that candidates be made available to buy or obtain software to publish the data on the web in a user-friendly manner. It is assumed that the Minister will implement a Regulation for the publication of the above data, as per Article 4. 13th par. Enlightenment. The Regulation needs to include to show how information should be published from the Council's Constitutions, when to publish, what information should be published, and what information should not be published, such as due to opinions about the personal protection and security of the state. Last row, 4 mg. 13th par. it is specifically stated that regulations set out in accordance with the regulations of the Member States and their organisations. While Norway can be considered as an example of the publication of the journals on the Web site, since 2010, the Norwegian State has published legal files from another hundred states on the Web site: The URL is: www.oep.no. Since its introduction, the Norwegian government has published information on approximately 20 million documents that have originated or received their release. Instructions on the publication of the case logs and related information in Norway include: To be included in the Regulation on the official archives and in the Regulation on the basis of the Norwegian Information Act. There are strict rules on the publication of information from the official Norwegian Constitution that are involved in securing personal protection and that sensitive information is not published. The importance of information on the affairs and actions of the governments is clear. In addition to its support and confidence in the implementation of public projects, additional information has been provided. I suggest that once this discussion is over, the case will be considered to the administration and monitoring committee. Mr. President. I'm afraid that this case is at its height. The prime minister decided to publish important information, two important reports with information that served as a public service. He decided not to put them before the election. They were ready, but he decided to delay their release until after the election and after a political discussion. We in the United States sat down to think of how on earth could be prevented from becoming the highest. Ministers decide on their own, whenever public welfare information becomes available, and somehow they act with the attitude: I own this, I'm allowed. How can we, the legislature authority that has specific obligations and supervision to the European Commission, set some rules for them to follow? Then I got a tip on how this is done in Norway. That's why this case is here. I sure hope they get a shot at it. But even if it was the motivation, the case has been accomplished, unequivocal benefits for information, for administration and its transparency, and clearly for our benefit. General senators, but also for the general population of the country. I hope the case gets a good job and a clear access. The board of directors and surveillance committees are back in the hall for payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u66	Hv. President. I'd like to begin by celebrating that this synopsis proposal has been proposed. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. I think it's a very good thing. I think we're supposed to aim to have the administration and data and treatments as open as possible. I think this may be a very good part of it. I think it's a matter of individual interest and a wide range of stakeholders, that they can have easy access to track events, and after what has happened, the documents that concern them. I notice in my report, and I don't have to say that the laws and rules that involve personal protection and such have to be taken into consideration, of course. I wanted to express my joy with this, but at the same time ask, "What is it? " A senator has wondered, or has any idea how well we are prepared to engage in this project, some idea of cost, and the events of a time frame that may be involved. I'd love to, if you know what I mean. A senator could come into this matter only.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u67	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I am truly glad that you have done so. A senator will take this matter seriously. At least that's not true. one vote from the top of the board, which is currently flying. Hv. A senator asks how we are prepared to do this. I think we're pretty well prepared. There's an electronic registration in the scheme. If we look further, most of our societies also have electronic administration. In most cases, time is needed to make rules about what can be published and what not and how the processes should be and the environment should be userd so that it is readily available for the public to examine and obtain information. This has not been an expensive record, but it must, of course, be done. V.E.G. The suggestion that the prime minister is assigned to do this work is made available to him. The whole thing is a government law thing. That's important. That's it. Then we can look to our uncle in Norway and learn from their experiences. I'm sure the board of directors is ready to assist us in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. I think it's very important that we look for role models. I've only looked at the Norwegian database or the portal, and without considering it much, it could be a pattern. I also think it's necessary to look at this in other places because I think it's important that it be user-friendly. I think the Norwegians, as shown in the report, have some 20 million documents inside their port. There's a lot of papers in there. Finally, and I'm not asking for any particular answer to that, I think this case, which is very important and important that the problem, benefits and issues of this kind, information systems, can be available to citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u69	A respectable president. I support this case, of course, wholeheartedly, for I am one of its carriers, and I think it is in accordance with the priorities of Pirata and others of the transparent administrations and information flows. I also believe that the case should be very good with the proclamational policy at the highest level. Secretary of the economy, Benedikt Jóhannesson's son, to open up our administrations, ensures additional transparency and to attack on that task. Let's hope this is a matter we can make it up to and to the minister of finance. I would also like to mention this in the context of what is bad. Harðardóttir This may help the public and the media to be more informed about the course and state of the affairs within the council so that it is not a matter of personal opinion or of the Ministry to determine when the public and the media have the right to be informed about matters and when they will not, whether it will be helpful or not. Because we've seen it, like a dog. A member of the council agreed that precedents have developed that ministers decide when it is appropriate to publish reports, especially if it is appropriate to do so in the leading of an election. By permission of the President, I'm going to testify to the highest degree. Prime Minister Bjarni son of Benediktsson, from February 6, 2017, in this chair, he says: Here's a question for why the National Report didn't come to the council, and I've answered it many times, that was for the election's sake... V.E.G. According to the prime minister, the report had not appeared before because of the election. The minister made the decision not to publish a report ready within the Ministry, consciously making a decision, because there was an election coming. Now it is also documented as being at the highest point. Prime Minister, that if a minister makes such a decision, it is normal as long as a minister can be disloyal during the council, that is the sole measure of confidence at the council, then there was nothing wrong with a minister. Or, like, the highest. On February 21, the prime minister said by permission of the president: Here people have come up and told us, like what they're doing. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, that they believe that there's something criminal here. And more than one member of the council has come up here and said that the minister has abused his power, he has broken the law. That one. Councilmen need, I think, only to dig deeper and study the available resources. This is where people cry out: Distrust, distrust. Those words must be followed by actions and a declaration of distrust. Which is, persistent as to whether a minister has violated the code of ethics, generally in violation of his political responsibility, the answer was highest. The prime minister that if it is thought so, they must present a form of distrust. The only option of the memory of the part or the public in order for Ministers to place some form of political responsibility for their actions is to have more part in the council for distrust. So we have documented that the views of the rulers of the authorities on the information they have as top executives, top executives of the administrations, are that they are in their own jurisdictions when the information is published and when it is not. Of course, this is part of a very unhealthy view of political responsibility, which is possibly too common, all too common, in politics. This is also something that could hopefully be replaced by such matters, that the legal records and standards of action are open to the public, and the media, regardless of political concern ministers, and whether they seem normal and appropriate to publish data before or without elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u70	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank a member of the council's resolution proposal for presenting it and expressing my firm support for it. The proposal here for the electronic publication of the journals and the data advisers rhymes very well with the basic policy of Pirata, which I intend to allow me to read a little bit from, by permission of the President. First of all, it rhymes well with Pirata's basic policy on transparency and responsibility. It says: A counterclockwise is about opening the power more closely to the control of the power memory. It is well established that with increasing access to relevant data, the general public should be significantly more able to monitor the administration and what is happening there. Similarly, the Pirates believe that transparency plays an important role in the illuminating of the public and thus qualifying for democratic decision making. Information should be available to the public. Information should be available in the most appropriate and available information formats for use. In order for a person to be responsible, he must have the ability to make decisions, but the Martyrs believe that everyone has the right to make decisions of his own matters and right to know how such decisions have been made. At last, that rhymes very well with 5th pars. Pirata's foundation policy on free information and expression at this time, by permission of President: Limited freedom to collect and share information is unacceptable except for the protection of civil rights. As you can hear it, this council error proposal rhymes extremely well with Porita's basic policy, but we believe that as much as possible, data will lead to the best decision-making process and will also lead to improved democracy in the country and in the world as a whole. So it is very important that we find a central and reliable database where we can rely on the safety of the data, that these have not been dealt with, and that these are the official and real documents that we are looking at at at at at at at each one. Then I'd like to remind the Senate of the 15th floor. The new constitution, which has not yet been seen, shows the facts. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Everyone is free to collect and share information. The management board should be transparent and contain data such as conferences, documenting and documenting messages, source, process and share. Such data should only be removed by law. Information and data on governments should be available without recovery, and by law the public's access should be ensured by law to all public data collected or supported by the public. A list of all issues and data in the possession of the official, source and content should be available to all. The collection, sharing and dispensing of data, storage, and publication can only be set by law for democratic purposes, such as personal protection, privacy, national security, or the legal work of surveillance agencies. It is legal to limit access to work documents, as it is not necessary to maintain normal government conditions. Information on the data of a legal secrecy should be provided regarding the reasons for the confidentiality and limitations of the time. The content of this synoptic proposal rhymes well with the limitations taken, both in the constitution and in the basicity of Pirata. As noted in the history of a wave. Harðardóttir In an effort to encourage the government to enforce the laws that already exist in the country, the Legislature of the Council arrangement is part of the proposal to encourage the government to enforce the laws that already exist. In 1st. Information legislation will see their goal, but it is to ensure transparency in the administrations and in the management of public interests in order to strengthen information rights and freedom of expression, public access to democracies, maintenance of the media and the public with governments, the media's ability to communicate information on public issues and public trust in the administration of government. I believe this council mishap proposal, i.e. if it is accepted and carried out, an important step will be taken in working out the objectives of information legislation. Finally, I'm going to allow me to read from the article on which the synonym is based, which is 13. Information legislation has to do with the release of information into the hands of the government. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The public should be regularly informed about their activities, such as by an electronic version of the reports, the summary of important projects or the publication of other data. The management board shall work systematically on making files of language, a list of language data, and the data itself in an electronic format. The same applies to databases and files. Care should be taken to ensure that publication does not go against private or public interests [...] The Minister shall issue a more detailed Regulation for the publication of this information. 1st and 2nd. it should be carried out, including steps and deadlines given to governments to meet specific objectives and how and where information should be published [...] ensure that, where possible, the public access to published information is equal to that of the public as well as the agreement between the government. Finally, I want to give special attention to the final aspect of this article: And, as far as possible, rules to make sure that the publication of the information is used to match the use of disabled to others. I finally wanted less than I could. The minister shall recommend that in this assembly resolution, if it is agreed and that the minister should treat it, the Minister shall appoint a Regulation which requires the preparation of this information and how to maintain the appropriate facilities and facilities for access to the information. I would like to say that especially those who are disabled will be kept in mind the access to information, whatever the people's disability may be, because there are many barriers to information that happen to disabled people. Therefore, easy-to-read fonts, but also bioavailability for reduced vision and possibly also access to at least some of the data on easy and accessible materials, could be considered more readily than even institutions use all equals. This I wanted to remind you eventually, to ensure that these data will be accessed in the database and that we'll keep that in mind right from the beginning. The one that stands here is a big supportist that we start all the law and public work first to consider the human rights of the cities and how they are guaranteed by the legislation and implementation and then get started building something around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u71	A respectable president. In this regard, much good and interesting things occur even if they may be slighted. First, the proposal reflects a general trend developing in the community as a response to the development of information technology. Today it is much easier to communicate information through the Internet, so the public and the media can apply information wherever they can be found. Second, it is the thought that public funds are generally available to the public. What's official should be open. This is a trend that has been going on for several years. I want, for example. mention that action at the Ministry of Environment, at this time at the highest level. Ministers, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, when surveying land data was made free, all of them had been funded for public funds and had been determined to charge people again for the access, when technology is now allowed to communicate to them in some way without cost to the government. Third, it is here, and this may be the big case, and has been brought into it in previous talks, the reaction to secret thinking, which has been too often with the people, especially around the government business, the advice of counseling. I don't think there's a person who's been working in the press who doesn't know any stories about how the Ministry is trying to reduce access to information on the basis of information law. One of the Trixes that can be applied is that anyone who asks for access to the information can accurately specify the information he wants, which is quite difficult when the person does not have access to the indexes of the file. Therefore, e.g. the website here referred to in Norway normal first stop of Norwegian journalists when looking for official information, to see exactly what it can be called. This is a reaction that has been somewhat dominant, but we have been dealing with that secretism, in the range of degrees of chaos, when, as a community, we were found in several places as to the extent and extent of the problem. If the media had had had a better way of getting information about the collapse, they might have been able to do something different. Would we have been affected by a reduction in the crash if the Ministry hadn't subjugated us when information was requested? It was referred to in paragraph 15. the proposal to a new constitution, an article on information rights, which basically states in one sentence what this proposal for Congress is to make. In this 1 5. By permission of the President's permission, the board of directors states: A review of all issues and data in the possession of the official, source and content will be available to all. In a paper with the proposal of a government council, just referred to the Norwegian website referred to in this synonym. The Council of Government was working at a time when we were in a community that realized the situation, was realizing the secret things, we were in a shock after the collapse. That is why it may be understandable that a government body suggested this. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. in a report that I have already mentioned, by permission of the president: ▪ It has been difficult for the media to obtain information from public sources where there is no overview on certain issues. Hence, a government law order suggested that the initiative - related government be able to publish information because it is one of the democracies in a democracies that the media have good access to public information, and the public has it too that it cannot be subjugated, as it were. paritaprevir For example, Viktor Orri Valgarðsson wrote about the reports of blessed reports that had appeared in the Ministry of Economic Affairs advising considerably earlier than they did here in the Assembly Hall. A question of the first - century background was asked. A senator would have considered the cost. Then I found myself in the Generals database that the cost has already been fired. June 18, 2014, the reply of the prime minister to an inquiry from the present issue was made. Tenth. Smoke. n., Hrafn Snæfni Gunnarsson, on information grantings and regulations under information law, where the senator asks the secretary how to assist in making lawsuits available on the website. It says that the Ministry of Presidency studied the Norwegian profession in this area, as well as that it is thought to launch a test project that still depends on the loyalty of financing. It's been three years now, and this funding has not been guaranteed. But in that response it is estimated that the cost is 10 million. K. I don't think that's much. In fact, I'm surprised that based on the fact that three years ago in this council hall, this matter was discussed in connection with the inquiry of the then senator, Helgi Hrafn Hoffens Gunnarsson, and the years before, in connection with the proposals of the Council, it seems to be the highest. in response to the senator of 2014, the preeminent prime minister is quite impressed with the idea. It seems to me that this is so long time that it should be a rather light task to allow this matter to continue for further discussion and final approval on the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u72	Mr. President. I welcome this future bill. I think it's a much bigger case than it might be when you count heads in the room, but it could also be a sign that you don't know anything specifically about it. This is somewhat in line with the comments made by members of the administration parties in connection with the government covenant and good if it is not consistent with opening up and increasing the transparency. I have full faith that men will fulfill that word, for the discussion of open society and active democracy has not been limited to certain political policies. You can read about it evenly in Pirate chats and in the posts of Styrmir son of Gunnarsson, who has been very careful about it. I think it's a democracy. Over the past few weeks, we have made several special discussions about how democracy can be improved, campaigning, especially young people, and, of course, the public. In the digital world, young people are very familiar with the technology referred to here for information and research. I think it's an incredibly timely and necessary step to open up and trigger people's interest in watching what's going on in the community at any given moment, so I don't talk about the necessary availability of journalists and their potential to show the support they're supposed to give, as well. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in. However, as with this case, it would certainly be rare to think that the initial readings or interpretation proposals arose because of the wrong behavior of an individual minister. There is no need to recall yet again that the then secretary of finance was sitting on important reports that would surely have influenced elections in some way, on the other hand, he mentioned in answer that the reports had been stopped by elections, whatever he meant, I don't know. He also spoke of it in the public address that since it's not punished, there's nothing wrong with this. But you may have to make the minimum requirement for a minister that they set stricter standards rather than just stop when it comes to breaking the law. Happily, our community is by far the most fundamentally based on moral standards, so I found that to be a substantial answer. I think this is a very necessary matter, and I think it's part of a Senate room to show that everyone really agrees, and they don't think there's anything that needs to be discussed in the first discussion, so I assume this is going through.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u73	A respectable president. I agree that I'm not going to extend the discussion specifically on this fine subject. I hereby declare that I support every good case of electronic administration. I think it's very important that we get even more involved. It increases transparency, as it has been considered, and is important for the democracies community. It is also more practical for our community to power our ministry. And it's environmental. And all of that, I think it's a good thing to do here. I want all of us to keep pushing the pressure that our management system can be electronic in the best possible way. Then I use the opportunity to look over the hall, even though there are not many people here, because there's a lot of paper on the table, even though we all have iPads, computers, and cell phones, but we in the Senate could take this as a role model and be more electronic.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u74	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I just want to thank you for the talks given here and the broad support that the case clearly has. I hope so. The management board is responding rapidly and that we will soon get the matter back in here for payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u75	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the meaning of the lips of the occupied areas of Palestine as the 1st carrier of that proposal. Other transporters have a low profile. Agents Logi Einarsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Einar Brynjólfsson, Stealm Sigfússon Sigfulson, Thordldur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdosdótir, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brryfjörður, Steindór Valdimarsson, Steinunni, Áranna's Árnadóttir, and Björn the Gunnarsson of Gunnir. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government from resorting to necessary measures to mark the origin of products produced in the occupied areas of Palestine by proper means and by making it possible for Palestinians to take advantage of the benefits of their EFTA and Palestine. This suggestion is not new. She was first transferred to the 141th Council. Much of the time, she was moved by it. former senator, Áni Þór Sigurðsson It has twice been discussed on a committee and recommended the General Advisor Board with the approval of the 141 legislator Assembly, but it did not contribute to its final payment, and the case also came to the treatment of the State Department at 143th. The proposal has not been discussed during the last two conventions, so it is especially happy that it will be measured. The proposal is reassigned unchanged, but with an updated report on the business and actions of the European Commission. As noted in Iceland's political alliances with Israel, trade between the nations has been quite significant, although in the past five years they have been reduced. According to the Haustau statistics, a import was obtained from 1,020 million. K. In 2011 and 774 million. K. in 2015. In many parts of the world, governments and consumers have come to realize that parts of Israel's exports are not due to areas within the international accepted border of the State of Israel, which are from 1948, but to illegal settlements in the occupied areas of Palestine, which are mainly on the west bank of the Jordan and in the eastern city of Jerusalem. Sadly, these settlements have increased, although they are at war against internationally established borders, the World Court's decision to the Hague, and a number of UN conclusions. Understandably, this trend has damaged the standard of life of Palestine, but it is not to be underestimated by the rest of Israel's population. The present government in Israel, however, seems to follow the policy of taking increased land and water supply from Palestinians under the land mines. As a result, they have proved to be one of the main barriers to further discussions in the Mediterranean waters, as well as regular conflicts between settlers and Palestinians that must be seen by their farms. Iceland has never - like the United Nations - recognized the settlements as part of the kingdom of Israel. Therefore, the kingdom of Israel should not be recognized as the homeland of products produced in the settlements. Several countries have undergone regulations that the origin of these products will be tolerated, not Israel, but the region. They will be specially marked. The European Commission provided guidelines for such markings on November 11, 2015. However, in Britain, South Africa, and other countries, the matter appears to be still in preparation or reporting. Among the accusations that governments in these lands have had to deal with, it is intended to reduce business dealings with Israel. Thus, among other things, the South African secretary of trade and trade, Rob Davies, has refused and pointed out that it is the obligation of the local government to enforce the laws on consumer protection in this way, as the source of the products should be specified. As a member of the United Nations, South Africa cannot accept the settlements as part of the kingdom of Israel and can therefore not be identified as the source of products produced on the settlements. In this regard, in Switzerland the big - market chains of Migros and Coop have taken the initiative in identifying agricultural products and informing clients that they are responsible for providing adequate information on the products available rather than inciting them to shun Israelite products. By the measures made by this Parliamentary proposal, the Icelandic consumers would be able to decide for themselves whether to support the illegal rural areas in the occupied regions of Palestine. The special meaning of such products would not have a major impact on Iceland and Israel's trade, but then the Icelandic consumers would have at least enough information on whether the products they buy are produced in Israel within the international border recognized by Iceland or whether they are produced in these unsanctioned settlements. Therefore, this suggestion is not to be interpreted as making a suggestion for commercial pressure. Rather, it is to ensure that consumers are informed and are able to make a conscious decision that has this political significance. Then I would like to mention the free trade agreement, which is in force between Europe's Free Trade Association and Palestine, but Europe's Free Trade Association, or EFTA and PLO, made a temporary free trade contract that went into effect on July 1, 1999, and is provided as a package. The objective was to ensure a equilibrium between EFTA and the European Union in business with the southern Mediterranean countries. At that time, the treaty was considered to be an important link in support of the peace process above the Mediterranean Sea. The most exciting thing is to say that the contract has not been active and that the EFTA business with Palestinian habitats is limited. The overall deal was only 23.3 million dollars in 2015 and was, in effect, only exports of EFTA to Palestine. It has then been claimed that Israel, in effect, will prevent Palestine from completing this contract and enjoy the benefits it will bring to them that their land is torn apart by walls that prevent them from cultivating their land and normal transport of goods. So this proposal is presented here, Mr. President, i.e. that governments take needed action so that the source of these products - which is not only a political declaration but also a part of the natural legislation of consumer protection; consumers have the right to know where products are produced, in which areas, so that they can make informed decisions - and to apply themselves in the international field that Palestine will be able to exploit the benefits of the EFTA and Palestine, as presented here. Mr. President. I don't see reason here to give a long talk about the political situation before the Mediterranean Sea, although it is possible to do so, but I hope that this proposal will be followed by a discussion. Foreign Affairs. I hope so, in view of the proposal being made by four political parties. The General has recognized Palestine as a special kingdom. There's been a lot of support over the years in supporting the rights of Palestinians to an independent state, and then I hope that we will succeed in overcoming this proposal. It would be an advance line for Icelandic consumers, but it would also be a very important message that the International Parliament would be sending into this delicate situation, a message based on using commerce for peaceful purposes. Mr. President. I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u76	A respectable president. Since 1967, Israel has maintained considerable territory. These include: The floors of the floor, the Gaza area and the West Bank. In these areas Israel's illegal settlements are under attack on international law and disposal. This presents a serious challenge to the rights and interests of the Palestinians. Iceland has never recognized the authority of the Israelis over these regions or their settlements. It is a natural requirement for Icelandic consumers and for self - respect for Palestinians and their right to fight that products brought here are specifically marked, making it clear that they are produced in the occupied areas that the Israelis maintain in an illegal way. In this way, we Icelanders can contribute to the scales of Palestinians'struggle against unscrupulous occupations, with potentially dire consequences for those who take up military service. consumers are then informed about the source of goods brought here from Israel, whether they come from regions within the border recognized, outside, and from occupied areas. I think it's a good thing, and I appreciate it. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for making this suggestion and granting me an opportunity to associate with her.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for reimbursement of this important body of Congress proposal brought here by the Council since 2012. This matter may not seem to be a big thing to some because it means something to the lips. However, this is the meaning of goods, which originates from illegal settlements in the occupied areas of Palestine. So it is a very important matter. This is a matter centered on a stand on human rights struggle, a position of peace and rights, a stand of morality, and a stand against the illegal occupation of Israelite settlers in the region of Palestine. The number of illegal settlements has increased despite the decision made by the International Court at Hague, a number of UN conclusions, and despite the fact that these based wars against the internationally established borders of Palestine and the kingdom of Israel. The best thing to do is to say that these illegal settlements are the core of why there is no peace between settlers and Palestine who need to see behind their farms and businesses in Israel, which sell the products produced in these illegal areas at the expense of the survival of Palestine. Moreover, Palestinians have been taken from these areas of freedom. It is good to rejuvenate what is presented in a well-developed paper that follows the Congress resolution that Iceland has never, never, Mr. President, accepted the settlement as part of the State of Israel, no more than the United Nations that have not approved the settlements. Is it not right for us consumers to know whether products marked Israel really come from, not from there, but from the occupied areas of Palestine, where citizens are violated every day? I am convinced that this synoptic proposal for the origin of the product from the illegal settlements of Israel in Palestine is not too radical, and therefore may be completely justified, in view that last year's ultimatum became the signal that the United Nations Security Council agreed with a 14 - voted resolution, in which the settlers of Israel in the occupied parts of Palestine were severely criticized. The proposal was historical, since this was the first time that the United States did not use denial, and it felt that its situation was imminent. Although Iceland is not a member of the National Security Council, we are a member and founder of the United Nations, as the people know and have the right to comment on the conclusions of the Council of Safety, but the Icelandic government has not done so, as it would be expected to report on the U.S. Department's website. So it would be very up - to - date to hear about Iceland's position on the results of the Council of Safety from last year's Village Board and whether it's the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Guðlaugur Þórðarson, who met at a meeting with Dr. Riyad al-Al-Maliki at the meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council last day in Geneva, Switzerland. Of course, this could be done here in the General's symposium on whether or not this raises questions as to whether Iceland does not fully support the conclusions of the Council of Security, a state that accepts the independence of Palestine on December 15, 2011, in the time of the government of the left green and the United States, but I have no concern over anything other than the full support of the Icelandic government to the conclusions of the Council of Security. Of course, this historical decision by the Council of Safety was severely criticized by the Netanyahu government and told the prime minister of Israel that the Israeli government did not intend to follow the decision to any extent, to dismiss it completely, and on the same occasion looked forward to cooperation with Donald Trump, the president of the United States. It's and it's. Back to the council arrangement we're discussing here. The rest of it deals with the good temporary-free agreement that went into force on July 1, 1999, between Europe's Free Trade Association, EFTA, and the Palestinian Freedom Association, PLO, but, as the report says, with the Senate resolution proposal, the purpose is to ensure a balance between EFTA and European Union through the southern Mediterranean countries. Sadly, the agreement did not seem to work as it should, and the trade of EFTA with Palestine's home area is therefore limited. Mr. President. I'm not going to trace the horrors that the Palestinian nation has experienced since 1948, with the related loss of human life and the effects of the general Palestinian population, but to encourage the Icelandic government's support and approval of the independence of Palestine by the Icelandic government and the historic resolution of the General Assembly since November 29, the International Commonwealm with the Palestinian people, in 2011, when it was adopted unbiased that the Icelandic government would accept Palestine as their independent and sovereign state within the border since the six days of the war of 1967. Therefore, I would like to encourage the government to adopt this synonym, that the source of the products from the occupied areas, which are self-dented, and do everything within their power to bring about the temporary-free agreement and to be for the welfare of the Palestinian people.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u78	Mr. President. I'm one of the partners of this council-sense proposal and I'd like to thank the candidate for the proposal, okay? paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, very much for taking the initiative. Hv. Councilmen who have come before me have been talking about illegal settlements. So I wanted to explain to myself why these settlements are considered illegal and what it is as the international community and the one here has so much against the settlements or settlements, as it were. Israel must follow the Geneva Convention, which is four international treaties. Within them comes even. and that the armies of another kingdom must not take people of their own race or State to the occupied territory to live there. It is only one of the many requirements of the Geneva Convention that the kingdom of Israel each day violates, but each day it violates some of the rules against the inhabitants of Palestine. The settlement thus includes a violation of the principle that although some states have succeeded in occupying another state, it cannot be included in its own kingdom. Of course, it is believed that if this one kingdom takes all its inhabitants to another kingdom, it is being taken captive. In the occupied areas of Palestine, two nations live. There are settlers, and they are required to obey Israelite laws. There, Palestinians and they live in a military war, also in direct opposition to the Geneva Convention, in order that the state as generals of another state may only be used in the legal system that applies only to Palestinians. Such directives can only be used to ensure the safety of the occupation. All of this is extremely ironic, respectable president. In the world today, attack wars are banned. On the other hand, we have so - called humanitarian laws to make rules about how we can treat people in war in a well - trained way, let's say. Among them are the rules that no other law should be passed than those of the state prior to the occupation except to ensure that, in reality, military education, which is not legal under the general rules, will still be maintained. The only laws established by an army state are to protect the safety of the occupation. Of course, the kingdom of Israel has gone far beyond its authority in all respects when it comes to the occupied areas of Palestine and it actually establishes all the everyday lives of Palestine by means of unpredictable military decrees to be carried out by the Palestinians. They rarely translate these instructions, and then they court-martial the Palestinians if they violate laws that they are rarely even told about. That is how the situation in the occupied areas of Palestine has been for decades. You're right. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfjordsdóttir said in a pontu just before; this is not a very radical suggestion. However, this is what we can do minimally so that at least we can avoid products that come from the occupied areas of Palestine, a place where children are punished for being children in the occupied areas of Palestine. They are arrested under the cover of night by special forces that invade their homes and take them away and torture them for weeks. This is done systematically by the Israelite army. They are forced to lie to their friends, that they too were throwing stones into the Israelite army. These children are being court-martialed. The children are then taken from their family and held in prison for three to six months. The crime rate in such cases is enormously high, about 96 or 98% of all cases. I discuss this in particular because the extreme discrimination taking place in Palestine every day is one of the main reasons why I chose it I studied. I studied humanitarian laws and human rights and wrote my master essay on the status of children on the West Bank that are arrested and tortured by the Israeli army on the western bank. This is just one of a few examples of the atrocities and wars and crimes against mankind that the Israelite army commits in the occupied areas of Palestine daily. Is this not the case with the occupation itself and that it has been around for so long and that the international community has done so little? Mr. President. This is a very small step, but it is very important to help us at any rate identify the products that come from the occupied areas of Palestine, one of the worst forms of this injustice, but not the only products I have considered. I hope that this will be just one step toward a considerably greater account of this General's disgusting war crimes committed by the Israelites. I'd like to thank you again for making this council resolution and hope that we can all unite in making it possible for people not to support the illegal settlements of the Israelites.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u79	A respectable president. All who have ever expressed themselves about the value of human rights should support this proposal. All those who support human rights should support this proposal. All those who have expressed themselves to support the freedom of informed selection by consumers should support this proposal. All those who respect humans should support this proposal. I second that suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. Councilmen for having a share in the discussion. As I said before in a public talk, I hope, in view of that in the past, I have received a review of the committees that it is right to resolve the matter, I hope to do so now. We've got time for ourselves and the council ahead of us quite a while, so I'm hoping it would be. A foreign - language committee puts it first to address the case and discuss it. As we have seen, this is about providing sufficient information to consumers so that they can choose through their purchases and consumption if they choose to support human rights by not supporting nonstatutory products. So this is as if this has been said of no particular radical operation, but it can have much to say, especially on a global scale, in which some countries have been accepting such and others have not. Even if there are not many of us, our voice can still matter. I suggest that the case be referred to. The Foreign Affairs Committee will be after a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u81	President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on income taxes, no. 90/2003, with subsequent changes i.e. the removal of a so-called volume rule. This has been moved twice before, in the 144th and 145th legislatures, but it did not come to the attention of those councils. The subject of the bill is the removal of 17th paragraph. The law on income tax advising a sentence which is more specific in the bill and adjusting other paragraphs accordingly. But so - called volume rule is about taxation and the sale of property, an old inheritance. That the principle is the possession of property bonds per year in accordance with legal requirements on income taxes. That exception is mentioned in paragraph 17. The law. If you've had an apartment house for a full two years, it's free of charge. This freedom of tax is limited by the sale of a portion of a house that is more than 600 cubic feet [600 cu m] in an individual or 1,200 cubic feet [1,200 cu m] of a married couple, but not by the home in which the person lives. Salivation is a difference between sale prices and stockholders taking into account the acquired shelf life and the previously obtained goods. Well, stock prices are expensive property. The above volume rule at its base is due to the 4th category 3.g. track No. 7/1972. A bill that later became available to the law was suggested to distribute the tax burden in a more righteous way than it had been used to. For the recording of the volume rule, the tax freedom was limited to a period of ownership and increased as it was longer until the total tax freedom was achieved. It can be assumed that the volume rule was mainly intended to match the status of the more important assets. It should be considered that at this time the price factor was so called an ultimatum that it could be extrapolated to the price of a change of value, which was released several years ago from tax law. There are a wide range of ways in which the taxation of housing or use rights can be done in our principal control countries. In Denmark, the limits of taxation are targeted to a specific area. No such rule can be found in Norwegian legislation but only according to the time of ownership. In some United States states, there is a vacation market for the sale of an apartment building. There is no tax on such trades in the United Kingdom. The difference in taxation may be determined by local circumstances. For a long time, part of local property has been involved in the purchase and possession of houses. After working years, it is common for a person to reduce the amount of money he has made on sale of property. The money incorporated in this way is often meant to be used for the household's affairs as the night of life passes. Little wonder, then, that the system of volume has seriously affected older citizens who are retired and who no longer enjoy employment. The bill suggests that the above volume rule will be removed from the income tax law. If approved, the tax paying for the sale of an apartment building will only depend on the time of ownership, whether it lasted two years or less. A respectable president. This bill is, in fact, an attempt to tax taxes on income changes, but this tax product is made from income, not by inflation, and can never be a righteous tax product. More important, this law is rarely considered for taxation, may be once every few years, then in very awkward and foolish cases. So here it is, in effect, being trying to seek some righteousness, to tax money, not inflation. A respectable president. I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u82	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to change the income tax law, No. 90/2003, with subsequent changes, about the gang ordering. The bill is suggested to bring down the specified terms in Article 8. The law. This bill was given at 144, 145th, and the legislature, but it was not discussed. What is suggested here is a law on income taxation by law No. 165/2010. The principle goes contrary to the idea of income, since income is an increase, not due to correction of the balance of values. So there is no difference between income and expenses. The property measured in a foreign currency, in this case in a bank account, will not be provided with a donation or a bonus to reduce the value of the local currency. According to the 2010 law of the law, the loss of the crown's function due to total thinking should be brought back to the value of Icelandic assets. To illustrate: A U.S. dollar is worth a U.S. dollar to buy a fortune wherever the American gangs are at the cost of an Icelandic dollar at any given time. From the above, it is clear that the speculative of calculating and stress of capital taxes is the right thing to do. In this change, it seems that a person's understanding of income has not completely been fully understood but that he has taken steps to taxe anything that is due to inflation. The Icelandic crown's gang changes are usually caused by inflation. Here we are trying to correct a very twisted thought, which was around here in 2010. Both of these bills I've been measuring now about the change in income tax laws, no. 90/2003. I suggest a bill on a spell. 142, 85th case, and bill on deck. 143, 86th and counting. The Economic and Business Committee for proper attention. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u83	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a resolution of the order of a working group to restore legislation on the protection, welfare and fishing of wild birds and mammals. This is a matter of Congress, which is actually rooted back in the terms 2009-2013. But the reason why I don't get tired of offering the case, and even at times measuring it out, is that this is a considerable foundation available, i.e. A report entitled Protection, welfare, and hunting of wild birds and mammals, made by special committee on the legal status of this group of lawsuits set forth by the one represented here, then in the office of Environment and Resource Ministers. The report was in my mind the first stage of a bill's contract to new laws on protection, welfare, and fishing on wild birds and mammals that replaced older legislation on these topics. It has long been discussed that this current law is widely out - of - date and that there is good reason to reevaluate it. For example, there is the fact that existing animal laws, such as those known as wild animals, do not reach whales and seals, and the main emphasis is on fishing. But, of course, a firm law should include all wild mammals, whether they live on air or uterus, and must also be adjusted and increased the value of protection principles in such legislation as these and ensure that they are made as high under the head as the hunting and the crops. This is in accordance with currents and policies in general environmental protection and legislation and is reason enough to update this category. It is a good blow in my opinion to tempt, in general, when we make new legislation at any given time to build it on such a report, on some kind of ground, but this may not have been the case on the grounds of law or billing in this country. In the lands around us, these are sometimes called green books or white books and are set aside a considerable time to achieve such a foundation, which is then put in a controversial process, and on the basis of its consultation, legislation is under attack. Now that I had this report very late during the campaign season of 2009, I find it very important to pick up the thread. And in view of the fact that there has been a new government I believe I should try to achieve a solidarity here at the council to assign a group of workers to review these legislation based on the recommendations and indications presented in the reviewed report. I suppose the proposal will be considered at that point. The Environment and Transport Committee, and to expect it as this is primarily involved in the upcoming of these legislations to modern times, not to be a major political conflict, but to get a success and then to be adopted here at this assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u84	A respectable president. At least I won't cause it. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, of course, disappointed in exhilarating here the macropolitan conflict on this matter, is that I am one of its carriers and just wanted to come up here and celebrate the initiative. In this regard, a person has shown by taking the matter for at least several times as well as by celebrating the struggle. A senator for approval. Our society, based on some aspect of nature's use, should make it a hallmark of living in the natural world, and a whole set of legislation in this area should be as modern and perfect as possible. It may not be surprising, either, that I agree with it. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's trouble that it will not be separated, i.e. On the one hand, there will be protection and fishing, viewing it as a whole. In fact, I feel that this is based on the ideologies of sustainable development, as in fact, so many in close consideration, that this is the case. I myself know the jury mainly because I am among those who from time to time hunt at wild birds and who have been striving ever since I started doing it as civilized as possible during such an act. That should always be the most basic and modern orderliness. I'm glad this case has come out. I can't wait to get it on our table in time. The Environment and Transport Committee will contribute to its success.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u85	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of equality in parental bonds registration. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Minister of Justice to set up a Regulation on the implementation of national and public registration, No. 54/1962, where there will be a guarantee of equality with the parents of the children in terms of the registration of parental connections into a national registry, and the consequences will be the discrimination that is going to take place at present with mothers in intermarriage or living together. In a paper with this connotation, it has been said.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: Mothers of intermarrys or registered couples are required to hand out the National Registry of Iceland a declaration that their child is conceived with the support of assisted reproductive techniques, or the only registered parent who gave birth will be registered. This requirement is not for couples who have been married to each other or for registered living through assisted reproductive techniques and will be carried out in order to be discriminated against on the basis of sex, sexual orientation. National Accounts Explain Their Decisions by Making Children's Laws, No. 76/2003, demand that a woman identify her child's father. The law thus ensures a child's right to knowledge its origin and of that fundamental Iceland's national follow-up to law No. 54/1962 in terms of the requirement for co-ordination of mothers or registered couples to make a statement that their child is conceived with the support of assisted reproductive techniques. According to the so - called Špater estκ rule, it is assumed that a husband or husband of a woman who gives birth is her father. For obvious natural reasons, it is not possible to assume this when two women are married or married and the couple are born a child. Without this intention, it seems that in order to minimize the right of individuals to gain knowledge of their origin, it would seem an amazing challenge to make the requirement for homosexual women alone that they are indeed involved in assisted reproduction techniques when it comes to dating a number of straight - to - born individuals or getting married also using the way of child - rearing techniques to children but not have to provide the same information on the origin of their DNA. Since Iceland's National Registry has, despite the indications, failed to compromise its practices, although it has been repeatedly complained, and it will not be agreed with the views established on its part that it is necessary to change the child law in order to abandon the discrimination of this matter, it is here proposed that the Minister of Justice take the matter into its own hands and have a law order to end the discrimination that mothers have to coexist in marriage or that they now have to endure the national records of Iceland. This is, in fact, a national record of total time error and shame, not to say that the Council is involved in actually correcting this error in its implementation and assigning the Minister of Justice to do what must be done in order to make it right. I suggest, most respected president, that this matter of Congress will be done on a reliable subject on the General and Education Committee and, of course, expect this case to end, as it is legalized, and as I say correction of a time miscalculation.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u86	A respectable president. This council proposal is what it is. paritaprevir My heart is so pleased by Svandís's Svavarsdóttir. I agree with what. A senator who has the right to malign the right to know his origin has become the time when the State no longer demands such proof or birth certificate only in some children. Getting it done is simply part of the process of making queer parents equal to other parents. Not long ago, a queer parent had to fight for recognition. I'm going to refer to my own experience from the beginning of this century in this regard. When I gave birth to my twin daughters, I was in a state of confirmation of separation with my wife, a sort of homosexual marriage equivalent at the time. Even so, she did not automatically consider herself to be another parent of our girls. In other words, I had to kindly give her, the woman who cut the umbilical cord on our daughters, permission to step - up. This step -long approach accompanied careful interviews at Children's Protection and repeated visits by the Children's Health Department to see if the home of the adopted woman was okay, which was quite special because it was the home I lived in and our two daughters. This was a little strange, embarrassing sometimes funny, but at times fearfully shakes. We often thanked our happy wife and I for being old and actually able to cope without simply feeling that we were almost unbearable. But I'm going to say something so that there is no doubt in the ocean that all the employees of Child Welfare were nothing but lovely. In that town, they simply had to deal with the fact that they sisters had been born to one of the two women in a confirmed boarding place, and no father was mentioned. Children's protection here in Reykjavík will not at the time have had to deal with this in the past. There we were on the road so that they could be held, a respectable president. Iceland was the second country in the world after Denmark to legalize that right. In time, one mother would have to give the other permission to step away from her children. Five years after our daughters were born, or in 2006, legal rules were set out on the parent of two women mentioned in ART. The law makes this clear. By permission of the President: A woman who has approved of assisted reproduction techniques according to law on assisted reproduction techniques is considered to be the parent of a child mentioned in this way. The same is true of women who have enrolled in their social records. Despite this, so I continue my story explanation, a respectable president, despite this clear rule, it was still four years before homosexual parents could obtain a certificate of birth from a national certificate that reflected the child's legal parent. In 2010, however, a birth certificate was at last available that showed both moms as a parent without saying that a father was unknown. Unsexual couples, however, had been able to obtain such birth certificates without saying that their children were conceived by a donor seed. There was a policy that made the old man a father of his wife's children, even if it's biologically impossible for some reason. As shown by this fine proposal for Congress, mothers who are intergained or registered together are still required to deliver the National Registry of Iceland a declaration that their child is conceived with the power of ART, or the only registered parent to give birth to the child is the woman. This requirement is not made for couples who have been married to each other or for registered couples who have been able to use assisted reproductive techniques for child rearing as this has been. This is simply a matter of discrimination on the basis of sex. The rights of queer people have not jumped entirely in one day. There's been a big jump, but in between, things go on. At times, time has revealed that since there was a good rule at the time when it was set, there will be a time when discrimination would be promoted. Then there's nothing to do but cut it loose. We need to keep on the watch so that righteousness can succeed, not produce a new injustice. This proposal for a hearing that is urgent to be fixed, which is so easy to fix and probably fix. I'm celebrating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u87	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the alteration of organ resection, No. 16/1991 on the intended consent. My importers are down. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Eygló Harðardóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and Svandís Svavarsdóttir This bill suggests a change in organ resection laws that make it possible to agree for organ transplants in the case of a dead person. It's suggested that 1st and 2. 2.g. The word of the law goes like this: A person's body can be expelled from an organ or organic material to use in the medical treatment of another person if the deceased was self - sacrificing and did not oppose it; otherwise, it is not thought to violate his will. However, only an organ or organic material derived from the body of a deceased person should be used in the medical treatment of another person, and the nearest person of the dead will resist it. The bill suggests that the change in 2.g. The law that if it's due, it's done, it's done. it would be expected that the deceased would have been eligible for resection of an organ or organic substance unless there is reason to believe otherwise. The basic principle of the bill is that people are naturally expected to come to the aid of a neighbor by providing both organs and organics, but not by means of them. For this reason, it is normal for legislation to reflect the view of consent but the intended denial of organ donors. By means of the bill, a guard on the self - determination rights of the people of their bodies by forbidding the removal of organs or organic materials from the body of the deceased, they have expressed themselves in contrast or other ways to remove them from their will. A database has now been set up by a surgeon who can document organ donors and is the most reliable way to communicate opposition. It should also be respected without doubt that the deceased had otherwise described his opposition, e.g. to the closest man. Then, because of a certain reason, the removal of an organ or organic material from the body of a deceased person was not to be made to conclude that it was against his will, e.g. if it was foreordained that it was against religion that he held. V.E.G. President. The lead of the bill is that individuals themselves can take an informed stand for the administration of organs or organic material from their own bodies. It is not possible to do this by spontaneous individuals. Thus, the removal of organs or organic chemicals from their bodies into the dead may weigh their own self - determination rights. It is suggested that it be prohibited. It is also recommended that organs or organic matter be removed from the body of a deceased person for the medical treatment of another person, and the nearest person of the dead will resist it. It doesn't matter if the deceased has expressed itself acceptable. V.E.G. President. This matter has a very long history here at the council, but proposals for action on similar subjects were presented to a Council 140 and 141. At the 143th legislature, a bill was provided for a change in organ resection to be proposed to be agreed on by individuals prior to organ transplantation. In view of the topic's welfare committee, it was stated that she did not feel that it was time to make that change. It would be difficult to look for ways to increase the number of donors from the dead. Yet, the experience of other nations showed that foreordaining consent alone did not have the desired effect and could prevent individual self - determination. A legal adjustment in the intention of consent might be one of the methods that would be considered, but it would be necessary for all ways that the objective would be thoroughly examined. To accomplish this, the commission suggested that the bill be referred to a further inspection by the government. That proposal was accepted. The one standing here was then appointed head of a local health - care group and the role of the group was to better clear up all aspects of the matter. The group was cross-cutting, within medical personnel, computer operators, and lawyers, and the study of the case was directed to all sides of the donor, the role of health care professionals, legislation, communications, databases, and so on. The service group served for several months, including Meeting with the transplant specialists from Sahlgrenska Hospital in Sweden, attending doctors' lectures on organ donors, investigating the administrations of other countries in this field, and all in the neighborhood setting for public information. In addition, the group of Icelandic transplant experts found very important information. There were some things that surprised us in this work, e.g. that during the study of prospective healthcare professionals in Icelandic colleges today, there is no special training available related to organ donors and there is still a lack of an internal system related to organ donors, both within hospitals and between hospitals. During that time, a surgeon's web was not ready for the registration of donors, but it was opened during work. Have now a few thousand Icelanders enrolled in a well - documented donor. The fact is, much of the Icelanders have not yet registered themselves as donors. The media coverage of organ transplants occurs from time to time, and there is an increasing number of registrations along with the coverage, which tells you that registration is dependent on the availability of the discussion. Therefore, it is not enough that the authorities rely solely on random talk of organ donors. The registry must be stable, and public education must be stable. I restate on the fact that the rationalization of the law is that the public is well informed and that people can register if they do not want to donate organs. This guarantees that self - determination rights will not be carried out. Norwegians have been successful in this field and are operating a special office that has the responsibility to communicate information to the public and the media about organ donors. We could implement that idea by having a similar operation at the surgeon's office. V.E.G. President. The matter has been examined, and we have good examples of a new system in our neighboring countries. There is experience there. It should be used and adapted to our situation. So I continue to follow the record of the case then the local health minister returned a report to the 144th legislation on how to increase the number of donors from dead people in Iceland based on the proposals of a qualified staff. The minister's report suggested that the work be started in preparing for changes in existing organ donor legislation. However, it was found that to increase the number of donors from the dead, you would need more action than intended to agree on its own. It was suggested that the surgeon's office be ensured for the development of advanced tasks in the donor field, the Land Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital would provide funding for improving internal systems for organ donors, guaranteed to be part of the study of prospective healthcare providers, ensure that healthcare professionals would receive scheduled and routine organ training, follow-up and effectiveness measures on individual components, and that October 20 would be a public day of organ donors in this country. It was estimated that the cost of attacking the operation would be in the range of 253/430 billion. K. I have to say, there's not much money in the big picture. Recently, the Ministry of Health told that no action had been taken based on the results of a health minister's report on how to increase the number of donors from dead people in Iceland since the bill was last submitted. I suspect that it is not because of opposition to the case but simply because of the fact that the ministry was left behind. It's complicated. It's grand. Along with that discussion, many moral questions arise. We've needed this time to process the matter, but I believe that the nation is ready for legal adjustments now, so research shows us that the Icelanders are generally in favor of reformed law-changes. For example, the book Civility of Life and Death by Vilhjálmur Árnason, a professor of philosophy, discusses moral standards for donors, such as those on the self - determination rights of individuals. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ The moral issue is far more important to be aware of the person's opposition to organ removal than its approval. In a civilized society, it is reasonable to assume that the person wants to come to his neighbor's aid in distress rather than that he rejects it. Transporters agree with this attitude, i.e. that it is natural to expect people to come to the aid of others and give them organs, not to the dead, but to the dead. For this reason, it is normal for legislation to reflect the attitude toward consent and not of intended denial by donors. Research shows that almost unsurpassed respect for relatives is a request for transplants, i.e. that an organ is given if the deceased has wanted to give birth to an organ or has not rebelled. Therefore, the expected agreement for organ donors will facilitate the decision-making of individuals. A study of organ resection was conducted for transplantation from lost donors in Iceland during 1992-2002, with considerable attention from its findings. The greatest attention was to approval for organ transfusion only in 60% of cases where it was requested. Thus, in 40% of the cases, relatives denied the administration of an organ from a dead person, and the rate of denial increased with regard to the period in contrast to what might be expected. Therefore, it is important to increase the subject of organ transplants. For the same reason, it is very important that all cases of brain death are discovered in time to allow relatives to have the option of giving their organs away. In recent years the Icelanders have been in cooperation with hospitals in Sweden and Denmark regarding organ transplants and transplants. Such cooperation is normal and necessary because of human birth in this country. Organ transplants for the Icelanders are mainly performed at the Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Gothenburg, which is one of the main hospitals in Europe. In recent years, the need for an allograft has increased substantially. The lack of organs is so great that we can hardly expect to receive organs from other northern nations much beyond what we give. It is true, then, that governments will take various efforts, such as through education and better laws, to increase the number of donors. In the first half of editorial 5 issue of the 2005 Medical Journal, 91th year, by Runólfur Runf Pálsson, a doctor and judge at the University of Iceland's University of Medicine, we are discussing the status of donors in Iceland from the time they were authorized here in 1991 with new laws about the definition of brain death and organ resection. There's a good summary of the development of these cases in Iceland, which reads, by permission of presidents: Since the first successful organ transplant in Boston, U.S.A., in 1954 there have been remarkable advances in the field of healing. Organ transplant is now optimal treatment for end stage disease in most vital organs. Lack of organ function is the biggest problem with transplant surgery, and the prevalence of diseases that lead to organ failure, such as heart, liver, lung, and kidney failure, has been rapidly growing in Western communities. The waiting period for an organ is long, and every year thousands of patients on a waiting list die in the world. At the same time as the demand for organ transplants continues to increase, the number of donors in many parts of the body has remained similar. The transplant organs are predominantly from the dead, but the kidney is also highly renal from live administrations. The premise that an organ can be used from a dead donor is determined at the time of brain death so that the organs can be removed before the circulation stops. In 1991 the decision of death and organ resection was given here in 1991, where it is defined as the death of an irreversible threat to all his brain functions. The law assumes a foreordained refusal to accept the next of kin prior to organ transplant if the wishes of the deceased have not previously been submitted. This law enabled to remove an organ for implantation here in the country, whereby we had only been accepted organs from a common organ bank of the Norwegian Institute of Scandiatran plant. In the same issue of the medical journal, the report on organ donors in Iceland, published by the president, provides the following information: ▪ Do not appear in medical records explaining why the patients rejected organ transplant. Healthcare professionals have no permission to inquire about this. A number of factors may influence a relative's attitude have been identified in foreign studies: 1st Understanding what's going on with your brain doesn't exist. Either the explanations of a healthcare professional are not clear enough, or caregivers do not fully understand them because of emotional upset over the sudden death of a close family member. The usual pre-death criteria are not met when breathing and circulation are maintained with machines. 2. Faith and cultural background are believed to influence a relative's attitude. Yet, all the world's largest religions may view organ transfusions and organ transplants as good eyes, and organ transplants are practiced worldwide. Education and transplant education are also believed to have an important impact on the individual situation and on the community as a whole. 3. When to seek permission. It is emphasized not to ask for organ transplants at the same time as news of death is given to the family, but to allow time to pass. On the other hand, even before death has been formally announced, some candidates may wonder about their own questions about organ transfusion, and it is customary to give an honest answer. I'm just gonna stop at this step because this was a lot of talk at the meetings of doctors from Sahlgrenska Hospital and the people we met here in the country. If these changes were made, for example, they would need to be changed. training healthcare professionals in particular to manage these procedures and to coordinate concomitant hospital procedures. This refers to some organizational adjustments that should involve only a very limited cost. Doctors agreed on this and stressed that this step, i.e. the approach of healthcare professionals to caregivers in this situation is one of the main aspects of the procedure. One is this social discussion, that people are aware, but the other is that the staff involved in this work is prepared. A health professional who is not prepared for such things, I think that he feels no better than those who are in a very difficult situation at the same time. This is an important point, as I say, in both the education of health professionals in this country, that this is part of their education and education at the university, and that this is part of a procedure in all medical institutions. Number four, so I'll continue, President: ◯4. The conduct of the one seeking permission. It has been shown that family members prefer organ donors if the person who raises the question has experience with such conversations. In other countries, health professionals are regularly sent to an actor's camp where it's practiced. They are in the roles of all day long, and they train to carry out this assignment. - ▪ Opportunities are always difficult to handle in a similar way, both for relatives and staff. A question of organ donors still adds pressure to all parties. It is important that the person conducting such a conversation has been trained to do so. 5. The will of the deceased. If the dead person's attitude toward organ donors has been known, relatives will follow it almost without exception. Sadly, she is not usually known who makes it difficult for relatives to make a decision because they need to imagine the position of the deceased person. In this regard it can be noted that studies abroad suggest that relatives who have accepted organ donors are more content with their decision than those who reject it. V.E.G. President. The bill considers that changes in organ donor legislation are important, but it is also important that other instruments be carried out in a medical report. Finally, I would like to inform the Senate and other members of the council that one person's transplant can save seven lives or improve the quality of life of seven persons considerably. I thank you for the sound, and I hope that the case will be handled fairly in the Committee and then in the 2nd. at the council. I hope that things can be completed as soon as possible and decided on the expected agreement to the donors of the land for the benefit of all
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u88	Mr. President. I'd like to thank this bill's Shippinger for your history. I wanted to ask you something. I'm in general agreement that it's meant to be consented rather than for a denial, but I'll stop at the last bit of par. The bill that says, by permission of the President: However, only an organ or organic material derived from the body of a deceased person should be used in the medical treatment of another person will the closest person in the dead resist it. Similarly, on page 19. 2 of the bill's report, by permission of the President: ▪ It is suggested that the removal of an organ or organic material from the body of a deceased person to be used in the medical treatment of another person violates it by the next of the dead person. Doesn't matter if the deceased has expressed itself acceptable. Now I ask myself regarding the self - determination of individuals, " If his will is certain to be clear before death, I will not be wronged by the immediate ills of the deceased. ' What are the reasons why this authority is really taken by a person who has been instructed? Is there any particular reason why this is in here?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ævarsdóttir Since this question and speculation are very often presented in the discussion, it is not always easy for the daughter of Sólna. The decision to present the bill in this way is made after careful inspection and consultation with health care professionals involved in it. As we stand for the matter, we do not see the right to put health care professionals in a position to take on an organ if grieving relatives strongly oppose it. As I came into my case earlier, research shows that it is in absolute exceptional circumstances that family members resist taking an organ if the deceased has expressed itself willing to give birth to organs. There, however, it is to show empathy to those around us at a difficult time. There, you just had to make a choice. We chose to go that way because the other way we felt was too far. As I say, it is only in exceptional circumstances that the candidates go against the wishes of the deceased, if they know the position of the deceased, they respect it in 99% of my information.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Surely, these are sound reasons for keeping these things in and clearly for moral views that will deal with the best way to behave and deal with sensitive issues. It is comforting to know that most relatives are close to the conviction of the deceased relative. Then I would like to ask: Is it not possible to determine some sort of incident to form if we see a person who claims to know that relatives are going to violate his will? Could he in some way make sure that this did not happen, so there is a matter of what his grieving relatives would like to do? This person may in advance know that relatives are at odds with each other, e.g. because of the beliefs of those who are related to them, as it were. A senator mentioned earlier, since the person involved does not share them with his family. Would it be possible to examine such things so that the person in question could make some sort of declaration that his closest family member or family members are not allowed to make that decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u91	V.E.G. President. That's an interesting answer. I don't have a place on a welfare committee, so I have no idea how the committee will handle this. This is a good point for me to assume that a welfare committee will consider when discussing the matter. There may not be many people who could possibly find themselves in this situation. I don't know how it would be best to legalize it, even with a legal document or something that the person would discuss, not only with his relatives who he knows are having these beliefs, but also with close friends and others close to him who could communicate with them if this situation arose. As I was talking about earlier, a database is necessary, but it is not enough on its own. All community discussions and conversation at the kitchen table, conversation with friends and family, in the event of a simple process, and the result of a growing understanding, and people get more willing to give birth to an organ, I think. You start thinking about it based on what you'd like to do. Would I like to receive an organ? Would I want my child, my husband, or my friends to have an organ if they needed it? Yes, I would. If you are able to accept them, you should think about giving. As soon as people think that way, we will be able to increase the number of donors, but we also need to change the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u92	Mr. President. I am very happy to have an opportunity here to recommend the second - time suggestion. It's about that the Allied Parliament has to hide the Environment and Resource Minister to have policy-makers working on measures aimed at making Iceland a non-carbon object at the latest in 2040. In Iceland's carbon share-free policy programme, the project will be set up and its major aspects and fields, such as transport, energy farming, production, planning, etc. There will also be a series of step-by-step actions, review and reassessment rules, definitions of responsibility for implementation and follow-up requirements. These policies will be presented with the International Transport and Transport Committee at the latest on May 1, 2017. A fully developed carbon-free Iceland strategy will be submitted by the General Assembly in the form of a synonym no later than October 1, 2017. Mr. President. I don't see why I do so much to cover the details of this matter. She has been transferred to a council before, but the report has been revised quite some time ago. On the basis of the carbon-free Iceland policy, we would like to see a complete strategy that has been described here and is not unnecessary in view of the fact that since the last appearance of this Parliamentary arrangement, Iceland has become a member of the Paris Treaty and has achieved a more ambitious goal than we have ever seen in climate. It is important that all the institutions of society work together to achieve them. What do we mean, "noncarbon"? It is defined here in a report, but a lack of carbon fraction means that equal amounts of carbon dioxide are bound by countervolved to the atmosphere from certain activities that result in the formation of carbon dioxide. The total volume of CO would be equal to that of an Icelandic community. 2 would be bound and released from the work we are doing here and the activities we handle in our daily lives. This means that we have to make significant improvements in carbon dioxide binding, but also significantly reduce emissions. The previous section of the report covers the actions to take. We place great emphasis on looking at every aspect of society. I listed here all the government agencies that have to put neutral goals into their plans and decisions. The organisations of different industry and the labor movement need to participate in the Action Programme so that comparable plans are made in the market. We need to look at such programs for all our industry, agriculture, fishing, tourism, and all kinds of industry. We need to build up wood for new transport and to be aware of how to reduce emissions in daily life by less consumption and a change in lifestyle. It is important that the education system participates in this project by promoting sustainable education at all levels in the rhythm of a new primary school course. They need to provide funding for development, environmental and climate education. The arrangements of green taxes need to be reviewed, raised carbon bills, and excluded, so that the entire financial arrangement supports the goals of carbon neutralisation. They need to pick up green accounting and ensure that all new investors support their climate targets. A new council of climate needs to be arranged according to a new Parliamentary resolution to be a consultant to the governments in the climate. Climate and policy must be strengthened within the Council to ensure coordination of recruitment and institutions. What a grand task this is! One thing I can further mention that is not listed in a report is, of course, the communities that both run their institutions and are immensely influential in the everyday lives of people and around our environment. I don't have to track the development of climate and global warming. We all know what that situation is. We know it's urgent and urgent, and we know that Iceland needs to do much better if we are going to reach its goals on noncarbon. That is where, as I said at the beginning of my case, to reduce emissions and to bind carbons. I'm sorry, Mr. President, because of my time, I can't have this speech much longer. But most views should be listed in the report. I sure hope so. The transport committee that follows the previous procedure will take the matter into account for the sake of material treatment. I'd like to use this opportunity at the end, Mr. President, to celebrate what I think of interest among the public. A senator on climate matters is growing. This is our greatest project of legal authority. This is the most urgent government assignment, for if climate change is not controlled, all other projects will be cut off. I suggest this proposal go to what? The Environment and Transport Committee will be following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u93	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the laws of Iceland's national flag and national shielding, No. 34/144, with subsequent changes, flag time. Besides me, the transmissions of the bill are still cool. The men of the assembly, Lára Arnardóttir, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglil, and Eygló the Harðardóttir of Harur. The bill suggests a change to 7th paragraph. The law to clear out the time the flag can be with it, thereby increasing its general use. It is suggested that the time of the crisis be shifted to the law and regulations of the minister of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, by means of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, by means of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, by means of the Watch Tower The main ingredient of the bill is in Article 3. 1st par. where it is suggested that the flag be held at night over the clearest time here on May 15 to August 15 each year. Thus, during the summer, it would not have to worry about breaking the law. Rather, the flag might be at it 24 hours a day. It is also suggested that the flag be held at night until the second period of the year if it is flooded. It should be noted that the specifications do not cover too close to the environment, as per the building Regulation No. 112/2012 of light pollution, particularly 1 mg. article 10.4.2. It appears that the flag uses the flag more widely than in other parts of the North countries. In Norway, the flag can be drawn from the clock. 8th March through October. 9th from November to February. The flag should then be taken down at sunset, but no later than at 2 p.m. 21 if the sun goes down later than then. In Denmark the flag should not be drawn before the date of the day. 8 and it should be taken down at sunset. The flag may then have been drawn to the after sundown if it is informed, but it is stated in the manual on the Danish flag that a regular street description is sufficient, e.g. Could not connect to torrent %1. Sweden has rules similar to those held in Norway, i.e. That from March to October, you can fly from time to time. 8 and between November and February, starting at 2 p.m. 9 and then take the flag down at the latest. 21 But he can stay with her for longer if he is enlightened.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for history. I can't really have a little place to say right now. In my study of nationalities and national symbols, a senator on this matter has written. I myself believe that respect and the weekend will not be legalized, that it cannot be brought about by an obligatory authority from above. Therefore, I personally feel that, while I have served my life to draw the flag of the shenan in the morning and make sure that at any time of the year, there should be no rules about when people should flaunt the flag, people will find it nationalistic to want to be part of a Icelandic nation at any time, at any time of the year, people should be allowed to do it without the lawgiver changing it. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator, whether in the work of this bill, came up with the idea that in many parts of the North, he or she would self-impose how and when he would raise the flag, despite the fact that, in many other countries, it is similar. A senator did well in his speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u95	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for a very interesting answer. I can answer that in this work the idea has not come to clear the rules, go further, and have no rules about national flags. I have not been a member of a board of administration and monitoring committee, but this committee has had this bill covered when it has made it all the way to the Committee. What I've heard from the Committee is, in fact, that men are generally very conservative and want to do nothing about it. To clear the rules in such a way that the flag can be at it 24 hours a day during the brightest time of the year is a big bite for very many to swallow. So I think we should start with our little steps, and this is one of them. The goal of the bill is natural that the flag is more visible. I could imagine, in view of the idea that the flag could be with it if it was enlightened, and also in the winter, that our flag would be wider than it is now, to form with institutions and hotels, there's a lot of tourists. I think it's a very radical idea for a lot of people, so let's start over there and see if this is gonna get paid for it. Board of Directors and Control Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, good answer to my answer. Perhaps I should have stated at the beginning of my speech earlier that I support all compartments on these rules, so I agree. A senator says it's all for the better. Personally, I think there's a lot of things in the flag rules that make me feel comfortable, so I can let myself say here, all sorts of rules about how to handle it. Monitoring that the rules are adhered to is nothing, so you wonder what they are for. As far as this bill is concerned with changing the law on Iceland's national flag and official armor, I wondered. A senator came in on a floodlight. It says that the flag can be lived at other times if it is flooded. I'm going to say that I don't think it's a big deal that I'm going to make a big difference with it, so that it's said, but I wonder at a light point, but maybe with a serious subcontinent, whether this could simply create discrimination because of people's circumstances. If someone is well - equipped to illuminate the flag in his garden, he can flaunt the flag 24 hours a day and then he can load his map of Iceland, but he or she who cannot afford a floodlight must be content with sunlight.
ParlaMint-IS_2017-03-01-37.u97	V.E.G. President. There's an interesting point. It was noted earlier that the idea of a floodlight applies hardly to a normal apartment area where light pollution would become too much of the floodlight. I couldn't imagine an apartment neighborhood in the Grafarvong, and then there'd be one rich guy with a floody flag and he'd stay awake to his neighbors. I would rather imagine it in the open space, as I said before, perhaps at a hotel or in a business district rather than an apartment district. So I believe that there will be relatively little chance that there will be a very visible distinction between people's economic situation. [[Up front.]] But it's good to keep in mind. The committee may consider looking out for this. I agree with what. A senator about the rules we follow. It is the same as the other rules if they are too complicated and too many, and you learn this as a parent when raising your children, it is better to have few rules and to live by them. Few rules need to be kept and applied if you are going to succeed. The flag must be the same, and the rules need to be reduced, simplifyed, and applied so that people really listen to them. I say we're supposed to be careful, though, and take good care of it when we do things about the flag. We are to show honor to the flag at all times. The weather is naturally very difficult here, and the flag is rough, and we need to keep that in mind. But I'm excited to see the reviews coming through the committee in the next few weeks.
