ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu and Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the 6th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, I call on Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates four draft laws and submits six draft resolutions of the Riigikogu. First, the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic for the examination of the draft, the Minister of Defence Mart Laar; second, the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2011; the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Liigi in the proceedings of the Riigikogu; fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on Police and Border Guard, the Law on Rescue, the Rescue Services and other Laws; the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft Ken-Marti Vaher; fifthly, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in Kosovo; the Riigikogu represents the Government in the proceedings of the draft Minister of Defence Mart Laar; sixthly, the draft of the Riigikogu's draft decision extending the term of use of the State in the performance of the international military operation of the State in the performance of the Riigikogu's nine years; the term of the international military mission of the Riigikogu's obligations in the Riigikogu's. The Minister of Defence Mart Laar represents the Government of the Republic in the course of processing the last five drafts in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U3	Thank you. Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U4	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am going to refer an inquiry to the Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. This concerns foreign investments by Eesti Energia. In the last two years, Eesti Energia has made world-conquering plans and invested in Jordan, Morocco and the United States. If you ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications what the purpose of these investments is, then at least the answer to the question is that the aim is to export technology. Consequently, we have a number of questions. If the aim is to export technology, if the technology is to be sold, why does Eesti Energia acquire land and oil shale reserves and invest? All the more so, there's no technology called Enefit yet. Eesti Energia has invested over one billion Estonian kroons in Jordan and the United States. How much does Eesti Energia expect to gain from the sale of technology? How much does investment take? And in what period of time and where does this money come from to make these investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and 21 other members of the Central Party Group, I will present an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This concerns the report of the National Audit Office, namely the part relating to the activities of local governments. One question of our inquiry is why there has been no reaction to the judgment of the Supreme Court in March 2010, where the state was accused that the functions of local governments have not been divided into state and self-government. In total, the Prime Minister has four questions from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U7	Thank you. I have adopted ten drafts and two inquiries on behalf of the Bureau. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the following messages: First, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a Estonia's views on the European Parliament and Council Regulation establishing a European Account Preservation Order to facilitate cross-border recovery of debts in civil and commercial matters, on the draft for the European Union Commission, and on the position of the Government of the Republic and on the regulation for the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 9 November at 10 a.m. Secondly, I have forwarded questions from the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today, after the plenary session of the Riigikogu, the founding meeting of the group of gardening cooperatives will take place in this Chamber. The caller is Eldar Efendiev. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 86 delegates registered as present, 15 missing. Dear Riigikogu! Let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is in front of you on the tables. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. This week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U8	Let's go to today's agenda, perhaps to answer questions. The first question to be heard is the members of the Riigikogu Mailis Reps, Aadu Musta, Eldar Efendijev, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Kadri Simson, Enn Esemaa, Priit Toobali, Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnuhini, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luigase, Tarmo Tamme, Rainer Vakra and Olga Sõtniki. a request for information on teachers' salaries, submitted on 19 September 2008. Aadu Black, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The programme of action of the Government of the Republic 2011 recounts that the key to Estonia's survival is in the hands of educated people. This is why education will be a priority for the coming years. By 2015, the government will aim to increase the share of young teachers in general education to 12.5%. On 15 September Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, confirmed that no additional money would be foreseen for the next year's teachers' salary increase. Money can only be raised by internal reserves. We like to talk about statistics and compare ourselves with other European countries. Looking at the relevant statistical tables, we can see that the net and gross salaries of Estonian teachers are significantly behind those of the rest of the OECD countries. Estonia is among the last five to be respected in comparison with 34 OECD countries. Our questions in writing relate specifically to the pay of teachers. It would be good to get answers not from here and there or make them up yourself, but to hear explanations from the highest official in the government, so that the matter can be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Black. I would ask the Prime Minister of the Chair to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will respond to your inquiry into teachers' salaries on 19 September. The first question: 'What arguments do we not intend to raise teachers' salaries next year? In view of the state budget's possibilities, the 2012 state budget does not foresee any increase in operating costs for the public sector. Thus, the minimum rates of pay for teachers laid down by the Government of the Republic regulation remain unchanged. This does not mean that teachers' pay cannot increase, both as a statistical average and as individual teachers separately. This raise is possible if the school network is optimised. The second question: "How do you expect teachers to cope with price increases if their pay does not rise? " The current minimum wage rates for municipal school teachers are indeed at the 2008 level. However, in the medium term, the wages of educators, including teachers, have increased. In 2010, the average wage of educators in Estonia was 37.6% higher than in 2006. The increase in the average wage in Estonia has been 31.6%, or somewhat less. During the crisis years, the wage of educators decreased somewhat more slowly than the Estonian average wage as a whole. The average wage of educators in 2010 was 3.3% lower than in 2008, in Estonia as a whole this figure was 4%, and in public administration, as we all know, as much as 10%. When it comes to real wages, that is to say taking inflation into account, in 2010, the average real wage of our educational staff was 14% higher than in 2006. It is true that, compared to the peak before the crisis, it is 2008 - the average real wage was 6% lower last year. Many others, not just teachers, also face difficulties. In this respect, it should be recognised that the pay problem is the most painful for teachers who work part-time. This also underlines the need to organise the school network, both at national and, in particular, at local level. Question 3: "How is the Government of the Republic planning to tackle the problem of ageing teachers, overly low pay and improving the reputation of teachers? " The average teacher ages as the Estonian population ages. As work experience increases, however, the professional level of teachers increases and we can be satisfied that many experienced teachers work in our schools. Today, the average age of an Estonian teacher is 46.7 years. I do not consider the longer life span of the Estonian people to be a major problem. I also do not consider it a problem that we have many experienced teachers at school. But of course, young teachers are still needed in schools. And so in recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to promote the teacher's profession and support young teachers. Since 2004, for example, a teacher without experience in teacher training has been offered support through a special professional year support programme aimed at helping a beginner to gain professional security. Young people who have completed teacher training to work in rural areas can apply for an initial grant of EUR 12782. Teacher learners benefit from a number of benefits in terms of student grants and student loan conditions. For example, students who study part-time teacher training curricula, i.e. teachers who are already working, can apply for student loans. From 2008, up to 100 teacher training students can apply for an additional scholarship of EUR 1278 per year. At the University of Tartu, a scholarship called Peeter Põld, worth EUR 1920, is awarded annually to a good student in the field of education. The call for teachers to be popularised and to improve their image is also dealt with in the European Social Fund's programmes. The "Eduko' programme to promote education and teacher training, implemented by Archimedes Foundation, will develop and popularise teacher training and support the emergence and activities of communities interested in teacher education and teacher training, as well as the initiatives of students and young teachers participating in the professional year. For example, the month of a good teacher is now underway. With the support of other educational programmes, cooperation between teachers will be developed and the activities of teachers' professional and professional networks will be funded, the best performers recognised and good experience disseminated. The aim is the emergence of strong and professional communities. The Ministry of Education and Research has supported the training and development of teachers participating in the Youth School programme based on a private initiative. This programme has made a significant contribution to enhancing the image of the teaching profession. In the coming years, the important goal is to increase the interest of capable secondary school graduates in teaching and to provide them with a good level of education. To this end, the government programme plans to develop and implement a better functioning model of teacher training internships. Question 4: How do you assess the proposal to link teachers' salaries to the average salary in Estonia? 'I'm taking no for it. Question 5: "When will the Government of the Republic begin to value the profession of teacher and raise their wages? 'The Government of the Republic values the work of teachers. I would like to recall that the minimum wage of a teacher with a teacher's grade has been used in my previous answers to the questions over the medium term, which has increased by 44% in 2006-2010. This is despite the mid-term setback when we had to give up, under the pressure of circumstances, the increase in the minimum wage for teachers planned for 2009. By the way, according to the OECD review "Education at a Glance 2010," the average wage of upper secondary school teachers among OECD countries has increased by 46% in 2005-2009, most notably in Estonia. I agree: teachers must be paid a decent salary. It is a joy to have an education system in place to pay teachers a wage that is worth the money. Estonia, as we know, spends 7% of its gross domestic product on education, and with this 7%, Estonia is the fourth largest after Denmark, Sweden and Cyprus in the European Union. The issue is the efficiency of the system and the efficiency of the system, the Minister of Education and Research, together with the Ministry, is currently also working very intensively. In 1997, 224000 students studied in Estonian general education schools. In 2010, there were more than a third of them: 145939. In those years, the number of teachers was 11984 and 11970, i.e. only 14 fewer, i.e. 0.12% less, respectively. If the number of teachers had been kept in line with the number of pupils, teachers' salaries would now be 50% higher. School reform, organisation of the school network is urgently needed and upper secondary schools should be started. If the upper secondary school network were to be organized and there would be 54 to 100 upper secondary schools instead of 220 in Estonia, this could result in a 30% increase in teachers' pay. As has been said, the Ministry of Education has started to develop proposals for the organisation of the school network, which aims to pay teachers a decent salary alongside raising the quality of education. However, the organisation of the school network can only take place in constructive cooperation between the ministry, local authorities and other parties. I hope that the need to clean up the school network will also be felt by teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U12	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions, too. Starts with my colleague, Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U13	Thank you. Prime Minister! Your answer was such that there would be money to raise teachers' salaries, but only if three of the four upper secondary schools currently in operation were closed. This is unlikely to happen, however, because the Estonian state cannot afford to have a peripheralisation of education ahead of us and a good education would become inaccessible to many children. My question concerns teachers, in the context of next year. For 30 months, the people of Estonia have been in such a position that each month their real salary is lower ♪ they can afford less for their salary. Now the government has announced good news that next year the real wage drop will end. But not for teachers, because if the money for the teachers' pay is not found next year and prices are still rising, the teachers' impoverishment will continue. What message do you have for teachers whose professional reputation is very good, as you have confirmed, for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U14	I've already sent the message. I'm counting on an active involvement of teachers in the organization of the school network. As a result of this more effective use of money for education, the salaries of teachers will also increase. We know that we have people in many areas of life who are unhappy because their wages are low. At the same time, in comparison with other countries in the European Union, it must be recognised that, if the percentage of gross domestic product is taken as a basis, these areas are much better financed than those in other countries. So eliminating inefficiencies can raise the wages of a very large number of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U15	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U16	Thank you. Prime Minister! As usual, it is very refreshing to listen to your speech. The mood's coming up. You're gonna get out of this hall and wonder why these teachers are gonna be gathering in front of this castle tomorrow. That's funny people! But it seems to me that in the next few times, you should start carefully reviewing your advisors' speeches, because logic has not been in place in your speeches in the last few weeks. I will give you two examples. 46% of the salaries of Estonian teachers have risen as a result of the fastest development in 34 countries. And we're still the last ones!? Where were we before? That's point 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U17	Thank you. We were in the middle of nowhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U18	There's another half. You're saying the government is very respectful of teachers. Among the 34 countries, we respect teachers so much that we pay them the least. What, then, is reflected in this great love? And the third question. You say that from GDP we pay a great deal to educators, the share of which is highest. I do not understand this: does it mean that our GDP is so small?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U19	That is a very good point: it is small! Our GDP is growing fast, but it is still small. And, of course, we have to admit that the OECD, where we are in the latter with the salaries of our teachers and in the same way as the gross domestic product, is one of the clubs of the rich countries. Estonia has now been accepted there, but there are not many members of the club. Of course, it would be much more exhilarating for us to compare ourselves with the countries remaining in the UN Human Development Report rankings. But I am pleased that we consider it perfectly normal that we compare our standard of living, our standard of living, with that of the most prosperous countries in the world. It is not written by my advisor that the OECD notes that teachers' salaries in Estonia have increased most rapidly among OECD member states in 2005-2009. This comes directly from the OECD report. It's a fact, there's no mistake. And when you asked where we were before, we were still in real mudality, not in the club of the richest countries in the world. Give me some time, we'll catch up with the first ones! I'd like to grieve Kadri Samson. He's complaining to me that what I'm saying is too beautiful. You even said you'd always be happy to get out of this hall. Let's do the opposite this time. I won't make sure next year everything gets better. We do not know what will happen in the global economy. There is now a great deal of talk about the W-shaped crisis that there will be another crisis. What ends this big debt crisis is impossible for me to predict, and I think there is no one in the world who knows what it's going to end with. Very well-rounded newspapers can read impatienced scenarios. Some believe that the situation may turn out to be that the granting of credit is completely discredited by the loss of confidence between banks. As Prime Minister, I don't want to develop these ideas further, but read the world's newspapers. This would still mean very difficult years compared to the crisis that has already largely been behind us. Optimism is our moral duty. Once again, I repeat what Karl Popper said. But we should also remain realists, see what is happening elsewhere in the world, and keep our spending strictly in line with income.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U20	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U21	In Estonia, female teachers in the lion's section are the schoolmasters, in other words, low wages keep men out of the teacher's profession. I have two questions. First of all, do you see the connection between low wages and the lack of male teachers in the same way as the Social Democrats? And second, how do you, as Prime Minister of the educated nation, intend to persuade young men to become a schoolmaster?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U22	I guess this is the result of our historical heritage that most teachers in schools are women. I wouldn't be able to justify it just because of one parameter. Certainly, the higher the salary, the greater the urge for a schoolteacher or any other position. In doing so, it can be assumed that both men and women have the will to receive higher wages. I don't think women are more comfortable with lower pay than men. We do have a very large pay gap between men and women, and with this issue, with this problem, this is a problem! just need to be dealt with in Estonia. But I do not think that this is a voluntary choice of women or discrimination. This is largely due to the fact that women stay at home with children and so on. I have already read the measures taken by the Government of the Republic to make the teaching profession more attractive to young people, to popularise this profession. And it is likely that both men and women will be encouraged and more likely to go to school.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U23	Please, Mr Peeter Kreitzberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U24	Thank you. Prime Minister! First of all, from the OECD, what is our percentage? The latest annual report states that this is 5.8, the OECD average is 5.9. Savings in connection with the municipal reform is possible, but you must consider that the schools belong to the municipalities and that there is no way to do this by force. You are against the reform of self-government. In fact, the school network is very strongly involved in a possible municipal reform, without it it it will be very difficult to do so. The point of wasting is, in fact, the constant enormous preparation of teachers for public money in a situation where there are much more of them than there are places, and I think it will continue. This is an area where money can be saved. However, in the context of the reform of the school network, very many remain unemployed. There will be new social problems, and I think the country as a whole will not get any easier. My question is this: why, for example, is the ratio of teacher's salary to average wages worse than the ratio of defence spending to 2% of GDP? Which is the higher risk for the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U25	If everything is tied to the average, then the Riigikogu would ultimately have nothing to decide about, then the computer could be prepared for the state budget. I don't think you'd be satisfied with that role. I guess you want to know that you have something to decide about and that you can also write development preferences in the state budget. I do not agree with those who think that the state budget is just money and that, in addition to money, there is also a need for political decisions. I think that these decisions, which are financially covered, are the most political decisions and that the state budget is the most political law adopted in the Riigikogu during the year. You will find that the school network is strongly linked to the administrative reform, I think you mean the reform of the local government. I can't find it. Consider the example of Latvia. As we know, in Latvia, the structure of local governments was changed, and small local governments were merged into large ones. For what purpose? One of the main objectives was the organisation of the school network. And let's see what the latest Human Development Report says, which compares developments in the three Baltic countries. I suggest that you remove page 109 of the Human Development Report and read that Latvia has failed in any way to organise the school network, as schools are managed by local authorities and local authorities are not interested in organising the school network. So it is a pure myth that administrative reform solves all problems, including bypassing the school network. The school network went beyond the reach of the central government and the school network is inefficient in Latvia than in Estonia. I do not want to talk about administration, but I think the approach that a local government is a service institution and its role is to provide a service is a very skewed approach. Local authorities must, by definition, balance the central authority on the basis of a strong local identity. This is his role in the democratic regime. The optimal role of local government is determined by the community, which essentially bears local identity and the provision of the service is secondary. In some countries around 2/3 of the total public service volume is provided locally in Denmark, for example, with 1.5% or 5% of the total public service volume in other countries. And no one in the Council of Europe Congress of Local and Regional Municipalities blames for the lack of local democracy in those countries where there is virtually no service at local level. I think that Estonia could also overcome the wonderful impact of the administrative reform. The local authority must balance the central authority. He or she may provide services or not, it is decided by the legislator to what extent he or she provides services, but in a democratic system of government he or she must be primarily in that he or she represents a local interest in relations with the central authority. For example, if the central authority says we're digging gravel from here, then the local government can say no, you don't dig it from here. It is the idea of local democracy, not the provision of a service. Not every local government needs to have its own schoolhouse. Look around elsewhere in Europe, see the local authorities in the United States, who do not have their own schoolhouse, do and do. Local authorities must be able to provide educational services to their residents. He can buy it from his neighbors, he doesn't necessarily have to support his school inefficiently. Let's just look across the Gulf of Finland. They have been able to organise their school network, local authorities work very closely together and education is good. Education in Finland is better than in Estonia. Our local authorities could also cooperate to a greater extent. Cleaning up the school network is not just a matter of more efficient use of resources; it is, above all, a matter of higher quality in education. But you know that better than I do, a good questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U26	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U27	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Speaking of administrative reform, you should look to the right side of the hall, not towards the Centre Party. You should look to your coalition mates. But you warned me again about the w-crisis. I would remind you that the Centre Party was already talking about this when you said that you wanted to live in a crisis like this. It was also refreshing to learn that belonging to the club of rich countries meant freezing the pay of teachers. The fact that teachers' pay is not rising is also evident from the Ministry of Education and Research's activity report last year, which states very precisely that due to limited resources and reduced compositions, a downward adjustment of strategic objectives must be considered. Why don't you explain exactly what that means? Does this mean that the available money fails to meet educational policy objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U28	With the money available, it is difficult to achieve strategic goals without organising the school network. It is also difficult to achieve qualitative goals because, when it comes to a small upper secondary school, it is not possible to hire all professional teachers there and it still remains as it is today that a teacher of physical education also provides English and mathematics. We are creating an illusion for many young people that they will receive a good education, in fact they will only spend much of their time in school. The level of education in Estonia is far from even, and if we organize the school network, we will use the resources more efficiently, the teachers will be happier because they will receive a much higher salary, and ultimately the students will be happier and more successful because they will receive a better education from the school. So fixing up the school network isn't up to anybody. Nor is it a mere search for money - it is a complex problem that needs to be solved. I am pleased that there is at least someone in our country who already in 2007 saw how the economy would behave in the world. I dare say right now that you probably have some kind of thought mates who just came up with this idea, but maybe their thoughts won't come true. I hope, at least, that this W-scenario doesn't materialise, and then you have to say that I was wrong that year. I am quite sure that in 2007, when you spoke loudly and repeatedly about the deepest crisis that hit Estonia after the Second World War, you were seriously wrong. But not just you, including a lot of experts, such as Indrek Neivelt, to make it easier for you, I'm going to bring an indisputable authority into the game. When, at the end of 2007, a lot of experts and I say that the majority of the media were convinced that Estonia had been hit by the deepest crisis since World War II, I think at another press conference it was on February 7th, but perhaps on February 9th, you could check it out from the verbatim report 2008-- I said that I am not convinced that it will not get any worse. That if it's a crisis, it's just a crisis like this that I want to live in. Was I wrong about something? In 2007, our economy grew by 7.5%. Would you like to live in a crisis where the economy is growing by 7.5%? I really do. Could be more, but 7.5% is still a very good crisis. Go on. In 2007, Estonia set aside 6.5 billion kroons in reserves. The biggest government surplus ever in Estonia was this year, which you call the year of crisis, this year. Would you like to live in a crisis with a budget surplus of almost 3%? I'd love to. Unemployment continued to decline in 2007. According to Eurostat, Estonia's lowest unemployment rate was 3.8% in March and June 2008. Maybe these numbers have been corrected later, I haven't looked, but those figures that were published right away, I remember. Would you like to live in a crisis where we would have an unemployment rate of 4%? Oh, how I would like to live in such a crisis! Please also admit now that you were wrong at the end of 2007 and early 2008 when you said that Estonia was in the deepest crisis since the Second World War! But the question wasn't whether you recognised the crisis or didn't recognise the crisis; the question was that if the economy is in crisis, the economy must be revived. With what? Reserves must be mobilised. I recommend that you read the newspapers at the beginning of 2008. For example, in the Eesti Päevaleht the same Indrek Neivelt suggested that the reserves be put into effect immediately, because there are thousands of problems in our country, which he would have found cheaper to solve with reserves than ever. Where would we have ended up doing this? Almost to Greece. But that's not where we want to go. They have cut their spending heavily, they have acted bravely, the number of employees in the public service has been enormously concentrated. The result is a recession, which has led them to another fall in tax revenue. This, in turn, will result in new loans, a wave of new civil servants being laid off, and everything else. Among other things, the reduction of teachers' salaries. So it's good that you saw the w's in front of you. I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U29	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! You probably agree with me that there are two most important characters in every person's life: one is the first teacher and the other is the last doctor. If, now, a teacher who has to cover all the expenses he needs from his salary, including housing and meals and training children, well, the Prime Minister must also cover all his expenses, the tooth will be sore, which can happen to everyone, including the Prime Minister, then the teacher must take into account the average offer. If you need a root filling, a seal larger than average, and a shot too, so you don't have to scream in pain, it's EUR 176. This is the average, the most expensive and cheapest price. And since both teachers and prime ministers are over 19 years old, they have to pay for their money. For his salary, the Prime Minister can cure 27 teeth, a teacher only 4.5 teeth. Why is the Prime Minister's tooth treatment cheaper?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U31	Yeah, we're all gooks, but I don't think the Riigikogu Hall is the right place to do it. It is probably also possible to find a prime minister in Estonia who is willing to do his job free of charge, but what is free of charge often costs very much in the end. In the world, Parliament has tried to work free of charge and also executive power to work free of charge, and it has always become far more costly for the taxpayer than for its representatives in the Riigikogu or the government by paying a decent salary. The pay gap will inevitably remain in the future. It was another social order in which everyone was promised according to his or her needs, assuming that everyone would give according to their abilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U32	Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I thought you said you had a plan to clean up the school network. At least you confirmed that when you answered a few questions. I am repeating the fifth question of the question now, but with clarification: in which year, for example, in 2012, 2013 or 2014 will the Government of the Republic raise the pay of teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U34	I believe this raise will be next year. If these darkest and most pessimistic W-scenarios do not materialise, the economic situation will allow the salary to be raised by all in the public service, including teachers. After all, in Estonia, teachers' wages have been kept at the state's average wage level, and this is already an achievement. But I wanted to stress, in response to this whole question, that very many tools are being used ineffectively in the education system. Cleaning up the school network would help raise teachers' salaries, to a very significant extent. Of course, I cannot imagine the organization of the school network so that one day we will have 54 upper secondary schools instead of 220 upper secondary schools. 54 Hugo Treffner Gymnasium is perfect. It would be ideal in terms of the effective use of resources and ideal in terms of the quality of education, but other factors must also be taken into account in life. Some islands need a gymnasium, but Hugo Treffner's Gymnasium doesn't give you any chance to set up there, there's just a few students. Thus, certain circumstances inevitably lead to higher secondary schools remaining in excess of 54. And I can't imagine that one day they're gonna say that there's half the gymnasium now, and that's it. Well, it's still a process, and the selection of upper secondary schools that remain cannot be born in silence anywhere in the office. My main message, however, is that without tidying up the school network, we continue to waste money, and so we have a lot of teachers who are unhappy because their salaries are low. And this is despite the fact that the Estonian taxpayer pays much more for education than is the average in the European Union. As I said in my reply, the Ministry of Education and Research is currently developing a more concrete plan. But some preliminary work has been done. Comparisons with other countries and best practices confirm that it would be ideal for upper secondary schools to remain 54 and all of them to be as good as the Hugo Treffner Gymnasium. It is an ideal to strive for, but I am not such an optimist that I would think that we will ever be able to make this ideal a reality in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U35	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You said that optimising the school network would be an opportunity to raise teachers' salaries. This means that you have actively dealt with the plan to close schools and calculated how much savings this would give, as you say, to pay the teachers' salaries. Have you also calculated how much it costs to increase the volume of school transport and to restructure it at all, which is certainly needed to optimise the school network, how much it costs to build or renovate student homes and the additional frame needed there, how much additional catering costs, etc.? Have you also dealt with this part of your calculations, and does this suggest that optimizing the school network would be an opportunity to raise teachers' salaries? Or has it been overlooked?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U37	It should not be assumed that the education life of Estonia is organised by people who do not pay attention to what you are able to observe. They will probably take this aspect into account. And they take into account what it costs our society to give a lot of young people the illusion that they have received a good education. In fact, the quality of their education is poor. I am quite convinced that the competent officials and experts of the Ministry of Education and Research will carry out an in-depth analysis, and only afterwards will they present their proposals for the organization of the school network. There is no need to create a deceptive idea that the Prime Minister is doing some work at home at night, and that is how the reform agenda will be carried out. That's not how it works. Not in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U38	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U39	Thank you. Perhaps you'll allow a little humorous-style start on such a serious matter. I carefully observed the present response, and the most astonishing thing was that the Prime Minister confused my beautiful daughter with the old man Heimar Leng. But that's it. In today's debate, we have heard various explanations about how the organisation of the education network and the administrative reform are involved, and so on. From the previous composition of the Riigikogu, I remember that PGS was the most torpedoed by the attempt to carry out the tasks of administrative reform. At the moment, I realized that there was a message for teachers: fixing the school network will bring a solution. Can I add that, ideally, this will lead to, if not half, one third of teachers being redundant?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U40	Yes, it is inevitable that if the school network improves, the teachers will be spared. But already on your question, there was also a reference to the ageing of teachers, and that is a fact. Teachers are retiring, and I believe that there will be no major lay-offs. Everything depends on where the school is. Surely there must also be concentration if the teacher is not able to move around another school. It certainly cannot be considered quite normal that, after a drop in the number of students, we have exactly the same number of teachers. When there were many students, the class kits were not too large, but today we see that in many schools the classroom sets are very small, at least in upper secondary school. The comprehensive school must stay close to the place of residence, whether the pupils are in one class or exaggerating, you might say one in the school, but this school must be near the child's home. But in high school, the most important thing is quality. A young person must not be deceived by creating an illusion that he or she will receive a good education from a school without professional teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U41	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You started answering the questions by saying that the pay of teachers will not increase next year due to the state budget. I think the possibilities of the state budget are such that we can raise teachers' salaries. Obviously, you were thinking of ranking the priorities of the state budget and, among the priorities, you certainly do not have an increase in teachers' salaries. When you ranked these areas, which would require an increase in costs, what was the place where the need to raise teachers' salaries remained?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U43	It has been drawn up throughout the state budget in such a way that there is no money for wage increases. The size of the public budget will increase very much next year, but thanks in particular to the proceeds from the sale of Kyoto allowances and also to the resources of the European Union funds. As we all know perfectly well, the money from the sale of Kyoto allowances cannot be used to raise teachers' salaries. EU funds cannot be used to this end either. However, other revenues do not allow wages to be raised throughout the public service, either by teachers or by managers of other agencies. You know the PM's salary will still be frozen. I am very jealous that your salary will rise, but you are practically the only one whose salary will rise next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U44	Thank you very much. Now, please, my colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I cannot agree in any way that local authorities are not interested in the development of the school network and its reorganisation on their territory. But I come back to a question that my colleague has already raised. My question is: what are your suggestions for what to do with those teachers who will be excluded from this after the reform of the school system? Not everyone's retiring. What to do with young teachers who have been trained but are unable to find a job after the restructuring process?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U46	You don't have to worry about young people at all, so I guess they'll find a place. And it will also be thought of what will happen to those people who lose their jobs in the process of optimising the school network. I don't think anyone's just gonna get out in the sky and out in the world. But we cannot postpone the whole school network, the reform simply because it creates inconvenience and inconvenience. I believe that leaving young people without good education is a crime and any possible inconvenience or inconvenience does not justify committing this crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U47	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! I wasn't gonna ask you a question, but it's gonna cut your ear a little bit, 'I think the system's gonna get better, 'I think they're gonna find a job', 'I think there's a place for every student at school.' Can we talk about faith when it comes to education? Is it enough for the Prime Minister to believe anything, to really get better? We remember how you said at the beginning of 2009 about the crisis that, if it is a crisis, you would want to live in a time of crisis like this. I guess you believed what you said then, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U49	...but those who remain unemployed will be completely unpaid. Why don't we talk about it? We can't always ride a medal just by looking at the shiny side, forgetting what's the other side. The other thing that I'm sure needs to talk about is this. Let the government see how he's ordered the teachers to prepare. We know that we have many times more teachers than we need, and in fact it is precisely the social and wage problems of teachers that must be solved, not the need to prepare them so much that they go to Finland and elsewhere to build or to teach school. Why, for example, was a billion kroons wasted on the 'School times' project, without any clear idea of which school is sustainable, which one is not? I agree that money has been wasted in education, it has not only been spent, but it has not taken place through local authorities, but it has taken place as a result of the government's own indiscretion. To overlook the fact that the reform of the school network, if we really want to do this, requires reform of the local authorities, is absolutely incomprehensible to me. We have been talking about the reform of the school network for years, and we will always, at every meeting, at every seminar, find it hindered by our local government system. But what is rooted and has been going on for years and years is increasingly difficult to change. People get used to, they develop a certain identity, and they're starting to resist every change more and more, the longer we delay the solutions. This is a very difficult process. But simply talking about the reform of the school network, which gives us money through internal reserves, is not, in my opinion, a serious approach to teacher problems. Teachers are a very important company for the state. If I were to ask if they were more important than spending 2% of GDP on defence, I would answer the Prime Minister: we can also use the computer and allocate a percentage of GDP to each area. In what ways does mathematically link teachers' salaries to average wages and equalising defence spending to 2% of GDP? These are completely equal approaches. In fact, I am not in favour of either, but I just wanted to know why this 2% is a better solution than linking teachers' salaries to average wages. I don't see any reason for this. When we talk about internal reserves, I think they are found in different areas of state action, not perhaps so much in education. If you look for them in education, there is no doubt in conjunction with the reform of local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U50	Thank you very much, Mr Peeter Kreitzberg. Mr. Prime Minister! You will also have the opportunity to participate in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U51	Good President! Honourable Riigikogu! I did not think that we would have to start talking about administrative reform again here today, and I would not have believed that you, Mr Kreitzberg, would be linking the administrative reform to the organisation of the school network. I assumed that democratic thinking was more common at least at the level of the Riigikogu than it appears in the press. I'll get some quotes about local governments. They certainly do not give you any thought in the direction you hope. Local government has historically been a form of organising community life for Estonians. Professor Jüri Uluots, the founders of Estonian law, wrote in the 1930s: "An English-famous lawyer said that there was no more powerful institution that could compete in its old age, importance and influence with what is presented by the English Parliament itself. This statement could also be adapted to Estonia. There is no legal principle that could compete in Estonia with the idea of self-government, age, continuity and education... The local government of Estonia has been the cornerstone on which this time rests. ' Basically the same, but 70 years later (in 2003), the then professor at the University of Tartu, the current Professor of Tallinn University of Technology Wolfgang Drechsler, confirmed: 'The Estonian state has historically grown out of local governments and Estonians have lived in community self-organization as a collective structure for centuries longer than almost all the peoples of Europe. ' I think some kind of respect for the history of your country could be shared by anyone. The mere provision of services cannot be more important than our roots. I would like to remind you once again that the role of local government is not primarily about the provision of services, but must balance the central authority on the basis of a strong local identity. Someone took the argument, which was not my claim, but what I repeated is that the history of Estonian local governments is 1500 years old. This is the case when the history of community administration begins with noises. There are a number of scientists who refer to this. In the first half of the first millennium, the people of Estonia remained settled, villages, village communities and common matters were discussed in the tournaments. This is considered the beginning of an Estonian self-governing idea. Then came the meekness, the guardianhoods, and then the vulgarness returned again. The Parish Act of 1866 was in force in the Republic of Estonia for almost the entire period before the war. Our local authorities have very long traditions. These local authorities have been tried to destroy the conquerors. During the Soviet era, municipalities lost their self-governing functions completely. I don't understand why we should now start acting like conquerors in our own country. Reform of the school network is essential and should not be linked to any other miraculous reforms. The reform of the school network must, of course, be planned for years. This work needs to be thorough, it cannot be done with division. That's all I thought I said when I answered the question. So I won't accept the accusations you've just filed with me or the Ministry of Education and Research. I believe that the reform of the organisation of the school network will also be thoroughly discussed in the Riigikogu and Riigikogu committees and that everyone will win from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U52	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U53	That you noticed my answers to the preceding questions, for example, I don't believe. I have just said at length that there was no crisis in the Estonian country in 2007, despite the fact that you have always confirmed that the country has been hit by the deepest crisis since the Second World War. You were wrong! And believe that you were wrong! If you don't believe it, break the website of Statistics Estonia and see who was right. If there really was a crisis in Estonia at the end of 2007 and at the beginning of 2008, then that is the only crisis I would like to live in. And I'm pretty sure you'd like to live in this crisis, too. Now about faith. If a person is not convinced of the truth of what he is doing, let him not do it. If you don't believe in what you're doing, you'd better not do anything about it. But no reform in Estonia must be carried out solely on the basis of religion or belief. We want Estonia to be knowledge-based. We want our society to be a knowledge-based society. Therefore, when designing reforms, the knowledge we have about the area to be reformed must be thoroughly analysed and only then undertake reforms. But simply on the basis of the belief that I believe that the administrative reform will solve all the problems, there is no need to reform. Analysis, clear plan, inclusion then comes up with something. I believe it!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U54	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No more questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? First of all, I call my colleague Aadu Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! There have been great joys in this Chamber of Riigikogu and there have also been less happy moments. There have been great joys when it comes to development strategies, either government strategy or R &amp; D strategy. Sad moments come when there is a vote on the budget and it is explained that the objectives are good, but understand that there is no money. We have quite often heard this from members of the government. One of my former colleagues, I call him a teacher, a reform party, has repeatedly told me that borrowing is not prohibited, but in no way can it be borrowed to eat, for example, the loan money, but only when it is necessary for the country's strategic development. Against this background, there are particularly cynical explanations when it is said that there is no money for education. What else is strategic development if the development of education is not? We have talked a lot about statistics today. We even heard what we can learn from Latvia, although we usually do not love to learn from Latvia. If we were to take European averages, then, you know, statistics and probability theory, there would be no independent Estonian state. The Estonian state and our sustainable development demand that more attention be paid to education and more money should be allocated. I repeat again and again that only the education faith of the Estonian people, which has now diminished, has guaranteed the existence of our country. There is another simple truth: in a country where the basic ideology is a 'thin state' and low taxes, there is always less money for education, less money for culture, less money for security services or less money for security systems. Now our Prime Minister believes that if we rearrange the school network, happiness will come to our yard. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. Education needs to be paid attention today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, but not with a man with a hard-handed hand going around the school network. The government's message to the teachers is this. Many teachers have worked with enthusiasm. Now it is said that you, the generation of enthusiasts, are retiring and you are no longer needed. This is, of course, a sad message. Our group's message is to find money for education and teachers. It's not enough for one or two people to make a scholarship fund. I heard a shocking message from the previous speaker that even one scholarship fund has been made in Estonia. Do you propose to the Prime Minister that we make two other funds, for example, for teachers of Tartu? If we don't fit into one fund, everyone could do theirs. It would at least be a message that our soul and spirit are with them, we would not limit ourselves to the belief that by regrouping some boys will grow very long and others will grow too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U56	Thank you very much, Mr Black. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U57	Ladies and gentlemen, In 2007, I did not talk about the crisis. No one can claim to have heard me say something about the crisis at the time. How could I do that? I left this Riigikogu in 2005, but before that, at a rather difficult time, in 2002, I went to chair the Narva City Council. There was huge unemployment in Narva, an absolutely minimum budget, nothing happened. By 2007, we flourished, we had 4.2% unemployment, in a city where in the 1990s it had sometimes been 27-29%. Our budget grew, our revenue grew almost threefold. It was a time of prosperity. If anyone on this remote says I've been criticizing something at the time, it's bullshit. But I remember how we heard in January 2009, if memory didn't fool me, or from the Prime Minister here in December 2008, that if it was a crisis, he would want to live in this crisis. Maybe it doesn't interfere with his life. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. When I was ten years old and studied at Tartu School 6, I remembered very well when we were taken to Palamus one day. So we read "Spring" by Oskar Luts at school and went there. The place was very familiar because we had watched a movie that had been said there. There a wise person explained to us why this school is so important. Because this is the life and soul of Estonia and Estonians and all that they have in their lives, because Estonians are rural people and it was very important to give everyone an education after being freed from serfdom. And what was the principle of education? It was given to everyone, everyone was given the opportunity to learn, and it turned out later in Noor-Estonia. From there, from these rural schools, which were hundreds throughout Estonia, all the great men who ever gained independence came from nowhere else. What do we see now? The number of schools increased over six or seven years. It grew by about 100 schools. At present, this figure is decreasing, decreasing and decreasing. Now there are 145,000 students in our schools, and I don't even know if the 3,000 that the Ministry of Education has lost are inside that 145,000. But the truth is that in 1948, after the war, more students studied in Estonian schools, even before mass migration began. Then there were more students than there are now, and everyone had a chance to become human. What are we seeing now? It's depressing. I called a guy I knew last night. I wanted to ask for help with a little job at the cabin. Turns out he's already living in Russia. Moved away with his family, even though a year ago they still lived here. Whoever you meet in town, if the conversation's been going on for more than ten minutes, they'll always tell you... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U58	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U59	... who has left acquaintances or relatives. This is not only the case in Narva or Ida-Viru County, it is also the case in South-East Estonia. I'm talking about a story in Delfi. There's no story in Delfi today, but it was in Delfi yesterday. It's a tear in the eye. There the person with four brothers and sisters in his family said that all his siblings were already living in Finland, were not going to come back, and were not coming back. He's thinking about what to do, because being a public official, he has to go somewhere to clean up to feed his three children, not to mention give them an education. If I hear anything about money, money, money, money, and money, then I want you to make choices, gentlemen! If there is no education, then life will end. If there is no school in the village, the people will go where the school is. If there is no upper secondary school, the place where it is will be chosen and it is not certain that this place is in Estonia. Currently, you can choose to live in Finland, Germany, Ireland or any other country. It is sad to hear the discussions that we need to reduce the number of upper secondary schools from 200 to 100, or when one great mathematician comes and says that he calculated and became the appropriate number 54. Maybe tomorrow somebody's gonna say 38 or 16. It's the principle. It's not just about saving money. If there is no possibility of education, then there will be no possibility of maintaining the state very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U60	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Peeter Kreitzberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U61	Madam Chairman! What I'm saying is that all things that start well and go well may not end well, especially when they don't want to hear or see anything. I think that problems with teachers are becoming more dramatic than they have ever been. When the builders left us in the past, the teachers' drain has started to develop. It is certainly not those who are about to retire, but younger ones who are leaving. It's easy, of course, to imagine the ideal, but the biggest problem is always that we often can't distinguish ideal from reality. The second thing: we cannot see how to achieve the goal. This was the reason why, for example, the basic school and upper secondary school law failed this solution, which the government had planned. To talk about 54 upper secondary schools now, if this figure is obtained by dividing the number of Estonian upper secondaryists by the number of students at Hugo Treffner Gymnasium is not a serious approach. The school network is not defined by such a single division. This depends on a wide range of factors: population density, traditions and many other things. At the same time, I dare say that the talk of internal reserves is no longer convincing in solving the teacher problem. We are talking about 7% of GDP going to education. I am saying that 5.8% is right and is below the OECD average. But more importantly, keeping a small country and keeping a small education system is always much more expensive than in large countries. If we want to issue textbooks with a circulation of 2 000 to 3 000 instead of 2 to 3 million, as in some countries, we must consider that each textbook will be more expensive. The Estonian state is considerably more expensive and we can hold the country when education is more expensive. One of our accidents is that in Finland, the teacher's average salary is EUR 3250, but we have EUR 770. Perhaps this ratio is more or less the same as in the overall average wage comparison. The problem is only that our teachers, especially the younger part of the faculty, are relatively well prepared, their level is good enough and they are competitive. We live in an open world, and there's no way to close our eyes to it. If I am sure that the Estonian soldier will remain in the Estonian army, I am not sure that the Estonian teacher will remain in the Estonian school if these things go on the same way. The Estonian school network is the victim of our local government system. I ask: why did we have an increase in schools even when the number of students decreased? Interestingly, the number of upper secondary schools in particular increased. For a very simple reason: if the municipality wants to exist, it must have a school. On average, 50% of the municipality's budget is education. If you lose a school there, it is best for the municipality to say immediately that it does not want to continue to exist as a municipality. I do not understand how the Prime Minister can separate these two problems and talk about some ideals, that the municipality is more of a question of identity, etc. The responsibility of Estonian municipalities is to ensure school education, both comprehensive school and upper secondary school education. Why do municipalities not want to join? I went to the country elders five years ago and asked if they knew about volunteering. They didn't mention any. The reason is that municipal officials do not want to give up the municipality and teachers do not want to give up the school. Finally, parents have also been made aware that a school is very necessary. The restructuring of the school network is not a matter of one or two years. This is a very long process, which must be long planned and negotiated with the municipalities. We can't nationalize school houses. If the municipality is able to operate according to the licence and opposes reorganisation, I see no way in which the government can violently reorganize the school network. It is an extremely serious process that actually leads people to live in other places. Just as somebody rightly mentioned here: transport schemes must be completely redesigned, teachers' preparation must be completely redesigned. We don't have any plans for anything like this right now. I am in favour of the quality of education, and I am also in favour of the reorganisation of the school network, but there is no way I can ignore all this and simply applaud the fact that the teachers who remain will be paid... A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U62	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U63	We will go to the next inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamm, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toom, Esther Tuiksoo and Mailis Reps on 20 September. a. An inquiry is about the dubious cooperation of the State Forest Management Centre (RMK) with the financial company Cofi. Mr Tarmo Tamme, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U64	Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Very dear Madam Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Our inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for the Environment, Mrs Pentus, and this concerns the suspicious cooperation of RMK with the financial company Cofi. The government would have the opportunity, through RMK, to offer firewood at a more affordable price to vulnerable families. However, it was an unpleasant surprise to read the opposite news from the media. This is in a situation where the purchasing power of Estonian citizens is steadily declining. On 15 September, Postimees's newsletter "Buying firewood with a post payment brings to the fore a large interest rate' stated that RMK will, together with the financial company Cof, offer the possibility to buy firewood with a post payment. However, a large interest rate may put people with lower incomes at risk. Piret Suitsu, Head of Swedbank's Private Finance Information Centre, announced that persons with good payment behaviour would be granted a more favourable consumer loan than Cof's payment option, with a contract fee of EUR 15 and an interest rate of 24,9% per year. Hence our question: why should a state company essentially favour the provision of SMS loans to people? After all, this loan is taken by those people who have exhausted all other possibilities. We have four questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U65	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. Please waitress Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U66	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll go straight to the questions you've asked and the answers to them. The first question: 'Which criteria were used to select Cofi as the provider of the service? ' In the summer of this year, RMK asked the various financial institutions about the conditions under which they were prepared to grant a post payment to private consumers for the purchase of firewood. Those financial companies that were interviewed mostly agreed to provide the service only to their current or future customers. As a general rule, a guarantee or term deposit with the service provider would also be required. The AS Cofi, which made its offer to RMK and referred to in your inquiry, agreed to finance customers without a guarantee and did not require that the customer of the after-payment service should have been a customer of that financial institution in the past. On this basis, RMK informed people on its website about the possibilities offered by AS Cofi. However, it is very important to stress that everyone should in any case prefer the option of a post payment (if the acquisition of paid-up trees is deemed necessary at all) which is the most favourable for a particular customer. RMK does not restrict freedom of choice nor specifically favour one service provider. If you want to take an offer from your home bank and if this offer is cheaper, as I said, it is worth choosing a cheaper solution in any case. The second question: 'Why is RMK unable to offer this service independently, at reasonable prices and, above all, to direct this service to less-insured families? ' I am quite sure that, after you have submitted this question, you have also been somewhat more familiar with the current legal framework yourself and you know that RMK is not entitled to sell after-tax firewood on the basis of sales arrangements established by the government, or RMK is not entitled to offer financial intermediation services. After-payment is an additional option for the consumer, in particular for a more uniform distribution of costs during the heating period. That is how this opportunity must be addressed. The third question: 'Why does RMK guarantee such a high rate of profit for one company? ' That question, quite frankly, did not make any sense to me. If the reference was to the interest on the deferred payment, then as you certainly know, the interest on the deferred payment is not equivalent to the profit of the service provider. But I repeat, any person who wishes to use the after-payment service must consider the possible offers and make a choice in favour of the most advantageous offer. You can also ask for an offer from your home bank. Once again, in any case, it is worth choosing the most favourable solution. RMK, I am absolutely convinced of this, is equally pleased when customers receive firewood in the most favourable way possible. Question 4: "Which of the objectives set out in the RMK's development plan combines this activity? ' RMK's task is to maintain, grow and manage state assets or state forests. RMK's task is to do this sustainably. The representatives of the parties of the reporters were also part of RMK's board at the time when RMK's development plan laid down, among other things, the principle that RMK must sell its forest products at market price. This is a perfectly reasonable principle, given that it is a state asset. Consumers of heating trees are in a much more difficult position than the population using, for example, district heating systems or even electricity to operate a heating system. This is particularly because, for example, when a customer of a district heating network can pay for the heat consumed once a month, users of firewood must pay for the cost of heat production at once throughout the heating period. This has probably been the reason why in earlier times RMK has been asked quite a lot of ways of gradually paying. There is a rhetorical question as to whether RMK should have ignored these queries, should it not have examined the possibilities that customers have been interested in. I don't think that would have been right. Once again, customers who need the service provided by RMK, who buy firewood through RMK have the opportunity and, in any case, the reasonable opportunity to find out the most favourable solution for themselves and, in any case, to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U67	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask a question, Mr Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U68	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your good answers. But I'm asking if a public enterprise should be involved in such schemes. Would it not be more appropriate for a private company, a financial company to buy these trees on the market itself and then deliver them? Is this really supposed to be the responsibility of a state company? After that, it turns out that very many people have fallen into poverty traps because they have made commitments that they will not be able to fulfil in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U69	Thank you. I didn't understand that point. If it was proposed that the timber offered by RMK should be bought up by a private company that would later start selling it to private customers, it would be more expensive for private-owned firewood storers. I don't think it's reasonable to make such an argument. Once again, the possibility of using, for example, the option offered by different service providers is fully available. I repeat once again that there is no point in creating a misconception or delusion that people buying firewood from RMK now have such an obligation or that they are expected to use the after-payment service provided by the company that you referred to. There's no such thing. For example, if you can get more favourable terms than your home bank, you must use it. I do not want to advertise too much of the speech chair of the Riigikogu to the company you mentioned, but I will say once again that it is worthwhile and necessary to examine all offers and choose the most advantageous one.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U70	In the case of an inquiry, the questioner has only one question. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U71	We will go to the final question, which is the report on human rights submitted on 14 September by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korb, Deniss Borodichi, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luigase, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendijev, Kalle Laaneti, Jüri Ratas, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kalso, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Mailis Repsi, Aivar Riisalu and Marika Tuus-Laul. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U72	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you have the text of your questioning before you. I'm not going to read it because it's written in very legal language. You understand that I, as a philologist, took part to some extent in its preparation, but right now I prefer to speak to you in a simple and understandable language about what we are dealing with. Suppose that some average Estonian citizen or resident, that is not important, just an adult person is somewhere at work or on holiday. Maybe strong men will come up and they'll let him know he's been captured. I don't know if the word "constituted" is appropriate in this case. In any case, he will be moved to a nice little room with usually no window or any connection to the outside world. It happens that shortly before that, a judge who is legally required to authorise detention has come to the prosecutor and has shown the judge certain evidence that the person who has now been detained has some suspicion. It is very interesting in this regard that, although there may be quite a large number of these materials, and they may be both in favour of and against the conviction, lawyers claim that the prosecutor is not obliged to show all the materials. I will now use the text of the inquiry: 'The prosecutor is not required to submit to the court not all of the investigative material, but only those by which he wishes to justify the necessity of taking the person's liberty. " Then the judge will have to decide whether he will allow the person to be detained for up to six months. Not that I have anything against the judges, no way! Except there's some weird thing going on: the prosecutor and the judge are alone, and who knows what the relationship is between them. Secondly, there are no criteria in our laws to help the judge decide, that is purely a matter of his conviction. They're gonna take a man. It is not certain that his relatives or colleagues will know what happened to him. He may be taken somewhere, may be days and weeks before the husband, for example, finds out where his husband really is. The keys he had with him were the keys to the car, the keys to the apartment, the keys to the house, the keys to the office, are all somewhere else to use. He can't get to know the investigation materials either. He can only do that at the end of the investigation. That means if no one has to prove anything, you can wait. The prosecutor can make his life easier: let the person sit and think! If he takes the blame, we'll let him out, if he doesn't want to take it, let him sit for six months, that's okay. They sometimes call it a resort. The question arises as to how our constitutional rights are protected. At the time, which is now called the age of totalitarianism, the accused and his lawyer from the outset became familiar with the materials on the basis of which the person was accused. We don't have that chance. Any person in Estonia can be captured and all of this can be based on some suspicion. Can we prove this suspicion after that? That's not a fact. On this basis, I ask the Chancellor of Justice to answer two questions that have been raised in the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U73	Thank you very much. Please speak to the esteemed Chancellor of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Answer to the first question concerning the right of the person to be arrested and his lawyer to access the criminal file. First of all, I would like to make it clear that I have not carried out any proceedings against the Chancellor of Justice in relation to this matter, either in relation to the review of the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure or in relation to any disciplinary action by a judge. I base my response on the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Convention on Human Rights and on the practice of application. It is clear from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights that Article 5 (4) of the Convention contains the principle of equality between the parties. The Court of Human Rights has established in specific cases an infringement of Article 5 (4) of the Convention, as neither the lawyer nor the suspect was granted access to documents which would have been essential for contesting the merits of the arrest. The Human Rights Court recognises that, in the interests of the effectiveness of the pre-trial investigation of criminal proceedings, the information collected may be kept secret from the person and his lawyer, in order, inter alia, to prevent the destruction of evidence and other damage to the investigation. At the same time, it is stressed that although the effective conduct of pre-trial investigations is a legitimate objective within the meaning of the Convention, compliance with it must not lead to violations of fundamental human rights. Therefore, information relevant to the assessment of the legality of detention must be communicated to the suspect and his lawyer in an appropriate manner. The assessment of the scope of the provision of information and of the presentation of the material depends, inter alia, on the stage of the arrest and judicial review of the merits of the arrest. § 131 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that the person to be arrested must be brought before a court and that for the purpose of making an arrest warrant, the investigating judge shall examine the criminal file and question the person to be arrested in order to clarify the merits of the request for arrest. The Supreme Court has emphasised that the arrest procedure is not a substantive discussion of a criminal case or a final settlement of a person's guilt issue; therefore, this procedure does not cover all the rules of competing court proceedings. The Supreme Court also points out that there is a well-founded obligation in the arrest procedure to argue against the suspicion of a criminal offence as well as the existence of the incarceration, primarily and mainly at the prosecutor's office, and the reasons for the arrest must be included in the written request for arrest. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force on 1 July 2004, maintained the pre-trial proceedings in criminal matters as "inquisition', which is, inter alia, reflected in the fact that the evidence collected as a whole can only be examined by the accused and his lawyer at the end of the pre-trial proceedings, after the prosecution has been drawn up when the case is brought to court. However, it cannot be inferred from this that the Code prohibits the disclosure of information necessary to ensure procedural rights to suspects or accused persons, as well as their lawyer, when discussing an application for arrest. In conclusion, I am of the opinion that neither the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, nor the Constitution nor the Code of Criminal Procedure are compatible with a situation in which the suspect or accused person and his lawyer are not aware of the facts relevant to the arrest. At the same time, those rules do not give rise to the obligation to provide the suspect or accused person and his lawyer with all the materials collected when discussing the application for arrest. However, the court deciding on the deprivation of liberty must have access to all the evidence and other documents so far collected. The answer to the second question, which concerns not knowing the loved ones of the arrested person from a specific place of detention. According to the first sentence of § 21 (1) of the Constitution, the suspect has the right to immediately notify his or her family members of his or her deprivation of liberty. According to the third sentence of the same paragraph, the right to communicate to loved ones may be restricted in the cases and procedures provided for by law to prevent a criminal offence or to explain the truth in criminal proceedings. The text of the Human Rights Convention does not provide for the right to be notified to loved ones. However, I agree with the view expressed in the specialist literature that it must be regarded as natural in every way in view of the need to respect human dignity and private life. Paragraph 217 (10) of the Code of Criminal Procedure obliges the suspect to give the suspect the opportunity to notify detention to at least one of his closest persons of his choice, through the judge. If the notification would undermine criminal proceedings, the notification may also be refused with the permission of the prosecutor's office. According to § 133 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the court immediately informs the person close to the arrest and the place of work or study. The law allows the notification of the arrest to be delayed for the purpose of preventing the offence or explaining the truth in criminal proceedings. The Procedural Law does not explicitly provide for the obligation to inform the person in custody or the person in custody more specifically about the place of detention. However, I am of the opinion that, in addition to reporting the fact of deprivation of liberty, close relatives should generally also receive information about the place of detention or the detention facility. Suspected detention, i.e. without the permission of the court, may take a maximum of 48 hours. At that time, the law allows for a refusal to notify close relatives in order to prevent criminal proceedings being undermined. In my opinion, in certain circumstances, it may be justified to inform a close person of detention as a suspect, but not to report the place of detention in the interests of criminal proceedings. Delays in reporting a person's arrest can only be proportionate in very exceptional cases. Its evaluation has been assigned by law to a judge. Since notification of deprivation of liberty to loved ones is one of the constitutional rights of a person, I have also checked at my visits to police detention centres and prisons whether and since the detained person has been allowed to inform his or her loved ones of the deprivation of liberty, including whether and how the notification has been documented. If there is no record of the notification as suspect in the detention record or in other documents contained in the personal file of the detained person, there is doubt as to whether that right has been guaranteed to the detained person. The results of recent inspections have shown that some of the shortcomings previously encountered in the documentation of notifications to loved ones have been remedied. In practice, it is also possible to draw conclusions as to whether the arrested person has received packages or whether there have been meetings. To sum up, in the cases provided for by the law, non-notification of the place of detention to a close relative is acceptable. In individual cases, the legality of non-notification or delay depends on specific circumstances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U75	Thank you very much, Chancellor. You have questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U76	Thank you. Mr Chancellor of Justice! I've had a number of questions, but there's only one way to ask. I'll pick any one. You spoke about the right not to report where the prisoner is when he is apprehended. Does it make any sense? There's this Latin American feeling that, uh, they'll find out where he is, and then they'll have some kind of attack on helicopters, machine guns, mines, grenades, etc. What's the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U77	Thank you for your question. I would point out that my written reply to you on 3 October has dealt with this thoroughly. This fundamental right can be limited for the reasons that the law allows, and it is, in a sense, exceptional. Furthermore, it is important that this ultimately takes place through judicial review. The court will decide in court the fate of the entire criminal proceedings. This is an exceptional circumstance that can be used in some cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U78	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U79	Thank you, Madam President. I may have a provocative question. How long may the arrested person not be allowed to meet with a lawyer who could clarify his or her rights and also monitor the exercise of his or her rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U80	Thank you for your question. This concerned the first question. I will explain once again that, under the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the suspected or accused person and his lawyer must be informed of the facts relevant to the arrest. At the same time, these rules do not imply that the person concerned and his lawyer should be informed of all the evidence gathered. Any evidence collected shall be subject to the right of access by the judge. The court shall set a limit which shall be shown and not shown, subject to the right of appeal in the event of arrest. Setting this limit is the subject of judicial review.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U81	No further questions. Thank you very much, Chancellor. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to call my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U82	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to the esteemed Chancellor of Justice! Of course, for me, legal language is like bird language. Let the lawyers look closely at what they were talking about. I want to tell you the next story. I was approached by an interesting lady named Mrs. von Brandt. The circumstances are that his son works in Germany, as are many people in Estonia today. They live in Narva, but the son has a property in the Russian Federation. Quite a few people in Narva have something in St. John's Landing. About six years ago, he bought a very powerful and beautiful car called the Cadillac. In the movies, the presidents of the United States of America drive one of these. Clearly, it was a very old car, bought with a tenth of the price of a new model, etc. That's the car he was driving across the border all those years. He went there to see his real estate. That summer, they took his car off the border. It's not about the car being taken. When I approached the Minister of the Interior, he told me that he couldn't comment because there was a criminal matter. I checked the criminal code, it's about a document forgery or something like that. The question is that a person does not have a single document in his hands to prove that his car has been taken from him. He just got kicked out of that border crossing and the car was left there. The man spit on everything and drove to work in Germany, but his mother calls me and claims that acquaintances have seen this car driving around the city. That means that if this car gets crashed, if anything happens, you're gonna try to prove that this car's been taken from you. On this subject, by the way, there was a very long article in the Den za Dnjom newspaper. It included, for example, the fact that someone explained that the car had been taken away, that it had been removed from the register and that it was suspected that it would be sold in a neighbouring country. Is that a crime? Just in case, the journalist called the register and checked: the car hasn't been taken off the register. But they don't get hit, nobody wants to talk to them. No one will give them any substantive answer. If it weren't for this article in the Den za Dnjom newspaper, I might not have started talking about it, but the press has already checked it. Next time I have a chance to talk for five minutes, I'll tell you another story, and if there's another chance, I'll tell you another story. People ask: what country do we live in? Where is my freedom? Why is it taken from me without knowing what I'm being accused of? Where's my property, where's my car? Where is it now? Who drives it, and why don't I have any ID on it? Why are you saying that I personally gave my property to you for safekeeping? I'm not crazy, that person tells me. Thank you, Mr Chancellor of Justice. This human rights, fundamental rights thing is, of course, interesting. The first point allows you some kind of right, the second point restricts it in certain cases. So let's keep talking. As many times as people turn to me, so many times I turn to you and the Minister of the Interior. After all, we are trying to find out whether we have the rule of law or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U83	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-24_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, After my hammer strike, there is an opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone. There are no requests, the trial is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.02 p.m.
