ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! We will start the second working week session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! There's no call. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Social Democratic Party faction. a draft Act on Supplementing State Budget Act § 402 initiated on 21 September 2004 and appointed it as the commission of directors of the Finance Commission. Good fellows, we're conducting a presence check! 72 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 29.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. We have one item on the agenda: the report on the Estonian Development Fund. Before we start listening to the report, let me briefly introduce the procedure in question. Due to § 155 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, Ott Pärna, Chairman of the Management Board of the Estonian Development Fund, will be present for up to 30 minutes. The next question is to the waitress. Dear colleagues, you have the opportunity to ask the rapporteur an oral question. After the questions, there is a round of negotiations in which only the representatives of the political groups can speak. It is my great honour and pleasure to ask the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Ott Pärna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U3	Good morning, good members of the Riigikogu and good vice-president of the Riigikogu! The report on the world's trends, which is the basis of today's speech, is available to you in the corner of the hall. Please take care of anyone who wants to watch it during the speech! Have you ever thought about a very large Estonia, such as Estonia, which is a hundred times larger than today? Such a country would be the size of Russia in terms of population.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to you. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please respect those who wish to listen, and please also respect the waitress! Keep it down, please! Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U5	A country like this would be a hundred times larger than the population size of Russia. I wonder if he'd be a friendly country to his neighbors? How would he work economically? Would he have been blessed with mineral resources or not? Would he be free of corruption? Would there be more faith in God? What's the history of this country? Not only would we not fit into the Tallinn Song Festival Square, we would probably also be an important player in our continent, and we would often be feared. The coded communication lines of our selfish coughs, other than the intelligence services of the countries of the world, would flinch, and Edward Lucas would rather be concerned about the small Latvia and Lithuania near us. But of course we're not such a big country. We are one of the world's smallest fully functioning countries, which is not an island. The phenomena that may be threatening in the case of a large country are rather understandable and humane in our case. The concerns that may seem grim in a large country are called 'developmental needs' in our case. The challenges that appear to be embellishable in a large country are weaker in the picture and therefore all too often overlooked, but also easier to solve. Since we are small, many things are easier and quicker to reorganize, even the same issue of euro money. We can be a measure believer, give up decision-making to Brussels and evaluate business models for companies with standard techniques, but if we withdraw thinking, leadership responsibility, commitment to doing things on a new level tomorrow, we will not progress as a nation and country. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Regardless of what it says, our small size is our unique opportunities for innovation, and it also offers the opportunity to think together, to agree on what is important and to carry out what is effective by taking the lead. We know from the new world experience that, as long as the average person in the country feels that both his and his children's survival and the rule of the state generally improve year after year, there is political stability. And vice versa. It is now clear that the capsule structures, the desire to solve today's and tomorrow's multifaceted problems with yesterday's solutions, have made many Western countries unable to cope with systemic crises. Estonia has been through the crisis in relatively good shape and, unlike many other countries, we do not have too much background. Therefore, we could become a flagship country in Europe, making up a model that is suitable for a new leap of development in the context of the world's general halt. Europe actually needs a model country that, in addition to public finances, can also demonstrate a state organisation that combines private and public ambitions to support future development. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia is in a pretty interesting position to set new meaningful goals. On the one hand, we are on the verge of the European Union and on the side of Russia, on the other hand, we are part of a northern region where most of Europe's new technologies are being developed, with decent financial discipline and very balanced societies, and which, for example, together with Germany and the Netherlands, can become a new growth centre for Europe. What the role of Estonia will be in this is up to us. I agree with the optimists that Tallinn and Estonia as a whole will be able to become the Baltic Sea attraction centre, but to do so we must take seriously the creation of a new path for our economy, which is much more international and more added value. Good co-thinkers! We have come through the crisis, but still in Southern Finland. The current ceiling of our economy is to be a good service provider in Scandinavia rather than an equal partner. This path is familiar to us, simple and with small risks, but it is also short-term with little potential and short-term duration. Inside, we do not want to remain Scandinavian little brother, make easier and intellectually less attractive work, get less pay. Even less, we want to see our young life divers looking for self - fulfillment only along the border. In fact, there are a number of countries in the world where almost half of the working-age population earns a living at the border and where the local economy recovers once a year precisely from the turn of the year when they are going home together. What, then, is the challenge of Estonia's future success above all? If you try to sum it up in one sentence, it would sound something like this: we will not be able to turn our macroeconomic pros into micro-level competitiveness. We are kind of a three-pronged fork: on the one hand, we have very ambitious goals, on the other hand, we have good macroeconomic and budgetary policies, strong institutions, rather low levels of corruption and a functioning rule of law, but thirdly, the complexity, strategic role and internationality of our businesses are very low. Thus, for example, the productivity of our exporting electronics industry is only 10% of that of Sweden; the average wage of our manufacturing industry is well below EUR 1000 per month. And the vast majority of our exports are made by a hundred companies, two-thirds of which are owned by foreign investors. The latter is not a bad thing in itself, but these foreign investors are doing just as difficult a job here as we have good people to offer. So, education, education, education! My question here is how to get out of this fork. In fact, this is one of the most important questions for Estonia's future. There is no universal model to copy. As the OECD rightly recommends in its 2011 audit of Estonia's governance: Estonia must find its own solutions as a tailor-made work for its own development. There's no other choice. This is our joint work both in this hall and in Estonia in general. So, Estonia's ambition should be to become a attraction center for the Baltic Sea. In order for Estonia to become a serious partner in Scandinavia, we should become a place where interesting new things of global importance happen. The synonyms of the Tensile Centre are energy and the key words are favourable social and physical infrastructure, i.e. infrastructure. It is easier to become a centre of attraction for historical trading centres, such as London, Amsterdam, Hong Kong or culturally and entrepreneurially living regions such as Sydney, San Francisco, Copenhagen, Mumbai. Tensile centres are attractive to a wide range of ambition makers and world citizens. These include students and professors, entrepreneurs and investors, cultural figures, doctors and scientists, architects and developers, professional service providers, bankers, conference and business tourists, as well as marathon runners, shoppers and backpack travellers. Studies show that the vast majority of ultra-mobile researchers choose their jobs by location rather than by a specific organisation or company. This is why smart companies choose their place of business according to the region where their future employees would like to work. The film industry is thus concentrated in Hollywood, East and Southeast Asia's design industry in South Korea. This is exactly what Estonia of the future should become. So, the surroundings of the Baltic Sea need a much more global and different-thinking centre, but it does not come about by itself. Tallinn is a unique city, where the largest cruise ships in the world are docking directly in the city centre, bringing us tens of thousands of tax-intensive customers a week without a larger invitation. Our current ceiling is to sell them the Baltic amber in the harbour kiosks, i.e. the Baltic Sea Silent. In ten years' time, though, tourists from distant countries should leave the ship directly for musical theatre, opera theatre, conference center, expensive hotel, shopping mall or even casino. We have a client now, but as a country or city, we don't make a decent sale if we put it into business bans. Let this be just a vital and vivid example of where all our opportunities lie. How, then, can we move towards this goal of the Baltic Sea hub? I am certainly not all-knowing, but it is possible to highlight a way of looking for more concrete solutions on the basis of world experience, expertise, monitoring of the development fund, etc. Firstly, an experimental economic policy in which the private and public sectors study and test together instead of an exact recipe. Let me give you a few examples. In order to search for opportunities for Estonia in the export of financial intermediation services, compare ourselves with competing regions and then make precise contributions, we have launched a cooperation project "FinanceEstonia" together with the private sector. It is a voluntary cooperation between the private and public sectors, which has already joined more than 20 members, with the aim of bringing Estonian financial services and related support services to the international arena. The volume of the Estonian financial intermediation sector is around 4% of GDP, which is relatively optimal from the point of view of the internal market. It could be a little bigger if we wanted our businesses to get more diverse services from the capital market for their growth, but yes, from an internal market point of view it is more or less optimal. However, there is plenty of room for growth in the export direction so that our financial sector, an area of fairly high added value, can become international. This is in terms of supporting both direct exports and the globalisation of local companies. This type of cooperation between the public, private and educational sectors is also a good way of saving costs, both working and financial contributions being shared. We have started a similar activity in the field of medical services, the project is called "MedicineEstonia." There are several areas of business in Estonia where, by putting together the knowledge and ambitions of the private and public sectors, it is possible to play out new, quite specific competitive advantages, be it the green economy, international trade and logistics, but why not agriculture, manufacturing industry and tourism, to name traditional areas. But most importantly, in whatever area we want to become a significant player on the Baltic Sea, we must have a considerable circle of partners in distant markets. We must be able to bring new quality and cooperation to this region, which will also help businesses in our neighbouring countries to make a new development leap, not just our own companies. This brings us to the areas of strategic growth, another important issue. The rule of thumb says that the higher the country's level of development, the harder it will be for every next leap of development. The general business environment in Estonia is already rather well-shaped, and it is difficult to come up with new and universal arguments. In this sense, reaching the top of a small country is similar to the task of a clocksmith: the machine is made up of small details that need to fit together and set the clock to work. By these details, I mean, above all, human capital, education and science, negotiations with top players, national partnerships and such. At the same time, I have often been asked whether Estonia should place black and white sectoral focus. My general opinion is that it shouldn't. Estonia is too small and the number of enterprises in one sector is too small to set such priorities on the basis of this very important education or other. I am also somewhat doubtful about the narrow choice of the preferred development of basic technologies, since, of course, the lottery winnings are very likely to always be possible, we will not be able to promote ten, a hundred or a thousand times larger countries than ourselves and reach the conclusion that it is the solution that we are offering that is going to hit the world scientifically and commercially. Which, of course, does not mean that basic technologies do not have to be dealt with as a basis for world-class science and higher education. The areas of growth in this sense are the symbiosis of global demand, megatrends, state technological capacity, economic reality, ambition at the level of individuals, businesses and the state. An example of the world is the environmental and green economy and sustainable energy, which has become one of the main investment areas of venture capitalists. By 2020, the green economy will, for example, in Germany already employ more than the automotive or mechanical industries. The green economy offers different growth opportunities for the Estonian manufacturing industry, the service economy and the IT business. In order for Estonian companies to participate in the green economy as a global opportunity, we have launched a green economy growth programme in the Development Fund. It is a cross-policy area and addresses the different components of the green economy as a whole, including the climate and environmental commitments made by Estonia, promises made, research and development, education, innovation and business policies, subjecting them all to the development of competitiveness, new business areas and exports in the field of green economy. The aim is that Estonian companies often benefit more from this global perspective. Similar opportunities also emerge from the welfare and health economy, which offers challenges for all sectors of the economy. Studies show that more than half of Europeans are in principle ready to consume healthcare across borders, while only 4% have actually done so. By 2050, almost half the population in Finland and Sweden alone will be over 60 years old. In addition to the consumption of medical services, these people are also active on the labour market and thus solvent customers for healthcare providers. Expenditure on health is growing faster than GDP in almost all developed countries, even in the context of economic growth, not to mention small or non-existent growth. Of course, there is a United States of America in its own league, where health expenditure is 17% of GDP, with an average European level of 9.5%. The purpose of the cooperation initiative "MedicineEstonia" mentioned earlier by the Development Fund and the Chamber of the Service Economy is to open up business opportunities for companies in this global area of growth. This brings together the parties involved in technologies and products related to welfare and medical services in Estonia. These include private and public hospitals, medical boats, IT solutions providers, biotechnology companies, medical education and public authorities. Why not become a regional health centre in Estonia, short for HUB? It is also the most ambitious vision that emerged from the monitoring of health care exports from the Development Fund. Estonia could become a progressive country in this area, for example, speaking in international organisations about the free movement of health services. Estonia could be the region where the most innovative IT solutions for health care come from and provide health care services to surrounding countries and thereby improve the quality and availability of its own health care. One of the narrower monitoring routes of the Development Fund was the use of IT in healthcare, for example, pointing out that in Europe health-IT will soon grow into the third largest health sector. By 2020, health care should also become the world's biggest source of revenue for the IT industry. In a decade's time, the IT industry will earn a large part of its revenues in the development of healthcare services. We already have some good companies in this area that are exporting, but it is obviously not enough for this area of growth to bring us economic benefits. Areas of growth also often emerge from initial concerns, such as the issue of water technologies in Singapore. In the case of thoughtful development, the same could happen in Estonia, for example, in the case of cyber defence, but to do so we need sectoral start-up entrepreneurs, the development of science and higher education in this field, and we also need to attract the themed development centres of large corporations to Estonia. It is important to note that the growth areas defined in the above principles and developed across organisations could also become one of the starting points for the planning of the new Estonian cycle of euro money in order to achieve a greater impact than these euro moneys. Moreover, the likelihood of success in the areas thus developed is highly correlated with the availability of human capital, both in volume and quality. This leads us to the last three issues of my speech today, namely knowledge of structural change policy, talent policy and world trends. Structural change policy in itself means a set of different steps, one of the objectives of which is to modernise the economy, moving towards more value-added business functions. It's got four facets. Firstly, the movement of current businesses in the area of value is more complex; secondly, the movement of current businesses into new branches, such as oil shale oil shale chemistry, forest-to-forest machinery, forest chemistry; thirdly, the import of new and higher value-added industries into the country through foreign investment and fourthly, the development of new companies with global ambition but still starting from scratch. According to the Act, the venture capital direction of the Development Fund deals specifically with this fourth area: Estonia's ambitious new business and the development of the venture capital market that is a prerequisite for its development. One good example of this market development is the Estonian Private and Venture Capital Association, or EstVCA, launched a few years ago. Today, the NGO that develops and disseminates the best practice in the industry already has more than 40 members. For these new companies with a global view, this year is a kind of signicant and important year, as for the first time in Estonian history the start-up company won the title of Fortumo's entrepreneur of the year. When we started developing the Estonian venture capital market with the Development Fund four years ago, terms such as a growth company, venture capital, a scaled-up business model were like a foreign language. Now you can't funny find a daily newspaper that doesn't go through every other day. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian Development Fund is the largest venture capital fund with a portfolio of Estonian companies. Together with private investors, we have invested in 15 companies that are aspiring to the world and already gaining recognition there. Among them is the world's largest engineering company, the aspiring GrabCAD, the virtually wardrobe-creating Fits. We, North America, a mobile payment-offering NOW! Innovations, Modesat, development of satellite models, Cleveron/SmartPost, developer of mail terminal software, new generation of wind turbines producing Goliath Wind and my! WIND, the eye-tracking technology creator of Realeyes and every man's pocket coach Sportlyzer. These are real Estonian new companies that break the world with their innovations. Thanks to these and several other technology companies, Estonia has reached the position of a significant player in the world's start-up community. For example, at the investment event that just took place in Seedcamp, Europe's leading business accelerator took place in Twitter and all other channels over the fact that there are so many start-ups with disproportionate potential from Estonia and that it is difficult for other Europe to get into the Seedcamp competition if four of the 12 finalists are from Estonia. The event took place in London. In this sense, Estonia's start-up technology companies are equal in the world, both in Finland, England and the United States. Our key question is what to do to increase the number of such companies and to enable them to grow in Estonia. To do this, we need, on the one hand, more business angels and capitalised venture capital funds that are willing to take risks and invest in them. On the other hand, because of our small size, we also need to look beyond the border to attract strong start-ups from there. There are already some arguments in Estonia to become a start-up country in this region, but at least a decade of targeted work needs to be done to achieve this. This much talked about Silicon Valley has been built for 50 years. This brings us to the fourth important issue of cross-cutting talent policy. The biggest development problem for knowledge-intensive companies mentioned earlier is finding people with the necessary skills in Estonia or bringing them back from the world, if necessary. This is taking too much time now, according to both universities and businesses, expensive and relatively bureaucratic. Let's get on with talent. World developments show us that global competition for quality labour, rather than war on talent, is becoming ever more acute. Under these circumstances, labour shortages cannot only be addressed through education systems, and faster and more flexible pathways need to be found, such as selective immigration policies. The same conclusion was reached with regard to the use of IT for monitoring the development fund in the economy. We have a shortage of 20000 IT-qualified specialists in the labour market compared to the Nordic countries, if these people existed, their share in the different economic sectors would be the same as in the Nordic countries. At the same time, we end up with about 400 people in our IT specialty a year. It takes a lot, but it only ends at 400! In order to make greater use of our opportunities as an IT state, we, as a country, have to deal with four things in parallel, the common denominator of which is the International IT Academy project, which I am sure you have heard about. We need to increase the volume and quality of IT education. Secondly, interdisciplinary and international programmes must be launched in the most important areas of application of IT, where about half of the students and professors are from outside Estonia. In order to achieve academic post-growth, we must consistently send our best students to the leading universities in the world to study IT specialty. Fourthly, we need to find a way to find a solution to the drought of IT specialists, as well as a selective immigration policy. With a clean education system, we cannot produce enough to make IT a serious area of growth in Estonia. If the talent policy continues, in order to maintain economic growth in the Western countries, the labour market in the United States alone will need about 25 million new people by 2030. Europe needs more than 45 million people to make Europe's growth positive by 2030. 45 million people are missing. The biggest shortage in the eyes of highly qualified employers will be of engineers and IT specialists, as well as of health and education workers, for example. Good Riigikogu! In order for our companies to develop and not to lose out in the global talent rally, we need a comprehensive talent policy across policy areas and a much more ambitious management of human resources. We will allow the development fund to create the necessary background knowledge, bring people together, and hold discussions by monitoring the talent that has been put in motion. In November, you are all also welcome to the Development Forum, which will open the subject of talent, where we will first bring to the table the world's talent rally behind the tent and the practice of successful countries in this area. Last but not least, I highlight the importance of monitoring world trends. Our success in the world depends directly on how much we know it, how much we understand the inevitable processes that are taking place there. Endel Lippmaa correctly said in the interview to the Development Fund that Estonia's success can only come from a smart accession to the reality of the global economy. I dare confirm that, despite the grey background in the global economy and the future of the euro zone, there will be many bright colours and trends in the world, which at the same time are both challenging and have great opportunities for agile businesses and countries. These colorful trends that are happening around us in the world create many opportunities for us. In order for all Estonians to have the opportunity to get a little more structured picture of this virvard, the monitoring team of the Development Fund will maintain a trend blog called Fututuba. You can all look at it. There you will find fresh studies and stories, such as future jobs, emerging business opportunities, the future of energy, the green economy, ageing, distant markets, urbanisation, innovative governance methods, foreign investment, consumption, migration and much more. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I hope that these five perspectives gave you something to think about. From the report you have been prepared, you can read more in-depth analyses of both the topics mentioned and what is happening in the rest of the world. I repeat the words of Jakob Hurda 140 years ago: the historical vocation of the Estonian people is to become great and powerful precisely in spirit affairs. We must become world citizens with our wisdom, innovation and goodness. This last great example is "Let's do it!" A team whose voluntary planetary harvesting has already included 1/4 of the United Nations countries. A recent study in the United States showed, by the way, that 75% of people believe that involving citizens on a voluntary basis is the key to solving the world's greatest challenges. 75% of people think so! The actors are not just governments and companies; it is important to include the idea of wider crowds. So, the right moment for Estonia is here, and we just have to take advantage of it. Europe and the rest of the world are in the midst of a crisis involving many different systems, trying to solve miscalculations and other mistakes made in the past. Estonia, on the other hand, is in good shape enough to make a decisive shift in the whirlwind of a changing world. Finally, I would like to tell you that the development fund that you have been invited into your life has become the innovation laboratory of the Estonian state and an agent of change. Thanks to the inclusive nature of monitoring, the parties have started to take the development fund as a kind of link or interpreter between the business sector, the country and the third sector. It is reasonable to take advantage of this in order to also launch new private-public cooperation initiatives that would help to transcend complex issues requiring the involvement of different stakeholders. In order for the development fund to have an even greater impact on economic development, it is worth focusing it on investments of a more strategic nature than on venture capital investments. Against this background, the development fund could also develop into a negotiator to involve important and larger foreign investments in Estonia. I intend to meet the various political groups of the Riigikogu in the coming months, the leaders of ministries and other relevant state institutions, as well as the leaders of business organisations. My wish is to discuss together how the Development Fund can be of the greatest benefit to the Estonian state in the next four years, so that Estonia can know and use its opportunities to succeed in our changing and globalised world. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U6	Dear waitress, thank you. You have many questions. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U7	Thank you very much for your very meaningful presentation. But my question is, how do you feel in this area? Can you also put your good ideas and goals into practice, invest in these innovative companies? Has the state provided you with the resources you need to do this, and do you have confidence tomorrow? So it's not like Jürgen Ligi said here in the winter that the Development Fund is a chat room, that it would still be a sitting room.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U8	Yeah, we're a chat room, and we're an act room. As far as investments are concerned, we have invested EUR 6.6 million in our first fund in 15 companies. Our next fund is EUR 12.4 million, and we are in the final stages of putting this plan together. In this hall, an amendment to the Development Fund Act will have to be amended in the coming weeks, so that the State can indicate the units of the Joint Venture Capital Fund set up by the Development Fund. This money is in the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I have understood that there is also a political will for it to happen. It is true that the Development Fund is today the only Estonian venture capital fund that is actively investing in these start-up companies, and we always do so together with the same business angels that could become new venture capital companies in the future. So the future is positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U9	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U10	Thank you. Thank you very much for your presentation. Your presentation was accompanied by such a big, powerful and spectacular vision of Estonia as at least a attraction centre along the Baltic Sea and, in fact, as a great global player. How do you feel: is Estonian society broadly ready to come along with this vision? How do you assess this readiness? Do you notice more enthusiasm, more inertia, or more shoulder structure, or not being informed at all that such a vision exists and could move in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U11	Last year we conducted a discussion on Estonia's growth vision, where a large number of people discussed what kind of Estonia we dream of. That is where the dual dream came out, that Estonia should be successful in the world and cute at home, i.e. as a society and as a state internally healthy, but at the same time successful in the world. Both are actually expected. And when we have conducted conferences and also surveys among young people, it has become clear that at least the dream of Estonian youth is such that Estonia becomes a world maker. And this is particularly so that we have interesting jobs here in Estonia where our best minds can work. It's absolutely necessary for all our brains to be at home. Otherwise, they go to London or Paris because there's an interesting job there. I'd say there's a waiting list. But obviously society is also waiting for a discussion on the willingness to go from great goals to concrete actions. However, I repeat: I believe that this readiness exists. Historically, we've never had this chance before to actually play ourselves on the map of the world. In 20 years, we have now rebuilt our country, the question of ambition for all of us. But once again, as far as I've talked to the young people, they have this dream.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U12	Peter Kreitzberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U13	Thank you! Honourable waitress! You emphasised, as many have emphasised before you, and probably many have emphasised after you: education, education, education! In a relatively short period of time, Estonia has missed its level of education both from OECD countries on average and from European Union countries, including Finland. We have more highly educated people than most countries. Is it not just that we are unable to use our education properly? "Talents home!" is, of course, a very beautiful slogan, but I'm afraid we have an enormous amount of unused resources at home. Is it still not a question of our management style, our desire for quick and easy profit and our lack of investment in modern technology? Would you be more specific about what you would like to do differently in education right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U14	If you are simply trying to answer this question, I think that at higher education level, it should significantly increase its international dimension. What is being done and learned there should not be so factual as to create prerequisites for international business to play in the international league. I would certainly increase the internationalisation of higher education, as well as interdisciplinaryism, i.e. the creation of links between subjects. There are no problems in the world that are based on one discipline. If you go to basic education and general education, I understand that the so-called online reform of the school is being carried out. I would like to raise the question on the table about the teacher's invitation, the learning methods of the future, how to establish links between different courses and subjects at school, how to bring technology more into the learning process. I would also talk a lot more about the content of teaching methods and perhaps more about how we prepare our teachers. After all, they are the ones who should guide our generation of future development opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U15	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U16	Thank you. Dear waitress, You were talking about the attraction centers. And when you were talking about Estonia, it was only Tallinn. In this context, I have a question for you: do you not see other attraction centres in Estonia or did you simply not mention them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U17	I named Estonia and Tallinn. Tallinn is the capital of Estonia and, unfortunately, the most effective region in economic terms. But different regions have very clear niches in order to contribute to Estonia's success. For example, the whole northern coast as industrial sites. We are also one of the greenest countries in the world for any activity, including leisure. We are one of the greenest in the world if we base the green mass on the number of people. I think all regions have their own niches. But yes, what comes from Tallinn is in many ways determined by what plays in the league Estonia. The same trend can be seen in other small countries. The growth of Estonia is not Tallinn-centred, but Tallinn plays an important role there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U18	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U19	Thank you. I also join the praises of the other pagans, which was indeed a very interesting presentation. At the same time, I assumed that you were going to touch on another subject, and very briefly you finally touched on it. That's the subject you're dealing with, I know. This year, the issue of Asia is particularly strongly on the agenda. That is why my question is: what can you recommend to our companies in the Development Fund today? In Asia, do you prefer China over two giants, or rather India? And vice versa: which one would we like to see more here in Maryland, either a Chinese investor or an Indian investor? What is the charm and pain of one and another?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U20	Thank you for a good question. Indeed, in recent years, the Development Fund has dealt quite thoroughly with opening up opportunities for growth in distant markets. We are currently monitoring economic cooperation between Estonia and India. We are trying to find economic opportunities for Estonian companies in India and Indian companies through Estonia to the European market, whether it be aerospace or whatever else, international trade, for example. Do you prefer China or India? I wouldn't go against it that way. Asia is so big that if you want to understand it, you have to go to certain regions, cities, urban countries in a specific way to find new opportunities. I also think that the background work: common educational programmes, cultural links and all kinds of things like this is very important in order to make our entrepreneurs 'new echelon more visible in Asia. Without it, we won't get to know Asia. For example, when we compare ourselves with Finland, we are about ten years behind by discovering Asia. We need to understand Asia for two reasons. First of all, the same Scandinavia, with whom most of our trade goes to Asia. And if we don't understand where our partners are looking, maybe soon we won't be partners anymore. And secondly, it is important that our own companies find unique competitive advantages there. As I said, if we want to be the Baltic Sea attraction centre, we must also have very strong links with other regions of the world. We must have some added value that Helsinki and Stockholm, for example, do not have. It may not be in all areas, but it could be in some areas, because we're just small.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U21	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U22	Thank you. Thank you very much for your presentation, which was truly very airy and all-encompassing! But that's what caused me to wonder if the Development Fund was rather a vision organisation, a competence centre, a'soft methods' institution. What is your relationship with the Estonian players? Are you a venture capital fund for companies in seed and start-up phases?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U23	According to the law, it is these two tasks that have been assigned to us. We need to carry out longer trend studies and analytical monitoring in order to bring together different actors in different areas. They may be general issues, as was the work of the growth vision, but they can also be very specific. I was talking about the export of health services, the implementation of IT in the economy, such as IT in higher education, IT education. We have very specific and more general issues, but we always have to look at a more distant perspective. Often here, other think tanks, especially those who perform custom works, perform short-term analyses, such as law and other short-term analyses. It is our duty to keep an eye on the long term. The other half is the investment side, which is also due to the law. Our house is in this sense with two legs: between them are the same 'pilot initiatives', which we were talking about here were the 'FinanceEstonia', 'MedicineEstonia', the green economy growth programme, the IT Academy. These are initiatives aimed at realising the ideas that emerged from these studies and analyses. For everything to happen in real life. So, on the one hand, monitoring, on the other hand, investment, but in the middle, growth programmes are in order to bring together the knowledge that comes from both the investment side and the monitoring side and, along with others, to initiate new changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U24	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U25	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, thank you, esteemed waitress, for this interesting presentation. But, as we know, in Estonia, administrative-territorial units are municipalities, cities and counties, and they all have their own visions, development plans, strategies, plans, etc. You have also carried out forums that you have called County Vision Days. Would you describe how this cooperation has taken place and what the main problems have been?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U26	Yeah, we've been conducting county vision days. I have personally visited several counties in Põlvamaa, Valgamaa, the week after that, I go to Pärnumaa to meet local entrepreneurs. We've been working our asses off. But now the Development Fund is perhaps the smallest public institution in Estonia with 19 or 20 people. Unfortunately, we can't get anywhere at once. But we will take our time to attend, if that is the subject of the future that we are discussing. I am convinced that the regional centres of Estonia should become stronger, then the sum of the sum will also be stronger in Estonia as a whole. Perhaps, alongside the debate on administrative-territorial arrangements, there should be a debate on what to do to make the regions stronger, it is Võrumaa, Valgamaa, Põlvamaa or Pärnu County.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U27	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You are talking here about Estonia becoming a growth centre, about talent policy and management of human resources. At the beginning of the year, Turku Research Ltd conducted a survey called "The experience of Estonian residents working abroad. Plans for working abroad in the future. " On this basis, 12% of Estonian residents plan to work abroad in the near future, including 4% plan to work abroad and 8% think that they are likely to do so. The more determined plan to work abroad was for those who had already worked abroad once. If we now sum up the numbers of those who are already working abroad or who are planning to work there, we will add our unemployment and hidden unemployment to them, then we will get about 200,000 people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U29	Good questioner, your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U30	Our total human assets are 650000 people, it's 20%...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U31	Good questioner, your time is up! We have one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U32	What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U33	Thank you for that question. If you look at this picture more broadly, there is a survey among young people in the world and you have studied how many people would like to work abroad during their lives, and almost 100% say they would like to. The world has, on the one hand, become so that all people would like to go around the world, here and there. The Estonian question is that this circulation should also go through here so that they want to work in the same way. In other words, I would like those of our own people who have worked outside as experts, because there are some labs there, some companies where they can apply themselves professionally, to have the same opportunity in Estonia at some point. Just because people go out isn't bad in itself. The question is that they would come back and that other similar migrants in the world would come to harness their brain potential in our country. It's a key question. I understand what you are actually referring to with your question. Yeah, the same thing in Finland next door is a buffer for our own labour market. Those people who are still making money out there right now would be here on unemployment benefits. This is part of the free movement of European labour. Of course, our interest is that they come back. There is one such thing that, as the wage level increases under the same conditions of free movement of European labour, this person in Estonia also wants to receive more or less the same amount of salary as he receives in Finland. This means that our economy must inevitably become more complex, because otherwise we simply do not have these highly paid workers and people are working outside. We actually have no other way out than to get more complex, more interesting, more global in the system of vessels connected here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U34	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U35	Dear waitress, The activity report that has been distributed to us says that the Estonian Development Fund is the centre of thought of the Riigikogu. As the CEO of the Development Fund, how do you assess whether the fact that no representative of opposition parties in the Riigikogu belongs to the Council of the Development Fund has made the work of this think centre much more meaningful?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U36	I would not say that this has been a particular obstacle, because substantive cooperation has been at the level of the people, not at the level of the governing bodies. We are also currently organising a seminar on Asia with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for example, on Asian growth, its impact on Estonia and Estonia's interests there. In the near future, I think we will also have a discussion about designing embassies in the 21st century, about what Estonian embassies should be like in different countries. I think we actually have this kind of cooperation with everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U37	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U38	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! You said that you have invested EUR 6.6 million through the fund in various businesses and funds. Can you tell me how many additional jobs this has created and how many jobs in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U39	Thank you for your question. In the first phase, these companies are quite small. GrabCAD, which won the same Seedcamp in London, has gained fame in America and has now included investment, started with two people in our house. So at first, they're all small, but the whole point is that they're working in areas where the business model, if it turns out to be successful, is fast-growing, escalating, that is, the growth of these companies is just ahead. Yes, all these companies have actually created jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U40	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, My question concerns the management of the development of human resources. A reform of higher education is currently underway. What proposals have the Development Fund made for the successful implementation of this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U42	Thank you. We have done a piece of background work in this area on the internationalisation of higher education, which is clearly in the hands of most people in this field in Estonia. The Development Fund has also contributed to the process of preparing the Estonian education strategy. With the people, officials and experts of the Ministry of Education, we have had quite a lot of cooperation in different areas, including the whole IT education. In addition to the economy and foreign policy, foreign economic policy has been the Ministry of Education and the education sector that we have been more involved with, but why not the Ministry of Social Affairs and the social sectors in terms of exports of health services.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U43	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U44	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I am pleased that despite the criticisms of the early days, the development fund has indeed become a venture capital fund supported by the state. What is your substantial cooperation with, for example, the EAS, which I think might be more risky when determining its own business projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U45	Thanks for asking. Cooperation is quite good both in a professional sense and at management level. The Chairman of the Board of the EAS is now also a member of the Board of the Development Fund, so we also have this connection. I agree that there could be the riskiest, but in many ways there will be obstacles to the same bureaucratic regulations that prescribe what needs to be done. But I fully agree that placing euro money in the economy in the next period should be much more risky, more focused around growth areas, so as not to put any money on the market. This issue of how to be more flexible in the next cycle and perhaps to have a greater impact on the development of core areas would be worth debating.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U46	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, thank you for your substantive report! You used rhetoric quite a lot in your speech for talent. Can you explain what this talent is in your mind? What could he look like, and how many talents could Estonia have? What's your target group you're working for?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U48	Thank you. There are different definitions of talent, and these are also given in the same report before you. The very narrow definition is that they are very good people who move the country forward, create new businesses, run the country, are education leaders. Population scientists say that at all 5% of these very sharp pencils are in society. But we are definitely talking about a wider circle of those who are specialists in some of their fields, whatever that area is. We're definitely talking about a wide circle, not just peaks.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U49	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U50	Thank you. I very much liked several of your proposals in this area, in particular, how higher education should be modernised. In this sense, you are strongly different from the other men who have been teaching the members of the Riigikogu several times, who think that half of the boys in Estonia should be trained as welders, the other half to operate the benches, and then happiness will come to our yard. I liked that you mentioned the right number of directions, which we did indeed start in the University of Tartu in the mid-1990s. With the help of the state, we are in a lot of trouble there, because, for example, Master's studies in information management are still more enthusiastic for teaching staff; there is simply no public order for this specialty. But my question concerns your second message. The message remained that the Development Fund is about to come to the Riigikogu with an amendment to the law that a minor amendment is needed. I'm not quite sure, but have you not said before in front of the Riigikogu that you will be coming soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U51	First of all, thank you for the compliment! But I don't think the law should be changed all the time. As long as the law of this development fund can work, it should not be changed. Now there is a purely practical need to change it so that the new investment scheme that we have created, so that the investment capital that the state puts into us is not a cost, but an investment. For this to be an investment in terms of the Maastricht criterion, rather than a cost to the State, it is necessary to build an investment mechanism for which we have created a subsidiary which is licensed by the Financial Supervision Authority and which forms a contractual fund. Now, in order for the state to be able to subscribe to the units of the common fund, this legislative amendment is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U52	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U53	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your very interesting presentation. I was particularly pleased to hear that you highlighted the potential of exports of health and well-being services, which are really very important for our economy and development, to participate in international competition. At the same time, there is a very strong international competition in the export of welfare and health services, also here with our neighbouring countries, Finland, Sweden, Lithuania and Latvia. Our advantages are the availability of a qualified frame, companies have made quite decent investments in this sector, and perhaps relatively low price levels. Our downside is poor transport connections, air and rail problems, etc. What do you think our competitive advantages could still be if we were to be able to compete internationally in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U54	I think, firstly, that there are very different activities in this area. I was talking about health technologies, there is the provision of healthcare across the border, and there are still a lot of opportunities that actually form this 'health centre' together. It is true that it is often a matter of a transport connection that is known that health tourism is about two hours away from air travel. It is good for us that all Scandinavia is ageing and their budgets are under very great pressure. No politician dares say that tomorrow you'll get a worse service than you got yesterday, but there's less money, you can't borrow it. This means that this service must at some point be bought at a border. There are simpler services, such as after-care and care treatment, but there are also more complex procedures. It is known that it is easier to move across the border so-called out of pocket, the services paid by the person himself, and harder those paid by the health insurance fund. But they'll start moving, too. I'm not just talking about Scandinavia, there may be other options here, even the Leningrad region, rehab clinics in northeast Estonia, why not? There are many topics here, and that is why this area wants to be meaningful. "MedicineEstonia" is the reason why the private sector, private investors as well as the state, the Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs, universities and other educational institutions have to put together their heads and think about what really needs to be done. One thing is that if we start developing these areas of growth, there will be a limit to human capital. We need to think in the same way about what this human capital input is like, do we bring more people from somewhere, how much we can train them, etc. You have to deal with both sides.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U55	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U56	Thank you, good waitress. How have you involved Estonian universities in solving problems in the field of energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U57	Thank you. Studies and analyses on energy and the green economy are on the way to the Development Fund today. In the meantime, we have rather dealt with economic issues. But in view of the closure of the Climate and Energy Agency (KENA), this whole thinking tank or research analysis is coming into the development fund. In order to get the division of labour in place, we plan to make clear who is doing, wants to do and is planning to do in Estonia and what are Estonia's needs for further research and analysis. Neither the Development Fund nor universities can do all things and they do not have to. We need to understand who is doing what to make this area really more effective in Estonia. There is a demand for such complex research. The future of energy is connected with urbanisation, transport, urban planning. Obviously, these will be the kind of complex monitoring where the Development Fund can provide its added value first and foremost, rather than highly technology-specific, which is rather the work of academics.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U58	Kalev Lillo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U59	Thank you. Good waitress! The entire chapter of the report is entitled 'Talent policy is a key issue for economic development'. As a chamber of thought in the Riigikogu, can you also give us some advice that we can take right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U60	Thank you. Perhaps a direct advice is also to talk about updating and updating the content of education throughout this reform of the educational system. But second, I'm telling you, this talent monitoring is what we're about to start. We will make sometime in November the first small forum for bringing the best experiences of the world to which you are invited, and we will try to find out by summer what exactly should be done in Estonia in this area in about ten months or, if we do, faster. It is true to read the coalition agreement that, on the one hand, we want to be international students and, on the other hand, we want to be nationalists and put on a grass hat. In order to strike a balance between these issues, the various institutions that have different goals must keep Estonia safe, others must bring talent and thirds must bring talent together at a single table and find a reasonable medium. Because everyone is doing their thing right, the question is that Estonia also has some general thoughts and interests. I think that if we get a greater consensus on the migration of talented people in the municipality of talent, then we have done enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U61	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The late friend Ants Paju often stressed that the measure of good thought was an act. I, too, am impressed with you and my colleagues about how many beautiful thoughts we have, but I start to worry when I think about how these thoughts can make good thoughts so that they can become actions. Perhaps we should focus more on it and deal with it in order to shape these beautiful thoughts into good thoughts? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U63	I agree that any activity has a planning phase and a phase of action. As far as the Development Fund is concerned, on the one hand, we are setting up plans with monitoring, we are looking at what happens in the world, on the other hand, we are creating real new Estonian companies with our investments. And these pilot initiatives, which were mentioned, are to create a new development leap in the wider areas, also in terms of jobs. We will be very careful to make sure that the things that we have reached do somehow come to life. The other way around, however, is that the Development Fund cannot carry out all things on its own. We can't go in to replace the country. Many of our thoughts must become, as others do, and monitoring is such a tool for joint learning. For example, IT monitoring became the foundation of information technology, most of the content of its strategy. So it really is that the thoughts we are reaching should reach a wider circle, not just our own pilot initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U64	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U65	Thank you. Thank you also for your meaningful presentation! My question is broader. It is very good that, in the form of a development fund, we have one competence centre that monitors and shows companies and all of us who care what opportunities are and in which direction we could go. But how can the results of this work be realised even better at company level? It may be known that such a unit exists and that something is done somewhere, but how can this activity benefit even more in practical terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U66	Thank you. I think the answer here is very varied. But perhaps the most important thing is the example of the same start-up companies, how they have tried to go into the world in different areas of business, what are the failures that have occurred, and what are the ways in which the world can succeed. These investments are, in many ways, a model for others, which works and does not work. That's maybe one thing. Secondly, they are so-called sector-specific monitoring, in which the parties involved are working together. We can feed this discussion with these studies and trends from the outside. But it is still the debate of the same group that is being held in the field. Thirdly, these are the growing areas I was talking about. That healthcare exports are health-related, private practice, all kinds of institutions, technology and IT companies. It is true that monitoring is subject-specific and investments are the ones that set an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U67	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would like to continue this start-up issue, both from the point of view of what the Development Fund has invested in and more generally from the point of view. As far as I am concerned and heard, one of the goals of a very large number of start-up companies is to grow to a certain level, then sell yourself to a large company, whether Google, Yahoo or whoever, and then, depending on how big dividends come, live calmly on or start a new start-up." Is this the kind of life cycle that is inevitable and leads these successful companies from Estonia to somewhere in Silicon Valley? Do we have to accept this, or should we do something to keep the investments here, and these companies will continue to evolve here? Or is that the way we grow them here to a certain level and then they go away?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U69	Thank you for that question. I am pleased to note that you have an expert in this area, in the form of Andrei Korobenik, in the Chamber. But yes, it's part of the inevitable cycle. These are global companies. Nothing will happen if this company is sold. The same Skype is owned by Microsoft by the end of the day, but he's in exactly the form he's been here for a while. Sten Tamkivi would love to grow it here more if he had people to take. Perhaps, then, this wise business will be preserved just as much as we have good people. The fact that part of the business function of start-up companies, such as the sales side, is somewhere in London, Shanghai or Silicon Valley, is inevitable. Sales are usually where the customer is. But development and thought work remain in Estonia on very many occasions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U70	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U71	Thank you, good Chairman. Thank you, good speaker. I am looking here at page 41 of the book introducing the Development Fund, which really speaks of a very cumbersome and complex process of introducing an external specialist to a third country. One way or another, you're just starting to monitor the standards or boundaries of the talent hunt. What would you recommend to the Riigikogu? What are the first steps to make this very complex migration process easier? At the same time, as you said yourself, we must not forget this lawn hat fit thing. What could these first steps be?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U72	On the one hand, as an expert organization, I wouldn't want to shoot off my hip. If we do this monitoring, the picture will be clearer. But the other way around, I think we can take a relatively narrow field and try out what the problems are. Take, for example, the subject of IT higher education. If we took 100 students, 200 students, 300 students and made such an interdisciplinary research center, we'd be happy to come to the table with the problems of getting these students here, their visas, and so on, bringing international professors here. If we have one higher concentration of this type of activity somewhere, then these few failures will start to come out, and we can work together on the process. In this sense, we need one good pilot project, which is enough to make mistakes, and we can make corrections on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U73	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Thank you for this swell presentation. It must be noted, however, that this momentum stays here in the Tallinn and Tallinn regions, and dynamic development in rural areas remains quite small. You said you were going around the counties and you've been to Põlva and Võru, for example. Have you also left any good ideas on how to make these centres stronger, and they have infected the region's entrepreneurs, people? Do you have any tangible examples that have changed because of your proposals and your good ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U75	Thank you. Whether this has worked should ask the people who have received this help there, some of them are also in the Riigikogu. I wouldn't say that this waking life is Tallinn-centred. A week ago, Tartu was a bicycle marathon, and I think 5,000 people drove to a bicycle marathon in Otepää. What I want to say is that different regions have completely their own niches in which they should develop themselves further. Yes, I hope it will help you to walk, and if you are called back and these invitations come more than what time goes on, then that will do you good. But the role of the development fund as a brain trust is actually to wake up, throw ideas on the table. How many of them are picked up is done by the pickers. I guess that's why we're also called on to talk more about the long-distance trends and opportunities that some company might be able to find out about in the third or fourth year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U76	Honourable waitress! I thank you very much for your presentation and also for your answers. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U78	I open negotiations and ask Urve Palo, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U79	Mr President, a maximum time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U80	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, Managing the country's economic processes is not a primitive mechanism with small links, as we have just heard about the presentation. In reality, there are many connections, and it is rather a complex organism that can be compared to a person. The human organism, like the economy, is a whole body in all its complexity. Acquiring to treat one disease, whether due to a false diagnosis or using the wrong medicine or too high doses, we may cause irreparable damage to the whole human body instead of improving health, and ultimately cause a new, more acute attack. In this regard, it is important that those responsible for the treatment plan, whether in the case of the human body, doctors or the government speaking about the economy of the country, have strategic sensitivity, i.e. the ability to anticipate opportunities and risks. Looking at the behaviour of our government in recent years, when the boom at a time when it would have been the government's job to cool the economy, the state was instead heating up the heat with additional investments in economic growth and contributing to price increases in competition with the private sector. When the economy showed the first signs of cooling, and the experts warned of the coming crisis, our Prime Minister said that if it was a crisis, it was only in this crisis that he would want to live. No measures were taken to alleviate the recession. In contrast to what our main export partners Finland and Sweden did, for example, the Estonian state pulled the brake. The fall in the Estonian economy and the rise in unemployment were one of the biggest in Europe, repeating more than our northern neighbours. Behavior, where reserves are collected in good times and used in bad times, is called a countercyclical economy. Unfortunately, our government has acted the other way around. An obvious example of behaviour contrary to economic logic is even an increase in VAT. Will one company increase the price of its products as the economy cools down and as turnover falls? No! But our government also acted the other way round here and, contrary to economic logic, raised 2% VAT, helping the economy to cool even further. In order to eliminate planned investments, cut all areas with a single stick or raise taxes, there is no need for special skills. A middle school graduate could do that. It is more difficult to see links and perspectives, to mobilise resources quickly and flexibly in areas that bring long-term success to the country. The ability to recognise these areas is what helps to ensure the growth of our economies and gives us a competitive advantage over other countries. The amount of revenue lost to the state should be assessed because, in difficult times, the state did not see its role in boosting the economy and helping people. I am thinking here of the missed opportunity to invest in infrastructure development during the period of recession, as well as of the fact that in no way can the unemployment fund be considered normal in a situation where only 1/3 of those on account receive compensation from the unemployment fund. Then why pay insurance if it doesn't help in a situation where help is needed? The country's decisions are not like buying a pie, where if I choose wrong, I just buy another stuffed pie. State policy has long-term effects and consequences that can lead to irreparable losses. The statement from earlier reports from the Development Fund is that most organisations die not because they do the wrong things, but because they do the right things for too long. Here you can bring a parallel to the Estonian state. We are trying stubbornly to hold on to the principles of tax, economic, educational and regional policy that fit Estonia during the first decade of regaining independence, without going into the debate that time has gone on and what has worked in the past will not be a success today. Returning to the fact that the economy is a complex organism with many interdependencies, I would point out the basic organ whose success depends on the success of the whole organism. The heart of the country's success is man. The economy is not developing in its own right, the economy can only be promoted by people, starting with how many people are, what their skills and abilities are, until they are in good health and how long the years of active life will be. Therefore, the Social Democrats are convinced that, when it comes to economic policy and economic promotion, it is important that the focus of the state is on people to see trees behind the forest. What is Estonian family, education, health and regional policy depends on Estonia's longer-term performance and economic success. Much is said that economic development will ensure growth in general well-being, including employment and the purchasing power of the population, good education and health care, and will hamper emigration. Agreed. But as I said, the economy is not developing in itself, apart from the rest of the world. One must help the other. The state's contribution to people, their education and health must be seen as an investment that contributes to economic growth. It is also beneficial for every entrepreneur to be able to operate in an environment of dignity, good skills and purchasing power. In its presentation, the Development Fund highlights the fact that the fight for talent is tightening everywhere and it is very difficult to remain competitive that we need a comprehensive talent policy. They say we can't just rely on good education and good, bright heads. Agreed. However, I would point out that before we start hunting talent elsewhere, we must learn to appreciate our talents. I mean people who already live in Estonia. Today's socio-economic environment, however, favours the departure of talent rather than coming here. According to the recently published Human Development Report, the future of themselves and their children in Estonia is not seen by nearly 100,000 Estonians and 400000 say that they are not sure. What do we do to attract new talent if the existing ones don't want to stay here? The reason for our small wages is often low productivity per capita. It is true that on average productivity in Estonia is several times lower than in Finland, for example. But the interesting thing is that when an Estonian travels 80 kilometres north to work, its productivity is suddenly no longer low. Why? Is there a reason for the employees, or are there reasons elsewhere, in management decisions? Currently, 80% of exporting companies in Estonia are held by foreign investors. They decide what is being produced in this country, whether they are high-value-added products, which also brings higher wages and so-called more money remains in the country of production, or whether they focus more on cheap labour and energy-intensive production. We need to start doing something significantly different. To grow faster, we need to make different decisions than yesterday. In the Estonian economic and social environment, something is fundamentally wrong. Whether it is a lack of education, a weak infrastructure, a poor transport connection within and outside the world, an environment of low tolerance, or all of it, but in the old ways, we will no longer compete and people will not be kept in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U82	Thank you. I ask for a speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kalvo, representative of the Estonian Central Party faction! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U83	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This year's report from the Development Fund, like its previous reports, deals with problems that we have encountered in one way or the other, but which have not been seriously discussed among ourselves. It has probably not been discussed because despite what is happening around us in the world, a large part of us hopes that we have nothing to do to make things better by ourselves. It is true that the development of the last year has even provided a apparent basis for this; Estonia's economic growth has been the fastest in the European Union for the last few quarters. However, I think that we have no reason to be satisfied with ourselves, but we should start discussing Estonia's future problems much more intensively with the Development Fund. And not only to discuss the problems that the Development Fund has raised, but also to be more active and to propose to the Development Fund that one problem or another be addressed. Unfortunately, there's nothing new under the sun. The same calls were made a year ago, but unfortunately it cannot be observed that the interest of Riigikogu committees in cooperating with the Development Fund has increased during the year. We have lost one year, and now, if we look at how many committee presidents there are now in this Chamber, perhaps none, then we will probably lose them for years to come. Here we know very well that the resources available to the Development Fund, both in money and in people, are very small and cannot deal with everything. However, in my opinion, the Development Fund has demonstrated itself well as an organiser of thought, an organiser who has, on many occasions, been able to overcome the institutional barriers and organise cooperation between institutions. I think that we should make better use of this capacity in the future and help the Development Fund to set the direction of its studies in such a way that they are better targeted than they have been so far to address key issues. But now to this report. It addresses the problems of the world economy in a number of ways in the next 10 to 15 years, with a more detailed focus on the growth of Asia and its meaning for Estonia. More specific areas include the green economy and IT health, i.e. IT in the field of health. However, it is more satisfying that the Development Fund has considered it appropriate to include the issue of our talent policy and governance model in the report. A lot has been said about both, the campaign "Talents home!", a study of Estonian governance was commissioned from the OECD for a lot of money, but as it seems, things are going their way and there is no visible force that would or could initiate and implement changes. However, it is quite obvious that when this crisis comes to an end, the world will no longer be what it was before the crisis. Talents and education have been spoken about in Estonia and also in this hall for over two decades, but this has been more of a shadow box than the recognition of the talent problem and the search for solutions to it. The value of the talent part of the report is not so much that it offers a viable solution to the talent problem, but that it is quite clear and complex about the scale and urgency of the problem and also that we have no reason to hope that things can succeed in our own favor. The problems between talent, education and the economy and the possibilities for resolving them are, of course, most directly linked to our model of governance. So far, Estonia has overwhelmingly dominated the view that stability in any area is a pledge of our success, the only possible exception has been to increase indirect taxes and reduce income tax. It is worth remembering that somewhere there is a limit where stability becomes stagnation, leading to governance that cannot respond to the moment, even less to the challenges of the future, and ultimately means lagging behind others in development. Involvement with development is not easy. Firstly, it requires the ability to see things the way they are and the unwillingness to hide from one or a few beautiful brand economic indicators; secondly, involvement requires statesmanship, the ability to initiate the necessary changes and take risks. It is quite natural that Estonia should not see its future merely in attracting cheap outsourcing from Scandinavia. We must also try to do something competitive ourselves. Neither I nor anyone else knows whether the green economy and IT health directions referred to by the Development Fund are the ones where Estonia manages to achieve a breakthrough, but they are, to some extent, developed ideas that would be worth moving forward in the absence of better ideas. And here, most of all, we need to get rid of the idea that no viable centre of progress in the world was born in itself, without the participation of the state in one form or another. We need to understand that our understanding of the country's role in the economy is primitive, is only suitable for a country that remains forever in the status of a developing country and not for Estonia that is reaching out to developed countries, because in the countries at the forefront of development, some of the risks to the future are those that no profit-seeking company can bear. This is why national development programmes have developed and, in particular, in emerging countries, so much. To sum up, the report is interesting and logically structured, but there is a rather strong self-censorship, the use of soft formulas in places that need to be made clearer. At times, it even seemed that more could be read between the lines than in printed text. Such a style may be understood, but as long as we do not get used to our problems or can't speak openly or write, there will be no necessary changes to our rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-22_U84	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Dear colleagues, this point is closed. Dear guests, representatives of the Honourable Development Fund, I sincerely thank you for today's debate and, of course, for the work you have done over the year. Power and good luck to you! I thank my fellow Members for their questions and for the round of negotiations. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 11.23 a.m.
