ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! Good morning. We will begin the session of the third working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. There's no call. In that case, we'll conduct a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U2	Let us begin the debate on today's agenda items. The first item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Ensureing compliance with the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments'. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu 90, which is a draft decision "Ensureing compliance with the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement for the European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments," on 27 September and yesterday, even at two sessions on 28 September. The meetings were also attended by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, advisers of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Ministry of Finance and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. I would like to give a brief overview of the debate at the meeting on 27 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U4	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows! Today, on Michael's Day, we are discussing a very important draft decision, yet there is a lot of noise in the Chamber. I'm asking you to keep your voice down so we can listen to the waitress! Please respect him!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U5	The Commission had already examined the opinions of the Chancellor of Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the Commission had developed the view that the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must necessarily be taken as a basis and that the draft decision should be clarified in such a way as to minimise legal risks. We had a longer discussion on whether there could be a reference to the State Budget Act in the preamble to the decision. It was proposed by the Ministry of Finance. The debate focused very much on what questions would be discussed in the Riigikogu plenary if this framework agreement was implemented, and what issues would be the competence of the European Union Affairs Committee. The Commission came up with the view that it is not possible to discuss each programme in the plenary session of the Riigikogu. This mandate must be shared with the European Union Affairs Commission. Often, aid programmes still have sub-programmes, and in the practice of the European Union's decision-making process this is the subject of the Council of Finance Ministers of the European Union. As you know, the finance ministers of the European Union recently meet on weekends with one-day notice. The process has therefore become very operational. We began to realise in the Commission that the new programmes, the new countries that are joining or in need of assistance, should certainly be the subject of the plenary debate. At this point, I would stress that the Riigikogu must have control over everything relating to guarantees. He must have all relevant information and intervention. But the question is what role the Committee on European Union Affairs will play and what role this House will play. It was also stressed that programmes may not be exclusively national. There are different programmes for buying bonds, bank recapitalisation programmes, etc. There was also a debate on what this guarantee means. Are 1.9 billion ceilings or other guarantees available? There was a longer discussion on this subject. The Commission has nevertheless summarised the matter in such a way that the Riigikogu gives a guarantee of the amount stipulated in the decision. The Commission also wanted certainty on this point, I do not think it is wrong to say that we have reached a consensus that the procedure of the Estonian Parliament should not lead to the sinking of this whole EFSF. That's what the opinions sounded like. There was a debate on matters of constitutional law, the interpretation of the Constitution. One of the proposals was that perhaps it would be possible to delimit competence in a way that is in line with the articles of the framework agreement. For example, Article 10 of the Framework Agreement sets out the issues that the EFSF will decide regardless of the size of each country's participation, but requires a majority of one vote. We were wondering if we could draw a line from here. In conclusion to the meeting of 27 September, the chairman of the committee summarised the discussion in such a way that the Commission has a clear conviction: the Riigikogu must first proceed to the end of the draft law supplementing the basic state budget law. This is the basis for this decision. So first 95 SE and then 90 OE. The Commission also came up with the idea that we need to keep up the pace, it is not right to delay unduly. And certainly the provisions of the decision must be those which are indisputably compatible with the Constitution and other laws. The questions asked by the Chancellor of Justice must be answered. Finally, the chairman of the committee asked all the political groups involved to write down their'red lines'. The opinion of the IRL was that the draft decision had to be such that the Chancellor of Justice had no reason to contest it. It shall also be at least 51 votes in favour. The opinion was further expressed that "big decisions" should fall within the remit of the Riigikogu's plenary session, less large decisions should be taken by the government, together with the European Union Affairs Commission. The red lines of the Socialists were briefly as follows: The adoption of Bill 95, which is a draft supplement to the basic law of the state budget, is a prerequisite for this whole thing, it must be done before it is done, and the general principle concerning the wording of the provisions of the State Budget Act, is that the conservative line that exists in that law must be maintained. Guarantee issues may be included in the draft decision, but may also be provided through the RES. It was agreed that major decisions would be taken in plenary and that a clear line should be drawn between the decisions of the House and those of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Reform Party announced that it would agree with the Social Democrats on draft 95. They also believe that at least 51 votes in favour should be respected, but it would be arbitrary to distinguish between large and small responsibilities. Programmes and agreements do not just concern the new countries; there are many decisions that need such operational intervention, for which the competence of the Committee on European Union Affairs is well enough. The Centre Party has defined its paths in such a way that they oppose the draft. We continued the debate yesterday morning at the sitting. Unfortunately, Question Time came, and part of the committee left the Question Time, but since we also had the Chancellor of Justice with other officials, we wanted to make the most of this opportunity and we continued the debate in an informal form. The debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs continued this evening. In short, I would like to sum it up by naming the principles that we agreed on last night in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There is no distribution of the final text here. Firstly, the draft decision must set out the time limits for the guarantee. It could be formulated in such a way that they will be granted from the entry into force of this Decision until the end of the EFSF. Secondly, the plenary of the Riigikogu confirms new agreements between the Member State and the Commission, i.e. Memoranda of Understanding, or new programmes of beneficiary countries. Thirdly, the Commission for European Union Affairs will receive draft amendments to the memoranda and draft memoranda aimed at providing preventive funds, credit limits, purchase of bonds or recapitalisation of banks in order to give its opinion. Fourthly, when it comes to urgent matters and the European Union Affairs Commission is somehow unable to give an opinion to the government, the government still gives a position within the European Union within the agreed deadline and informs the European Union Affairs Commission. Fifthly, the plenary session must also discuss issues relating to the amendment of the framework agreement if they affect the terms of the guarantee. Sixthly, the draft decision should enter into force at the same time as the Act supplementing the State Budget Act enters into force. The Commission decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be interrupted and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 14 p.m. on 29 September. This decision was made by consensus. And I am sorry, I forgot to say that the Commission also discussed the amendments received by the deadline. There were five of them: one from the Centre Party Group and four from Igor Gräzin, a member of the Riigikogu. You have them, too. The amendments were not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U6	Thank you very much, good waitress. There are some questions for you. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U7	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Chairman of the Commission! I have a question for you. Your party Reform Party constantly asks the question whether the matter has been discussed with stakeholders, whether experts have been involved, whether public opinion has been studied. The same was true yesterday in this Chamber when it was said that Easter Day was to be the second holiday of the State. Now I ask whether there was a discussion in the committee about what the Estonian people think of this matter. Have you spoken to Eurosceptics, for example? In your own group, there are Eurosceptics, what do they think? And has there been a public opinion study? We know that the Bundestag is dealing with the same issue today. But in Germany, a public survey has been carried out, the results of which say that three Germans out of four are against this aid package. I have a question: can you tell me how many Estonians are in favour of this aid package and how many are against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U8	Honourable questioner! You don't think you're the only one with people. Members of the Reform Party also communicate with a large number of people all over Estonia. But now, if we go to the subject we should be dealing with, that is to say, these provisions, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed the draft with a large number of lawyers, lawyers of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, lawyers of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, lawyers of the Ministry of Finance. This list is not exhaustive. The Committee on Finance has involved a large number of highly qualified legal, economic and financial professionals in the process. There's really no need to worry about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U9	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U10	Thank you. Good President and good waitress! I have a simple question. And since I know you like numbers, I also know that it's easy for you to answer that as well. To quote the Prime Minister, Estonia always looks the best in Europe. This is true, especially given the size of Estonia's participation in the EFSF and the size of our gross domestic product. I'll get some numbers. Estonia's share in this is uncompetitively the largest of 13% of GDP. For example, Luxembourg's share is only 4.4% of GDP, Finland 7.3%, Germany 8.2%. Can you justify why the Estonian gold medal and enthusiasm in this area are caused?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U11	I will respond very briefly: the principle of this distribution is analogous to the key to the distribution of the European Central Bank's participation and depends on the number of people and on gross domestic product. This key is the formula that applies in the same way to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U12	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U13	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I can help you. I was a little embarrassed to hear that you do not know how much the Estonian people support it and how much not. According to a postman's poll, 80% of the people are against it. At the same time, you said that we had to keep up the pace and that this was urgent. We have three plenary sittings here today and several Commission sittings. Why didn't we start this thing earlier so people would know more about it? Or was it supposed to keep it a secret? Let's do this quick, quick, fast, and we're done. Why has it gone at such a rate that we have more questions than answers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U14	Perhaps the answers you received at first reading, when the principles of the draft were really discussed, were not suitable for you. Can't help it. Today we are discussing specific provisions. In the Commission, we did not dissect it yesterday or the day before, who is responsible for the fact that the discussions did not start earlier. The Reform Party discussed this issue intensively already during the spring session. We invited representatives of the Eesti Pank Group, invited representatives of the Economic and Financial Committee, i.e. IFC, and invited various specialists. The European Union Affairs Commission addressed the issue of a wider rescue mechanism for the debt crisis in the euro area all summer and the issue of the fund more narrowly. The Minister of Finance even said the dates on which the Framework Agreement on the Fund was completed as a result of the consensus of the Member States of the European Union. If that answer didn't work for you, I can't help it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U15	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I think there's been some confusion. You spoke with great enthusiasm about what was said in the committee and the views that maybe the Riigikogu should discuss new members of the relief programme. But when I look at the draft submitted for today's reading, it says that all of this would be done like the Euro Affairs Commission. Are we now discussing the draft that has been put on the table for our second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U17	Yes, of course, this is the original text. I was talking about the basic principle, I wasn't talking about the specific new wording of the draft. If you had been present at the hearing tonight, perhaps you would have understood it better.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U18	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U19	Thank you, honored performer. Today we are talking about the Framework Agreement for the European Financial Stability Fund and we assume that Estonia will decide to join it. My question is practical. There are now two customers, two countries, Greece is not yet. If he does, what is the procedure? What are the contexts of this memorandum? And what are the frameworks for this memorandum if the next customer is added and we are already a full member of this fund? How thorough is that? Is that very general?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U20	Thank you, very good question! As I said, in this case it is a new memorandum and the understanding is that this should be discussed in plenary. But I can say so much that I've seen these memos. These are quite substantial documents which set specific conditions for the beneficiary country, starting with the fiscal framework, debt obligations and debt reduction targets. They specifically mention the economic programme, austerity measures, such as how many officials in the public sector need to be concentrated. They can be very detailed. It is, of course, interesting material, but I warn you that these memoranda are well-informed and very specific, focused on public finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U21	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! I have the same question, but on the other hand. Why has the Riigikogu been removed from the discussion of these issues in your draft? These amounts, however, concern quite a percentage of our budget, and the Riigikogu should decide to use such large amounts, not just the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U23	Thank you. If you had listened carefully, you would know that I have said that the basic principles agreed upon by the Committee on Monetary Affairs have to amend this text so that competences can be precisely set out in the new version.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U24	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The way we have dealt with this bill in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is without criticism. Last night it became clear that the framework agreement itself will live its life and we in the Riigikogu will only confirm the start, end, amount and interest of the fund guarantee. Only decimal adjustments remain to be made by ELAK. Yesterday, Taavi Rõivas, President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, was also surprised by this, who said that, according to his assessment, we must also endorse this framework agreement. Lawyers explained that they also send a written form and an explanation as to why the Riigikogu did not approve. Please read the letter from the lawyers for the sake of the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U26	Thank you for your question. In fact, your same question was answered yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The framework agreement of the Fund is indeed the kind of document that may even determine whether the Fund has three, four or five directors. The internal affairs of the Fund are also set out there. Changes concerning the guarantee, of course, issues affecting the guarantee must be examined by the Riigikogu. I think you'll be able to study this document on your own. I'm afraid I don't have it here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U27	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would have a lot of questions, but I ask you this: could you mention three reasons why we should not adopt this bill? After all, things always have pros and cons. Talk like a specialist, why shouldn't we? Is that what you discussed in the Commission? It can't be that everything is fine and everything works only in the direction that we accept. Why shouldn't I take it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U29	To save time and avoid similar issues, I repeat: we are discussing provisions, not general principles. I'd answer you like this. I'm sure you've read the state budgets, this year's and last year's. Look at how much investment we have! Hospitals' investments come from European Union funds, the main part of road construction comes from European Union funds. A large part of the investment is European Union money, which we receive as non-repayable aid. The European Union is now asking us for help: we are facing a problem, come help, help guarantee! Italy guarantees 136 billion, our guarantee is 2 billion. Should Estonia tell the European Union to see for yourself how you are doing? In fact, if you imagine the theoretical possibility that this guarantee should materialise, which I do not consider likely to have in my current knowledge, even in this case, we will get more help from the European Union than we are now giving guarantees. But once again: today we are talking about the provisions of the draft and in the Commission we discussed the general principles of the decision on 26 September. We've already briefed them in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U30	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Minister of Finance, but unfortunately I did not receive the answer, which is a public limited company registered in Luxembourg. In this connection, I would like to ask you: is our country represented in this business enterprise or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U32	We did not address this issue in the Commission. The Minister of Finance replied that he had not seen the company's office either. But if it's important, we can take a commission out there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U33	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U34	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! I have a question for you. I heard a controversial story again, and I'm reading it in the media. You are talking about the fact that we have received subsidies from the European Union, but the European Union and the eurozone are not the same. When I talk to ordinary people and when I read our media, I see that our people, our taxpayers, do not understand exactly what is happening. The signals that come from this Riigikogu hall are often contradictory to each other. Do you share Mr. Ligi's view that people who oppose it are morons? Why don't we do something here that's against our taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U35	I suggest that if you speak to voters, do not pick out arbitrary details and do not interpret them according to your own understanding. Try to read the verbatim of Jürgen Ligi's story again. I believe you'll get a lot of valuable information from there that will help you communicate with people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U36	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U37	Thank you. Dear waitress, You did not want to answer my colleague Leng, and I am sorry for that. I've always thought you were a smart person. But perhaps you did not understand the question, so I will repeat the question and expect a specific answer to it. Has a public opinion survey been carried out on this issue, and if so, how many percent of Estonians oppose this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U38	Thank you for your question. I would still stick to the issues we addressed in the Commission. We did not have time to discuss this issue in the Commission. We had a lot of legal and substantive issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U39	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U40	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! You said that because of our membership of the euro area, we will receive so much support from the European Union. I ask: do Latvians, for example, receive European Union subsidies in a different way than for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U41	Latvia is a good example, if you have already come up with it. Latvia was in serious difficulties during the crisis and needed international assistance. And it worked, the state is starting to get its finances and the whole economy back on track. Latvia won the time, a situation in which it was not possible to borrow money from the financial markets at a reasonable price. Other countries came to help, provided a loan at normal interest rates, and the aid worked. And I dare to assure you that this money will be returned beautifully from the Latvian state to the lenders.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U42	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm asking for clarity. You say that we must be grateful to the European Union because we have received a great deal of funding for roads, hospitals and the education system, as well as other investments. But, to my knowledge, they have come because we are a member of the European Union and not because we are a member of the euro area. But maybe I'm wrong, and that's what my question is. Have the investments or subsidies that you have talked about, and for which we must be grateful, come thanks to being a member of the euro area or because we are a member of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U44	When we entered the European Union, we committed ourselves to joining the euro zone, and we have fulfilled this commitment beautifully. Today I am even more convinced that this was the right path to take, and I am not going to describe here how much we have achieved both in economic terms and in terms of security.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U45	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Help me, please, and help me explain! You're saying that the second reading is underway and that at first reading we talked about principles. In fact, you started by saying that the Commission was talking about basic principles, how this bill needs to be amended, and now we still have an old version. Why could the Commission not or did not want to make concrete proposals on what this content looks like at second reading? Why didn't you make specific proposals and talk about some kind of principle? At second reading, they should be written and included in the draft. Why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U47	As you know, before the Commission formulated these principles, we had already decided to interrupt the second reading. There have been very good reasons for this. But don't worry, you'll get those texts today. The Committee on Finance will meet today at 2:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U48	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague! You said that you did not consider the guarantee likely to materialise. However, the Minister for Finance notes that once a guarantee has been given, it must be taken into account that it is going to be realised. There's a certain contradiction here. You are a good specialist, please explain what you rely on to argue that the guarantee is not likely to materialise.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U50	Regardless of what kind of specialist I am, I have the right to assess the likelihood of an event occurring. However, I agree with you that a guarantee is a guarantee that can materialise and not materialise. The support programmes so far have justified themselves. From Latvia I spoke, Portugal and Ireland are the following examples where the aid programmes have worked. Countries have won time and achieved an improvement in their solvency, so now it seems that they are able to repay their debts. But really, the guarantee is a guarantee. Yes, I agree that it may come true, but it may not come true.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U51	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We have a second-reading draft that is fundamentally different from what was said yesterday in the Commission. You've already talked about the reasons why this is so. Please repeat the new principles that the Commission allegedly agreed on yesterday. In which cases must the Government of the Republic come before the plenary session of Parliament, in which cases is the Government of the Republic obliged to come before the Committee on European Union Affairs for a position, and in which cases is the Government of the Republic entitled to take decisions in the light of the draft 90?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U53	Honourable questioner! I do not think it is appropriate to repeat what I have already said. You can use a verbogram to do this. But please do not worry, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will also be able to formulate these principles in terms of provisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U54	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I agree that we are getting quite a help from the European Union. If we take our annual budget, compared to that, it will be about 17%, if I am not mistaken. It's practically our investment program. Of course, Luxembourg was a very good example, but their budget is nearly three times larger than ours and our population three times smaller. Yesterday, Mr Barroso outlined a large programme that must be carried out by the European Union, including in budgetary policy. Please tell me, what is the future of our small budget in the face of such great burdens and in the face of so many conditions set by Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U56	Honourable questioner! Mr Barroso's presentation had not yet been published at the time the Commission held its meeting. So we didn't discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U57	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U58	Thank you. I would like to continue to say to our recent exchange that what Mr Ligi said he said in reply to my question, so I do not need to read the verbatim. I would remind you that Mr. Ligi labeled the Nightshade journalists as morons. This page has a circulation of 52000 and a readership of about 150,000 Estonians. My question is this: if 80% of the people of Estonia oppose this bill, can you tell me, as a politician, where the line from which real democracy mechanisms should start to work must run, so that we still take the will of our people into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U59	Thank you for your question. I don't agree with you. I don't think these figures are true.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U60	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My colleagues from the Centre Party in the Committee on Monetary Affairs said that the date of entry into force of this decision is intended to change the date on which this reading was discontinued after the draft. This should enter into force with another law, the draft of which is currently pending and which concerns the addition of the State Budget Act. Tell me, please, what is the reason for this change? When should this second law come into force, and what happens, for example, if the President decides not to declare this second law? Do you have any sort of contingency plan, or do you already have an agreement with the president that the law, the bill of which bears number 95, will be declared? After all, this brings about the entry into force of this Decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U62	We have an understanding that the decision could enter into force at the same time as the amendment to the RES, the State Budget Act, comes into force. If this law has not entered into force, the draft decision cannot enter into force either. Very simple! There shouldn't be anything complicated here. An experienced member of the Riigikogu should understand this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U63	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I absolutely agree that the principle of solidarity is an important principle within the European Union and, of course, throughout the world. On the same principle, this principle should be applied. If you use sports terms, you have received a very high prize as Minister of Finance, you have been highly valued. Perhaps you should express solidarity by going to some countries to advise on how to get public finances right. My question is: did the Commission also discuss any other alternative ways of expressing solidarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U65	We focused in the Commission on a specific draft. If we had gotten the subject really wide, we'd be discussing it till Christmas. But that's a good question for you, of course. We certainly have the opportunity to give valuable advice despite our small size, and I think it is very important to show solidarity in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U66	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U67	Thank you. Good waitress! It is clear that Estonia is the poorest in this supporter's club than the living standards of the people. We are taking our salaries and pensions, they are many times lower than in other euro area countries, also in those countries that we are going to help. I also have the question of whether alternatives to the EFSF have been considered, such as the first aid package, for which countries that are financially able to do so are supported under bilateral agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U68	Once again, I would like to point out that we discussed the provisions of a specific draft in a very concentrated manner in the Commission. We can still hold these major debates. We have kept them in the Committee on European Union Affairs all summer and also outside the Commission; we will keep them. Really, try to understand that we in the Commission focused on the task we are currently working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U69	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U70	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! It is certainly possible to save some countries with this Stability Pact, but as an economic person, you know and perceive that there are countries that will certainly not be saved by this pact. Their path of salvation can only be to extinguish debts. Are you excluding Estonian taxpayers' money from eraseing debts from those countries that are three, four, five times more wealthy than Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U71	I really cannot widen this debate right now. We are discussing the provisions of the draft decision 90. We can hold this debate separately, we can meet both in the Commission and outside the Commission and discuss these issues. But I have a proposal to focus today on the main work that we have to do right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U72	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U73	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I don't really agree with you. In my opinion, the issue is so important that we should still dissect the whole picture and look at it as one of the big questions that we need to answer together today. But here's my question. As a former Minister of Finance and as a representative of the current Commission, you can certainly say that if the guarantee were to be realised, you would not believe that, I believe, what are the three lines in the budget of our small country will it be? Give three examples of the areas in which we will find this money. Are they pensions, are they educational costs, are they defense costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U74	As an experienced member of the Riigikogu, you know very well that I cannot answer that question. You're asking me about a budget for x years, where there should be some kind of money. It's impossible to answer that right now. However, I can tell you more generally that our financial situation is much better than that of most guaranteeing countries. There are some categorical allegations that I don't want to give up right now. Yes, I will stick to what I said: the guarantee may materialise, may not materialise. As far as we know now, the probability of realization is not high, if not to say that it is of little importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U75	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We are facing approval of guarantees. They amount to EUR 2 billion. Let us imagine that the worst will happen and that we will have to realise these guarantees in the near future. This means that this decision will have a major impact on our country's economy, social, defence and any other policy. Recall, please, who did this impact analysis to present it to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and when did we discuss this potential impact in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U77	I shall first make a clarification: before I said that the probability of the guarantee being realised is of little importance. Not a little important, but a little likely. I was wrong. But I've already answered your question. You've been to the Commission yourself, and you know we haven't had these analyses on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U78	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague! My question concerns the future. If we guarantee Estonia's participation and the guarantee materialises, what will Estonia start with: will it introduce reserves or will it borrow? Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U80	I can answer that the Estonian state, whether or not we have discussed the issue as you have put it, has quite a financial capacity. We have borrowing capacity, we have reserves, and our budget deficit is not high. You should also be aware of these circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U81	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There are already rumors today that, in fact, this EUR 440 billion that this EFSF should allow is not enough to save the European economy and countries in trouble. Some experts believe that this amount should increase to EUR 2 trillion in the near future. That's a sci-fi amount! Do you know how quickly Europe can decide that we need to increase our guarantees? How many billion euros should we increase our guarantees, and would we really be able to serve these guarantees if the EFSF really were to increase to two trillion euros in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U83	Thank you for your question. The international press will certainly receive a great deal of interesting information, especially from the press of countries that are not themselves in the euro zone using other currencies and predicting a terrible future for the euro. But I suggest you keep your nerves up and not start rushing over every rumor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U84	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is clear that what is happening now in Europe and in the euro zone will also affect our economy in the future. But when we talk about solidarity in Europe, perhaps we should first talk about solidarity in our Estonian society. However, this is a bit different. My question is: to what extent does this draft, which we are currently discussing, have an impact on the budget for next year and how are these guarantee figures reflected in this budget? As former Minister of Finance, you must know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U86	Thank you for your question. Yes, it concerns the budget for next year, the draft which was handed over to the Riigikogu yesterday. For the sake of time savings, I can show you later in the explanatory memorandum where these lines are.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U87	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In recent days, I have read in the media that the Chancellor of Justice has been very critical of the legal decisions on this draft, in terms of whether they are compatible with the Constitution. I also read that Mr Gräzin has tabled some amendments on the basis of the proposals made publicly by the Chancellor of Justice. They've all been rejected. Are you sure this is all in accordance with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U89	As the Commission set a new deadline for interrupting second reading, Igor Gräzin will be able to table its amendments again and we will certainly address them. But as much as I can say, the Chancellor of Justice has been involved in the debate. Yesterday, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the Commission confirmed the agreement of the Chancellor of Justice with the new provisions, and here I want to express my thanks to the Chancellor of Justice and his office for their contribution. Indeed, the Chancellor of Justice's comments, suggestions and problems have been very valuable and have been of great help to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U90	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U91	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As an attentive listener, I remembered that when you answered Yana Toom, you advised her to read the verbatim. From this point of view, I have such a question. When a good colleague, Tarmo Tamm, asked whether alternatives had been discussed, you replied that this was not the subject of a large hall, it should be discussed in the Commission. However, in answering Mr Laanet's question of whether it would be possible to export our excellent crocodiles to Greece, or to find alternatives, you said that there was no time for this debate in the Commission. Now, looking at the verbatim, I wondered: "Where can we discuss this? You once claim that there was no time in the Commission, but when asked about the Commission, you say that there was no time in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U92	We have sitting weeks when we have committees working, and we have free weeks. I agree that these issues need to be dealt with constantly. They have long had to be dealt with and will have to be dealt with in the future. We'll find those opportunities, don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U93	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U94	Thank you. Dear waitress, I think you were in the hall yesterday when we were discussing the amendment of the holiday and anniversary laws. There was a complaint that there was no analysis of how an additional public holiday would affect our economy. This must have been important even though, according to the Minister for Finance, it would not actually have a significant impact. But right now, we are going to make a great deal of commitments to the country, but no impact analysis has been carried out. Tell me, please, did the Commission even discuss this question? Was this asked by the Minister of Finance and asked to carry out such an analysis and bring us these results so that we could discuss what our state budget would look like in, say, five years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U95	Thank you for your question. The best analysis to assess the probability of the guarantee being realised is to monitor Member States' programmes, the same MoUs, or Memoranda of Understanding, as set out in the Framework Agreement. It is precisely the implementation of these programmes that must be monitored to see how countries have met their commitments, whether they do so at a rapid pace or tend to lag behind. This assessment is and will continue to be carried out. If we join the fund, we will have the opportunity to contribute, to be present in these analyses and to intervene if necessary. That's the best guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U96	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, In the last week, I have constantly remembered a movie called Drinks, which has been edited by Mikhail Bulgakov's play of the same name. If anyone remembers this movie, it's going to take place in Istanbul and there's a cockroach race. The people sit, bet money, and cry out, " Run, Janichar! Run, Janichar! ' Janichhar is a cockroach, their leader. I should like to see such a picture in my mind that the Estonian Government and the Estonian Riigikogu intend to play this cockroach while being sane. Somebody's yelling back there like, "Run, run! ' And we will. Some of the moments why it seems that way. Everything happened in one week, seven days. We began to discuss draft 90 and, at the meeting of the Commission, my colleague Nestor informed the Commission and the Minister of Finance that it was actually not possible to take this decision, because it was contrary to the state budget law. There was such a longing, a small debate that revealed that the Minister was wrong, Nestor was right, and it was necessary to immediately initiate draft 95. Come on, Janichar, run! At a certain point, the question arises as to whether or not the draft complies with the Constitution. The analysis that was to be carried out by the Ministry of Finance is not, and then the Chancellor of Justice is rushed to be sought from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It's kind of funny when you look at it with a little impartiality. Run, Janichar, run! Perhaps it turns out that the text of the 90th draft text is far from ideal. It needs to be corrected. We are meeting in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but at the same time it turns out that we have nothing to discuss. I don't have any paper on the table that I can see from, specifically, which text we need to discuss. And we're told that there, these smart young people, they're starting to talk now, and we're going to fix it and discuss it. That was the moment I decided not to take part in this circus again. Maybe these things will show up. I am not going to rephrase everything, but, for example, there was a proposal to set the time at which the Riigikogu meeting would be held at the time when the amendments were tabled. That's unthinkable! Hop, they'll take care of it, and after the staff remark, it'll be changed. This working style has a rubber makeup on it, it's a real rubber stamp style because there's no substantive problem-handling. And what else do I draw that conclusion from? I asked a question twice today, and other colleagues asked. We gave an example that yesterday, during the debate on the amendment of the Holidays and Celebrations Act, there was a complaint that there was no analysis of the economic impact on our economy of adding one public holiday. You have been clearly told from this tribunal that neither the Committee on Monetary Affairs nor any other committee has discussed or explained the impact of the adoption of this decision, if it ever materialises and if we have to buy out bonds amounting to EUR 2 billion. Instead, we are talking about some kind of European solidarity. I have a suggestion: let our people talk about European solidarity in the Euro Parliament; we here must talk about solidarity within Estonia. I will give you a few more examples of how the debate took place in recent days. I also note that, unfortunately, since there is no record of the meetings in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and even no proper record, I must ask you to believe that my memory does not deceive me. Well, somebody might try to disprove it if they think it's necessary. For example, there will be a representative of the Chancellor of Justice, who is very much expected. He's a little late. Everyone's anxious to see the Chancellor of Justice, and he'll tell us what constitutionality is like. And he will come and be asked whether or not this proposed draft is contrary to the Constitution. And then he answered with a sentence that I think is the best sentence heard in the Committee on Monetary Affairs this year. This is what the man said: if you look at the constitution orthodoxly, it is contrary, but how creatively... If you don't see the contents of this sentence, run, Janichar, run! The amendments were examined. There are, of course, many of us have complicated relations, but I cannot accept that, if Mr Gräzin has tabled four amendments, the first of them will be voted through, after the vote, but the Minister for Finance says that there is no need to discuss any nonsense here. He uses the evil word of Mr Gräzini, which is double vile because Gräzini is not present, and suggests that we look at these proposals in such a concise way. What is the Commission doing? I'm not interfering because there are certain rules. Once the amendment has been tabled, it must be voted on, there is no other option. However, we are offered to sum up the proposals, to look at the other three in a consensual way, so that there is a consensus. Yes, it is. There's nothing to be put to the vote, and that's how it goes. I would like to know how this is done, whether it is formulated so that we actually discussed the various amendments together or separately. In conclusion, I can say that we are each performing here on our own behalf. I'm not personally taking part in this cockroach race. I do not support the rubber seal style in the work of the Riigikogu and can only make one proposal to the Riigikogu Board. Perhaps you are discussing the possibility that we will add a rubber stamp to the symbolism of the Riigikogu that would correspond very well to the style of work that we are developing here. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U98	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U99	Thank you, good questioner! You will know what the debt burden of the Estonian state is. I really do not appreciate that if the Estonian state were to issue bonds in international financial markets soon, under what conditions would it receive a loan. But I think on pretty good terms. By the way, Elering, a state-owned public limited company, recently conducted a bond issue with a very successful rating, and the rating of the Estonian state is higher than that of companies. I think that the Estonian state is able to deliver on the financial markets; the Estonian state has reserves. We were in the government with you when we were gathering reserves, and there's a lot left. The budgetary position of the Estonian state is much better than that of other countries. I am not going to read you the figures, how much our deficit is and what our balance of payments data are. But this is all because we have implemented a conservative fiscal policy. I very much hope that this will continue. However, I would advise you that, if you turn in the drafts, please think that you would not try to reduce public revenue with them with easy hands or take over the responsibilities that are incumbent on you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U100	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Thank you so much for these wisdom - overflowing proverbs! I'm sure we'll put them behind us. At the same time, the coalition would also like to put these proverbs behind its ears and act accordingly in today's vote. But here's the question. You are an experienced economic and financial person, a representative of the Commission. Has the Commission discussed whether the moment of the changeover to the euro was the best chosen? You would be able to make history here today and admit that this moment was not best chosen, that the euro was rushed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U102	Yesterday and the day before yesterday, we did not address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U103	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U104	Thank you. Good waitress! One day in front of the Riigikogu, you could read on slogans that Greece has quite large gold reserves. Did the Commission also mention whether Greece would leave these gold reserves in reserve before it became guarantees? I don't know if the number on the poster was right, but hopefully it was. Did it come up or didn't it come up?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U105	It didn't come up, but I suggest you specify if these gold stocks are central bank or government. There's a big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U106	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U107	Thank you. Here's the question. When discussing such matters, the position of Eesti Pank is also asked. Has the Commission asked for the position of Eesti Pank and, if so, what is the position of Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U108	I answered this question at first reading when we discussed the principles of the draft. I'm not gonna go over it today. The representative of Eesti Pank was not present at the meetings of 27 and 28 September, but we have frequent visitors on the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U109	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U110	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable speaker! As a finance specialist, can you assess the state rating of Estonia in different financial institutions? We know that the ability to borrow depends to a large extent on it. There's a lot of questions about where we're gonna take this money if we have to. What could be Estonia's sovereign rating after we take this decision and guarantee the amount that represents a relatively large part of our state budget? Will it change Estonia's ratings or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U111	Thank you for that question. As far as I'm concerned, when I answered the previous questioner, I meant the theoretical circumstances. I certainly wouldn't recommend going to the bond market and borrowing. That's not what I'm suggesting. We have every opportunity to balance the state budget. But surely all the factors that you mentioned in the public finances as a whole, the overall volume of the debt burden, the dynamics of whether the debt will decrease or increase, will have an impact on the sovereign rating.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U112	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U113	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I will continue on the subject raised by Tarmo Leinatamm. Yes, we can debate whether the Greek situation is exceptional or not. But as stated in the preamble, the state must have come into this under circumstances beyond its control. Does the Commission consider that Greece has been exposed to this situation by externalities completely independent of itself, or have they failed to do something themselves, for years? If I read the Financial Times and Economist, it says that Greece has been pursuing irresponsible fiscal policies for years, has increased the debt burden too much, has not balanced its state budget. It hasn't happened overnight. Does the Commission, however, believe that this has happened overnight, or is Greece still doing nothing for years?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U114	Thank you for your question. Indeed, as the results of the surveys published today show: Europe's most hardworking people are in many difficulties on their own account. There have been reports of their statistics, which they cannot fix, and which they claim to have distorted, maybe they themselves did not have a good view of the state of affairs years ago. It may not have been a frequent deliberate false declaration, but there has certainly been a false declaration. So it can't be said that only external factors are to blame.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U115	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! If you answered Kadri Samson's question here, the answer was quite clear: if the guarantee were to go to execution, we would be able to obtain a loan for it thanks to a good rating, and there are still plenty of reserves. You also warned that the Centre Party Group would not come up with any draft that would reduce these reserves. This leads to a very clear understanding: in order to guarantee some unknown fund for two billion, we will set up all reserves and take out a loan. Our drafts have always meant improving the well-being of an Estonian person, but there is no way in which reserves can be used or borrowed to improve the well-being of an Estonian person. Do you have such a position? It kind of came out clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U117	Thank you for your question. I answered the questioner exactly as he asked. We were talking about a theoretical possibility. In general, I do not recommend that countries go to the debt market to lend. The financial situation of the Estonian state is now such that we should not think about borrowing, but we should think about collecting reserves. And maybe even at a slightly faster pace than the official plans are right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U118	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U119	Aivar, do you not think that this package is actually a very left-wing issue? This is not a crisis of capitalism, it is a crisis of socialism. And as a rule, the Centre Party should deal with the left-wing fools, why do we have to do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U120	Thank you for your question. Thankfully, thanks to the conservative line the governments have maintained so far, we have escaped this horror.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U121	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U122	Thank you, Mr President. A representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance was talking about it, but I'm gonna check with you too. Currently, EFSF customers are Portugal and Ireland. We provide the guarantee, according to the Minister of Finance, only to future customers. How is our guarantee money allocated from the guarantees already in place for Portugal and Ireland?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U123	Each country guarantees no more than the amount stated in this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U124	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U125	The question is that we will, of course, guarantee it up to 2.5 billion unless the Riigikogu decides otherwise. Let's hope it doesn't have to be realised, but it looks like maybe we'll be facing a new bailout pretty soon. However, Ireland and Portugal are already EFSF customers. Will our surety extend to them, even though their surety agreements have been made before we joined the fund? Don't we give them guarantees retroactively?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U126	Not that I know of.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U127	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U128	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Minister of Finance the same question. I did not get a precise answer, perhaps you have discussed it in the committee. Will there be any legal or substantive consequences for Estonia's non-accession, if we do not adopt this draft decision, because we are both members of the European Union and members of the euro area?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U129	Thank you for your question. It will certainly have consequences, and the most serious consequence is that it is very difficult for us to participate in this process, which is broadly the European Union's decision-making process, if we say now that you will see how you are doing. I don't even want to think about the consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U130	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Do you not think that if laws are passed so quickly, the quality of the Riigikogu's decisions will fall? We're still working maybe half an hour or an hour, but at 14:00, we're gonna have to make some corrections. So when do you make them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U132	Thank you for your question. We could have summed up today's debate better and not gone to such a wide area, for example, to discuss how we can help the European Union with our wisdom. We can discuss it more widely in the costaires, let's not waste any time on this right now. That's right, to go faster. The more we talk here, the less time until 2:00 to propose improvements.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U133	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U134	I have a question for Aivar Sõerd: does he share Juku-Kalle Raidi's idea that European solidarity is left-wing nonsense?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U135	Would you be so kind as to specify this assessment to the source itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U136	Good waitress! Thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U137	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Having given great thought to this subject, I have also had the honour of being a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I would like to say that the more I listen to this talk, the more it becomes clear that it is very difficult to support Estonia's accession to the European Financial Stability Fund in this form. In itself, I am absolutely convinced that there are two ways in the euro area as a whole: either the United States of Europe or the breakdown. Since I do not support the United States of Europe, I see that this road is a disintegration. The reason that this break-up must be postponed by EUR 2 billion to buy time, hoping that something will change, it has not convinced me so far. To date, the EFSF has provided EUR 78 billion in loans to Portugal and EUR 85 billion in loans to Ireland. After all, we are all very likely to understand this in this Chamber, in the near future, Greece will be added to this line, which has so far benefited from assistance under bilateral agreements between countries. Estonia has so far not participated in any programme. Now, as a fresh euro-country, there are times when we feel like we are not getting away with this. There is no time to talk about alternatives either in the Commission, in the big hall or anywhere else. It seems that the decision has been made and that this hall really is only a place for molding and rubber stamp. Why should Estonia not participate in the EFSF? I have repeatedly given this example, and I believe that everyone will remember the scene from the popular movie Summer where Toots is going to borrow money from Tõnisson. Farmer Tõnisson doesn't give money, he gives a signature, a guarantee, or a guarantee, while admitting that he knew his friend was coming, he would have left home instead. The EFSF expects the same assurance from Estonia, with a guarantee for the principal amount of EUR 1.995 billion, which, as we all know, represents one third of our country's budget. Yeah, of course there's hope that maybe there's no need. But if it were to get sour, we would be in need of help if we applied such guarantees. I am sure that if our neighbour asked us to guarantee a thousand euros, none of us in this Chamber would satisfy his assurance that it might not actually be necessary. Where or at what cost will the resources come from to fulfil the obligations? In my opinion, there is a border somewhere, from which the imposition of huge responsibilities should not be allowed in the name of European solidarity and cohesion either. I am deeply saddened by the hypocrisy with which the subject has been reflected in the past when it comes to the whole issue. We know that Greece reported defaults as early as 2009. In May 2010, it received EUR 110 billion in aid. Time and again, I refer to one official press release from the Ministry of Finance last year, entitled 'The Ministry promises: Estonia will never have to give money to Greece'. Time and again, the question arises as to why there was no clearly aware risk assessment in the changeover and why was the debate not encouraged to open up on the potential risks? I believe that the answer will be found in the elections that were then approaching. It is justified that, thanks to the euro, we have received more investment than our southern neighbours Latvia and Lithuania. The results of the Ernst & Young study published on 27 January 2011 show that the Baltic States have received an equal number of points on the currency risk measure. The forecast for economic growth is equal to that of Latvia and Lithuania, with the euro as a currency rather than a currency of little corruption and the simplicity of regulation. What is the point of practicing deep savings in Estonia if, after that, you have to start bailing out loans from distant neighbours? After all, the guarantee is as good as taking the loan yourself and paying off the neighbour's SMS loans, hoping the neighbor will pay back the money to the bank every month. So as not to leave this conversation for just one Rainer's comment, I brought a post from my training partner Rainer Nõlvaku Facebook. I'm sure you know him, that's the one 'Let's do it! ' leader in Estonia and in the rest of the world. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The government and the Riigikogu must be honest with their people. And when we call on the people to show solidarity with other nations, we must first have solidarity with our own people, that is the prerequisite. It is not right to say that the majority of the people do not support the provision of guarantees as a matter of urgency, just because they are holding their fingernails towards them and they have forgotten that the European Union has supported us on a very large scale. The people's misunderstanding is only linked to the fact that we have only made efforts ourselves to meet the criteria that others are currently violating, and that we are the poorest in terms of gross domestic product per capita, among the support countries that are discussing guarantees, even the poorest in terms of GDP than those we are going to support. It is a very difficult decision that we are going to make today. Here, constitutional experts look to financial experts and financial experts look to constitutional experts. But there is another subject that we can honestly talk about. This is the future of Estonia, it is the future of Europe, and it is actually that today's decisions are linked to a number of future decisions, on which we are not sure whether we will have the opportunity to engage again if we make today's decisions. It is not right to argue that joining the EFSF is only an individual issue. No! With the same decision, we are already creating mechanisms that bear these same obligations, also potential commitments regarding the stability mechanism, which will only start in 2013. Mr Barroso, President of the European Commission, spoke quite clearly yesterday about greater integration, the introduction of common taxes, greater financial and economic integration. We're on our way to the United States. It is increasingly being spoken about in Europe. There are no individual decisions! Can we keep up and say stop at the right time? Our people have not agreed on the United States of Europe; our people have not agreed on all the consequences that may result from our decisions today. Let us make these decisions consciously! As far as I know, amendments to the current draft have been agreed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. These changes are the least we can do. Now a few words about my motivation for voting tonight. I will sum up all my willpower to vote in favour of this decision. I need willpower because I feel that something is forcing me to make that decision. This is not a group decision or something supernatural, but it is some compulsion. But in order to take this step, I have to work hard. I am making an effort to ensure that the government coalition does not fall apart, and I fully understand that if I vote against the draft decision in the current situation, the collapse of the government coalition will begin. But the current government coalition is the best we have in Estonia at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U139	Good waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U140	Yeah, a few seconds!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U141	I'll give you at least three minutes. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U142	The current government coalition is the best we can do, at least if we take account of defence policy needs and hopefully also of citizenship policy needs. Based on these areas, this coalition of government is now the best for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U143	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Leinatamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U144	Good manager! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Apparently, this decision will be taken, but I want to stop at a few moments that still bother me. In particular, it is stated in the preamble that something extraordinary must have happened in the country that qualifies as a beneficiary of the loan or grant. I understand that the Greek state is an exceptional situation, an extraordinary consequence. However, the events that have led to this have not been extraordinary, simply because of human weakness. Do we not send a message to other countries by approving this preamble to make sure that your result is such an emergency, so you get the money? Do whatever you want, and no matter how long, we will not come to stop you or disturb you. And even if you've lied before, we'll be blindfolded. I think that ignoring this sends the very, very wrong message to those countries in Europe who may want to follow the same pattern. Secondly, on the basis of the previous talk, it is very difficult for me and all of us to explain to the Estonians who receive a gross sum of EUR 500 to 600 why we must support the citizens of a Member State of the European Union earning EUR 2 500 to 2 600 per month. Why do we have to do this? I have not been able to answer this to any of my colleagues in my other field of activity, and obviously there is no argument for an answer from this floor, from this speaker's desk. The Estonian is not the fingernails of the person. Let's think about the Christmas Tunnel, let's think about the children's hospitals and the news we heard today that the Ministry of Social Affairs gave us half the money, but half the money has been collected by the people themselves so that Hiiumaa can get a tomographer. The Estonian will be happy to assist the other person if something crazy has happened independently of the neighbour, but the Estonian will certainly not give the neighbour a loan guarantee, it will not give him any help so that he can pay his lease on Lexus. If all the euro area countries of the European Union had fulfilled their signed commitment to remain within the 3% deficit and not to borrow over the agreed amount, we should not be making up the EFSF and the ESM in Europe or any other strange animals that lead us where we know where. Finally, I agree very much with you, Tõnis Lukas. After reading the very strong statement made yesterday by Barroso, it is the impression that we are also taking the initiative today, Mr Järvi, to draw attention to this by taking a long step in this direction, for which we do not have the authority of the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U145	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U146	Good manager! I can get carried away.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U147	In that case, we'll give you eight minutes from the beginning.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, Thought statements from this Riigikogu speaker differ significantly from the debates we had on the committee. That is where we discussed the draft decision; there has been a debate on the principle issue. Forgive me, but I repeat the expressions I used several times. First of all, if you look out the window, you'll have the wrong impression that the world is flat. In fact, several hundred years ago, a man proved that it was round. The difference between what a person believes and sees, and what he knows, it's gonna come out here today. Good school brother Tõnis Lukas! Remember, you and I went to school where we were taught all the wisdom and even what we didn't need. One wisdom was civil defense. Millions of people believed that if they pulled the mask on in nine seconds, they would survive, even though in a global nuclear war, the stone would not remain on the stone. It's the same now. The real choices are either east or west, and there are no more choices. Those who think there's another third chance, they believe this civil defense teaching from putting a mask on. I understand the colleagues who have asked a lot of questions here today and perhaps caused some resentment. For their electorate, this route to the West has not been the most acceptable, let us say so. I also understand when they protest about how the government has prepared this decision and brought it before us. It hasn't been the best way. They will meet the expectations that their voters have. However, I believe that most people in Estonia understand that this direction, which has been maintained for 20 years and which has been directed towards the West, has been correct, and they support it. Unfortunately, all these steps, including Mr Barroso's speech yesterday, are part of this. But now it's a decision. The Commission has worked intensively and continuously on this draft decision, and has worked hard. Okay, well, you might want to make some excuses that it's a first time for us and that's why it's complicated. There have been many fundamental disputes. Then what is it? In my opinion, the consensus reached today in the Commission, despite the many changes that could not be taken into account because there were important mistakes, is briefly as follows: in fact, Estonia is saying with this decision that it is at all ready to think about the countries that are in trouble in the European economy. Every specific new package of assistance comes to this large hall, every smaller move remains in the Commission and even smaller in the government. This means the balance between the logic of the Constitution and its decision relating to the granting of guarantees. This complexity is essentially due to the fact that EFSF is a private company. When it comes to ESM, it is different, by other rules, the principles are different, the Riigikogu then makes a single decision whether we are there or not. In the end, I think, by looking at this timetable, how European countries report cooperation in breaking concerns, that whether we are doing this today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow is not so important. What's important is that we do it. I also believe that this debate, which has arisen in Estonia on Greek wages and pensions, has not come about because they are so high in Greece, but because they are so low in Estonia. This is a much more serious issue than the Greek minimum wage or Greek pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U149	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Taavi Kõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U150	Good fellows! If you wait or assume that if I come to the remote, I'm going to praise the EFSF to heaven, you're definitely wrong. But you know, friends, both I and all of you certainly have pension pillars, many of us also have savings that we are likely to keep in the bank, and if we really believe that becoming insolvent in some countries of the European Union would not have a very direct and painful impact on you, me, all of us Estonians' wallets, then we will definitely be wrong. This effect exists and it is immense. So we are certainly not only dealing with the rescue of debtors, of borrowers, but we are also working to ensure stability throughout Europe. We actually ensure that our money, our pensions and our future are preserved. In addition, I think we remember quite well what happened when the markets developed total mistrust of banks, because no one knew how many Lehman Brothers or related bonds or instruments were on anyone's balance sheet. Nobody gave anyone a loan. Despite the fact that Lehman Brothers' bonds were not decisive in the balance sheets of Estonian banks, it was a tragic blow to the Estonian real economy, several sectors: it caused unemployment, increased interest rates, very serious problems. Keep this in mind, because neither Lehman Brothers' balance sheet size and Greek GDP are of such a very different magnitude. I am also very disturbed by the occasional bragging of bankers and experts when it comes to whether or not the EFSF is commercially viable. I am terrified to point out the recent offer of a rather large bank operating in Estonia to its key clients, where they recommended the purchase of sovereign bonds in very serious difficulties today. I don't know if the customers bought them or if the bank bought them on its own balance sheet. Now the management of the same bank is saying that maybe participating in the EFSF is not a good plan. What is actually being saved is, to a large extent, the future of these very bankers, because their interests are still very seriously damaged, not to mention that if a country in the European Union becomes insolvent, their jobs will also be subject to very serious question. Friends! This is not a business that is dealt with, it cannot be measured in business categories. The question is whether or not insolvency can be prevented. The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu has agreed very important changes which we do not yet see in this Chamber for technical reasons or at least do not see in this sitting, because this session is scheduled to interrupt reading. After the interruption, we can vote on these changes and bring them before you. Since a great deal has been said here about the slightly outdated version of this draft today, I will mention what the Committee on Monetary Affairs has essentially agreed. This is very important for us, because it concerns a significant increase in the role of the Riigikogu. According to the agreement of the Committee on Monetary Affairs (I hope you will support this amendment), the Riigikogu will decide on each new country, the new programme in the EFSF, and the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs will have the right to participate in deciding all changes and details of the programme. This is a very important increase in Parliament's competences. This is partly because it was suggested by the Chancellor of Justice, partly because it was also demanded by a part of the Riigikogu, at least a large part of the opposition. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U151	Thank you for your question. I can assure you that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is now talking about the 27-28 September sessions, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been sitting together before and will continue to sit down in the future, and will continue to deal with the debt crisis within a very narrow framework, but certainly also more widely than the specific draft provisions of today require.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U152	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U153	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U154	Thank you. Dear waitress, We have repeatedly been assured here that guarantees are actually such a thing that is of no particular importance and will never be realised. However, you have already said twice today that there are two options: either they are realised or they are not realised. I am afraid that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, too, have the impression that the guarantee is a pure formality. Since you know that this is not a pure formality, have you warned the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and have they discussed possible scenarios, including the realisation of guarantees? As you claim, it is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U155	My understanding is that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have an adequate understanding of the nature of the guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U156	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your introductory speech, or presentation, you mentioned when speaking about the principles that certain decision-making powers go to the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Government of the Republic will address ELAK and ask for a position. However, as far as I am aware, the current law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu does not allow it to allow ELAK to give a position on this matter to the Government of the Republic. Has it become clear today whether it is necessary to amend the law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and, if so, how and when it is planned to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U158	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu gives the ELAK the framework in such a way that the Commission gives its opinion on the legislation of the European Union. This fund's framework agreement may not really be regarded as such a European Union act, and it is likely that the law on home and working arrangements needs to be clarified in this respect. But when to do so, this could be one of the topics of our debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U159	Peter Kreitzberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U160	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The Greek debt crisis is a crisis of some of the major banks in Europe. Where are these banks? Can you name some of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U161	The debt crisis in the euro area has taken on a large scale, which means risks in the financial system, risks in the banking sector. You mentioned Greece. Of course, these banks, whose assets include Greek bonds, are more vulnerable than others. They are more affected by these risks. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U162	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U163	Here's the question. Before you didn't answer how the people felt about it. You have not discussed these views in the Commission and no studies have been carried out at national level. But if you were to appear in public now, how would you explain to the people how certain it is that we do not have to pay out this amount, this third of the budget of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U164	Thank you for your question. I will certainly take every opportunity to explain to people what the value of European solidarity and cooperation is. I would also recommend that you explain this value to the people at your meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U165	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, If you weren't a well-known finance specialist, perhaps I wouldn't be asking the question, but now I am asking you, knocking on your conscience, how big do you consider the risks that bring this bill to our country that we are currently discussing?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U167	I would respond in such a way that the rescue mechanism is the best that European Union leaders have been able to propose and agree on the current knowledge. I believe that the successful implementation of this fund so far, as well as of the future, is, above all, the best instrument for mitigating the risks associated with the debt crisis in the euro area.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U168	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U169	Thank you. Dear waitress, In answering my question as to whether the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs are aware that guarantees may also be realised, you said that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have a perfectly adequate understanding of the matter. And if they have an adequate understanding, are both scenarios discussed or not? Has the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed what will happen if the guarantees are realised?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U170	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U171	I am pleased that there is a complete consensus between the two Rainers on this issue. I will read it to all of you: 'If Estonia has a backbone, we have the opportunity to change the history of Europe now. It is not a question of 2 billion support for Greece, but of restoring the dignity of the southern Europeans. Would Spartacus, like the Greek today, have evaded taxes? Would the free citizens of ancient Athens have made it difficult for strangers to ask for money to take care of their little ones? Recently, while walking in Ghana's capital city, a local friend warned me not to give money to children. Have you thought about what aid Greece really needs? A cancer of a well-being society is an illusion that caring can be bought in, that self-esteem can be issued by a bank. No, you can't. The blind belief that this crisis will somehow be resolved, as long as it is quickly 'tossed in the fire', is an example of the fact that the substantive solution of the problem does not really matter to the Greek Government or to the European rulers. Why? Because they don't believe there's a solution. Now back to Estonia. So what can we do? We can tell our story and help the Greeks to understand it. That a balanced budget does not allow Estonians to help their dying with dignity. That there's not enough money for dental care. That a large part of us, more enterprising young people, are working against our will abroad. That we have made such choices because our dignity does not allow our concerns to hang on to others. Euro-subsidies, indeed, we are morally indebted to German pensioners, but the day will come when we will be free to pay them back, too. I am not against supporting Greece, not at all. However, it is clear in the day that the Greek problem cannot be solved with money. For example, Estonia would be able to guarantee food aid, firewood and sharing experiences for starving Greeks. Our contribution could be to help the Greeks realise that their problems can still be solved only by themselves, together. If European banks are now going bankrupt on a massive scale, Estonia could help Europe guarantee savings for small savers and propose mechanisms to preserve the liquidity of companies. Increasing debt dependency has never been the solution. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U172	Thank you. Honourable performer! You have said many times today that we should be very grateful that we have received so much money and more from Europe. But Estonia has not received any emergency aid. Everyone has been the usual funding coming from the European Union, and it will soon be that our contributions will be exceeded. Why are you still handing out, in this Chamber, the unprotected responses that may have been prescribed for you in the group? We really want to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U173	I believe that if we get richer, we'll really bet more at some point than we get out of there today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U174	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U175	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have a question as to whether there was, in my opinion, a slight contradiction in the debate within the Commission. The preamble to this legislation states that the State will qualify for a loan if something extraordinary has happened to it, i.e. force buildings have entered into the game in legal terms. In the case of an aid loan expected to be granted to Greece, does Greece qualify for this category? Has something extraordinary happened in Greece? Has there been any unrest, an outbreak of war, or a natural disaster, or is there a cause elsewhere? Does the Committee on Monetary Affairs have anything to do with this, in my opinion, a major contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U176	We have also discussed the issue of the debt crisis more broadly. This situation, which some Member States have encountered, can indeed be regarded as an emergency situation. This is a situation in which the financial markets have, I think, I am not exaggerating when I say that panic phenomena may not be right to call it panic and where intervention by other countries is necessary. Otherwise, countries will be forced to borrow money from the financial markets at an interest rate that is simply not rational. At present, however, countries still have time to get their finances in order and restore their solvency.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U177	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U178	Thank you. Mr Aivar Sõerd, Commissioner, I will draw attention to your double standards when you represent the Commission. You have answered one question here that you cannot answer what line the guarantee in the budget should be written on. The question was that when the guarantee turns against us, how it should be reflected in the budget. A few weeks ago, when I was standing in a chair in your place, you attacked me with the accusation that the Centre Party had not yet formulated where it was precisely included in the budget in 2013, when the indoor excise duty would be reduced to reduce home expenses. Now, however, try to follow your own principles and tell me that when the guarantee we give comes into force, where does it appear in our budget and where does it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U179	Thanks for the question. You didn't even answer me as much as I answered you today. So much for the reproach.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U180	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, That's what I'm asking. It is already a good practice for us that, on important issues, our civil society groups are also being approached and asked for their opinion. There was no such opportunity in the Committee on Finance and no one came forward to invite representatives of some associations and local authorities to the debate and also to address civil society organisations so that they could express their views on this important issue. Have you coalition partners asked local governments, associations, organisations for a position, and if so, what have they answered?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U182	Thank you for your question. We are all politicians here, and we communicate with people all the time on important issues. The debt crisis in general and the conditions for joining the fund and guaranteeing the fund are a very important issue, which it is certainly worth talking to people about and explaining to them at every opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U183	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U184	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I would still come back to my first question. In that regard, you are right that this is really a consequence, but the situation is hopeless and extraordinary. If no aid is granted, the Greek State can become very illiquid. But the reasons are somewhere else, aren't they? In the preamble, if a State qualifies as a beneficiary, something extraordinary must have happened to it, there must be some force majeure that has not depended on it itself. As in 1940, Estonia was not dependent on the state, that we were simply visited and stayed here for 50 years. But in the Greek country, I do not know this situation: I do not know that there would have just been a war there, that the Italians would have come to dismantle or something. In my opinion, the Greek State does not currently legally qualify for the category mentioned in the preamble.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U185	I think that the situation that we currently have on the financial markets, where some countries are unable to borrow money from the financial markets, qualifies for this category.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U186	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U187	Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. You refuse to answer the most important question of whether the Committee on Monetary Affairs has analysed at all that, if a guarantee is granted, the obligation can be turned against the guarantor. And if this happens during the next or the next financial year, where will the Estonian state find the money and how will it be reflected in the Estonian budget? Please try to give me an answer, otherwise it will appear that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not paid attention to this aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U188	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The beginning of the procedure of the draft decision 90 once again highlighted the familiar features of the current leaders of our small Estonian state from earlier times: the same arrogance we have known long ago, the desire not to take into account either our own constitution or other laws, the unambiguous desire to push the Riigikogu into the role of the rubber stamp, the lack of relevance of the recommendations of the Chancellor of Justice (i mean the initial rhetoric of the Minister of Finance), intimidation and demagogical influence with half-sisters. It has not been three weeks since the beginning of the autumn season of the Riigikogu, but the President of the Republic of Estonia's appeal to his recommendations and suggestions would not have been the case. Everything that the President warned about is going to happen even worse, even more cynically than ever before. The Minister of Finance warns that if the Riigikogu does not take a decision immediately within one week, the entire European financial system will collapse. So knock down this temple now and don't gloat, because there is no second chance anyway, you're wasting time in vain! Sometimes there is also a knock on the conscience that we get so much support from the European Union, we should be embarrassed if we do not now support the Union in trouble. In this context, it is not intentionally added that those members of the European Union who do not belong to the euro area and do not have to do or give back anything to save it. At the top of the demagogy, of course, is the confirmation that we are providing a guarantee of nearly EUR 2 billion, but it is simply a guarantee, and real money we will never have to pay. The worst part is that the Head of Government and the Minister of Finance have instilled it so strongly on themselves that they have probably believed themselves that the guarantee will never be enforced. Why, then, has it not been possible to give a clear answer to the questions of where the money will be taken, for example, in a few days or what we are talking about in a few months? It is necessary to put out real money to cover the guarantee. If the experienced banker Indrek Neivelt says that such a way of thinking does not make sense to come to the bank or should go upside down from there, our award-winning finance minister at European level will find that the banker does not share the punch. Well, for heaven's sake, who else? The Minister says that the claim against the country that has gone bankrupt will remain, and once we get the money back, even if the guarantee has been enforced. I mean, maybe in a hundred years we can, but two billion will be taken out of their wallets today. How to look your people in the eye when the next rhetoric comes, that you must now be patient and good, because within the next five to ten years, we will not raise the wages of teachers, policemen, rescuers, medical workers, and no one at all, because you must understand that we need to fill this two-billion-dollar hole in the state's purse, fix public finances again, and then we can talk about wage increases and subsidies. If there is anyone left in Estonia other than the members of the government and the loyal groups that support them! No, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot, unfortunately, believe any of your words on this bill! All the rhetoric that had to do with the changeover is still too clear in mind. We heard the Minister of Finance repeatedly in this Chamber, but especially from the Prime Minister's mouth, how much happiness comes to our yard when we go to the euro. Foreign investment was promised to increase sharply. Statistics show that nothing like this has happened before, they've been reduced. The outflow of money from the country has increased. It was promised that prices would not increase, but they have almost doubled by now. For tomorrow's great happiness, we were forced to give up wages and subsidies for those in need. Still promising that the euro will bring us back double tomorrow. So today is the day it's promised tomorrow. The wisdom of the old sailors is known that rats leave the sinking ship early. But our Estonian rat rushed to a sinking ship at the instigation of its leaders. It could either be a major distraction, or this rat falls within the definition used by the esteemed finance minister in a printing house for intruders. Anyway, in full mental health, that rat couldn't have been. During the discussion of the draft, questions have also been put to the Minister of Finance. The answer has been that when these decisions were taken last May-June, there were no signs of danger in the European financial system. The answer is wrong again. Firstly, as early as last May, Greece's financial problems were obvious. Secondly, if they remained unnoticed by our leaders, they were already so obvious in Europe in September-October, so at least the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance must have known about them. The people, of course, were not told about this, and they tried to hide it from the public at all. The question arises as to why the autumn did not reverse the European aspirations. On the contrary, until the end of the year, more and more of the euro hysteria was being heated up. For whom or for what? Just for the sake of the finance minister's honor? We're getting lured into a salt bowl today. All we need to do is take this step, and we will no longer have to take the next steps. Then we'll be sucked into the pit. He's dictating our next state. One minute, we feel like we can't move our legs anymore because we're in a belt. Not in a very long time, we feel that the chin is against the surface, and then the moment comes when we will see the light of the weather for the last time. No, I don't want to take this step in any way, not even with the knowledge that the esteemed finance minister is floating around there. Finally, I would like to put a rhetorical question to the President of the Republic of Estonia: does it seem to him that the parties who supported him correctly understood the recommendations made at the opening session of his Riigikogu? And is he very proud of that? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U189	Thank you! Eldar Efendiev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U190	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! The situation in the world and in Europe and our debate are a cause for concern. What worries me? First of all, the Riigikogu discusses this issue in an accelerated manner. The decision of the European Union was taken already in July, but the Riigikogu wants to take the final decision within a week. The Estonian people have actually stayed away from discussing this important issue. Secondly, the drafts change and we do not know which version is final. Today we are discussing a bill, but we are already talking about a completely different bill, or we are only talking about the principles that have been outlined. Thirdly, behaviour is at the legal limit. That's what the Chancellor of Justice said. If we do not know whether the final version or final versions and behaviour comply with the Constitution, it is difficult to be sure that our last decisions do not conflict with the Constitution. Fourthly, as has been said, our budget is small and already consists of nearly 17% of foreign resources. If you make a third of your commitments, what will happen to our budget and to covering Estonia's needs? Fifthly, it is worrying that not only the Estonian people have been removed from the discussion of the matter, but also the Riigikogu actually transfers full powers to the government and it has not been specified. The memorandum format does not solve the problem. Sixthly, the European Union is not unanimous on this issue; there are also many questions. I will give an example only of the questions that arose between Sarkozy and Merkel. Seventhly, the development of European Union programmes and yesterday's Barroso report state what needs to be done, including the need for a common fiscal policy, not only on deficit, but also on deficit. There is a need to establish strict controls in all countries' budgetary practices. In this context, the question arises as to what are Estonia's opportunities in view of our small budget. I understood that Estonia does not know exactly what is going on in the short term or in the long term. It is not just a question of solidarity; the question is that it is not clear what is going to happen, especially with taxpayers who are actually paying off these obligations, and it is therefore necessary to respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U191	I'm declaring recess. The sitting will be resumed at 12.18 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U192	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Enn Fronta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U193	Ladies and gentlemen, It is relatively easy to accept many of the positions expressed by members of the coalition and opposition. It is a matter of our own when we start talking about conclusions. In general, this discussion, which has taken place over the draft decision of 90 in this Chamber, has, in my opinion, been quite constructive. On the basis of this particular decision, very much has been said about theory, the black and white forces, east and west have been brought into play. Well, that's the way to theorize it. I will consider one of the most practical problems that will actually result from this decision, which, if we theorize, may still be born today. Let's see where we are. The draft decision to join the EFSF has been corrected, according to which the full composition of the Riigikogu can decide whether or not the state will receive assistance from the Fund. That will be our task. It's a big part. Perhaps, in terms of detail, a much greater role will come to the Commission on European Union affairs. In the preliminary draft proposed by the Government, the Riigikogu would have given a general guarantee; subsequent payments would have been decided by the Government, in consultation with the Riigikogu European Union Affairs Commission. I would point out that point 3 of the text of the draft decision reads as follows: 'The guarantee is decided by the Government of the Republic for EFSF debt financing approved support programmes. " When we asked the Minister of Finance about this, he said that this is not the most accurate use of words. It is relatively difficult to accept, because there is a perfectly clear programme of action and a plan: the granting of guarantees is decided by the Government of the Republic. Thanks to the decision and initiative of the Riigikogu, this point has now been changed. Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, and also the President's legal adviser, recallably drew Parliament's attention at the beginning of the week to the fact that commitments to the state can, however, only be made by a decision of the Riigikogu. After all, the EFSF is well known to be working on the conclusion of an agreement with each beneficiary country, i.e. a memorandum setting out both the conditions of the aid and the programme of compulsory economic reforms of the beneficiary country. The aid programme drawn up by the EFSF must in turn be approved by all the beneficiary countries, and in the future Estonia. Portugal and Ireland currently have an aid programme, pending Greece. If these countries are to be joined by a new one, support for this aid programme will be the responsibility of the Riigikogu in the future. It may seem unnecessary for many to decide on the purchase of bonds, capitalisation of banks or changes to the aid programme of any beneficiary state, but it seems to me now necessary because the future fate of a healthy but economically ill state depends on the decision of the Riigikogu. My question: does the Riigikogu have enough competence and human resources to make such decisions? The obvious answer is that these resources are lacking both in form and content. I deliberately asked Aivar Sõerd today about future memoranda. With great experience, the former Minister of Finance explained... I'm gonna need a little more time! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U194	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U195	... that these memoranda are extremely voluminous. There is a great deal of text, there are very many concepts of which it is very difficult even for specialists to understand in order to make the right decision. However, one of the previous speakers honestly admitted that when he worked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, he did not understand these things so much. It may not be necessary for political decisions to be made until the end, but when we talk about content and, even specifically, about the future assistance of the Greek State, it is simply not enough to make a political decision, because we are taking on the fate of the entire Greek state and also of the people. There is a great deal of haste in this draft decision, although we realise that some decisions are urgent. I have become concerned and the question is that if we got what we wanted (and it is actually right that it is the Riigikogu that has to take a decision), this decision must not be made formally, but this decision must be made for reasons of substance. In order to consider and examine the details of the memorandum, it is likely that there will be little one or two advisors in the Commission, but some of the members of the Commission do not really possess the subject. That is why it would be better to solve this problem first and then decide whether we are taking on the responsibility that we are taking, although, I repeat, this should actually be the case. This is when the Riigikogu is working on the so-called "minimum funding" programme and when the majority of society is of the opinion that 101 members of the Riigikogu would not be needed at all, but would be enough for half the less. You can imagine the situation we would be in if, in that case, we were going to analyse the memorandum very clearly and thoroughly. This summer I went to San Marino, where there are 30,000 people and where there are 60 members of Parliament. When hearing these figures, it should be clear what the answer to this rhetorical question is whether there are not too many members in the Riigikogu. If there are 60 Members of Parliament and 30000 inhabitants in San Marino, of the 101 members, we will still have enough. But do not understand as I would like to increase the number of members of the Riigikogu. I am talking about responsibility for the decisions we are facing when we approve the EFSF Framework Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U196	Thank you! Peter Võsa, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U197	Today we are undoubtedly discussing a very important issue. It is a question of giving a little of your own, your little hunger piles to Europe's luxurious feast. But not just that. It is a question of saving money, the euro as such. At least this is how it is being presented to us now that either euro money or the eurozone will survive or not. The bottom line, however, is actually simple: when the money is out and it needs more, the bank can take out a loan. But at some point, the bank won't lend any more. That is, when the borrower is careless or even malicious. If the bank no longer receives a loan, it is always possible to go and ask the neighbour for a debt or to take a SMS loan. It is very good to party for a SMS loan, as we know, but I do not know of cases where a SMS loan could have improved its financial situation. However, we are well aware of cases where the SMS loan offices have pursued debtors with the help of debtors, police, bailiffs, etc. We are currently discussing the exact same kind of SMS loan. If we also give such an SMS loan, then we must realise that we will give this loan with all the consequences. The guarantee, believe me, is quite likely to be paid out, and we will never see that money again. I don't know where your masters are, whose orders you're carrying out here. I don't know how many of you will benefit personally from this deal. I'm sure you know the answer much better. As politician's masters, I live in low forest houses, raise children, receive a few hundred euros of pension and speak Estonian. I am Estonian and Estonian politician. Only the Estonian people can give orders to an Estonian politician. According to the Postimees survey, 80% of Estonians are opposed to the provision of guarantees, although help is in itself accepted. Why has there been no public opinion study on this issue, why this decision is made in such a hurry, without asking for the position of Eesti Pank, and why was the reality of joining the euro zone hidden from us? All of this is because here and now the opinion of the Estonian people is no longer interested in the view of anyone. We have reached the point where the minister takes the courage to call the members of his own people morons. I might vote in favour of this decision, but only after the people have given me the authority to do so. Even if I didn't like it, I wouldn't start calling them morons for it. If the Estonian people have given me a mandate to spread the future tax revenue around the world and push stagnation in my country for decades, I would vote in favour. I don't have that authority right now. So my determination is no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U198	Thank you! Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we decide on such important matters here today, I would like to remind you that all of us have been chosen by the people in this hall. Behind every single voice you've been given is the person who thinks you're the one who best protects his interests. Ask yourself whether you have told him that the Riigikogu is planning to give more than two billion euros, or tens of billions of Estonian kroons, taxpayers' money to a prosperous Europe as a loan guarantee. There's been time! The fact that we, as one of Europe's poorest countries, must start to guarantee the debts of the wealthiest countries was clear long before the elections, long before the New Year's Euroeuphoria, only the amount was open. Why, then, did the Reform Party, the Fatherland or the Social Democrats not tell their voters about this? Why didn't you want to ask the people for permission? People were told we didn't have to give that money. Do people know today that in two days' time in this Chamber, with the votes of these elected delegates, a decision will be taken that will put our future generations into debt slavery and poverty? They don't know that. They have been kept secret because it was not until the summer that the Chairman of the European Union Affairs Commission told the public that Estonia's views on Greek aid were partly classified and that secrecy was common. That's right, under urgent procedure and hidden from the people, it was planned to do things. The whole of Europe is debating, arguing, demonstrating. The Finns had it as the main topic of the election, and we're going to settle it in the silence of the offices. Only through the media have we learned that 80% of the Estonian people oppose this decision. The members of the Riigikogu have obtained their powers from the voters in order to act with taxpayers' money for the benefit of the Estonian electorate. The voters, of course, believed in the rise in the salaries of policemen, teachers and rescuers, still believe in the promise of double pension, believed in the promise to lower home expenses and provide free education, but it is obtained that we are writing more than a third of the state budget in the chimney. Many opinion leaders, bank managers, social figures, political scientists and many others in our society have said that it is embarrassing to hear the government say that it is only a guarantee and not real money. There's a risk! Moreover, however, our contribution to the European Fund for Aid is the highest compared to GDP of 13%. Estonia gives the most. However, if one day the guarantee goes into payment, which is highly probable, then we will have to borrow large sums of money ourselves. We will then become a country of loan slavery ourselves, and the cuts that will then be made, we will no longer be able to imagine. However, I will once again appeal to you who are voting today in favour of giving away taxpayers' money. Do you realize that in Greece and Portugal, 80 to 100% of the former salary in Estonia is barely 40% apart? The average wage in Ireland in the crisis is EUR 4032, in Portugal EUR 1417, in Spain at the threshold of the crisis EUR 2275 and in Italy EUR 2379, while the average in Estonia is only EUR 857. Why does a poor country have to save the rich? Why do you think that debt to live and chronically insolvent countries can even be helped by simply giving them more money, by storing more? Why would a country that has cut hugely, has raised hugely taxes, has reduced wages and pensions and has frozen subsidies for several years help the countries that have been irresponsiblely laundered and borrowed, conflicting with the sense of justice of our people? Why should Estonia borrow money to pay Greek teachers a salary and pension that is much higher than ours? Why must our money go to save the bad loans of European banks and thus the personal property of European elites and moneymen? Why should the Estonian people save the large banks of France and Germany, who have gone too far by lending to Greece? In any case, I am voting against this bill in this Chamber today. Together with this, I will vote for the future of the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U200	Thank you! The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U201	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that yesterday, when there was a debate on the draft law on holidays and holidays and many questions in favour of the coalition, I gently giggled with my benchmate Eldar Efendiev on the subject that coalition ambassadors are now taking the floor a lot, because they usually do not have this opportunity in the Chamber during the debate on important matters. I'm sorry that thought came to my mind! Today I saw that we were still able to speak openly, regardless of party affiliation. This debate was very interesting and it is good that the debate on this subject was finally born in this Chamber. I think it really happened because of the sceptical attitude of the Centre Party to this bill. I was a little amazed by a good colleague, Tõnis Lukas. About half of his speech was that I can safely say that I agree with every word he said, but then he went over to vote in favour of this bill, even though he is against it in his soul. This is what he is doing to ensure that the coalition of government is sustainable, and it must be maintained, inter alia, because it is driving a very proper citizenship policy. I think this may be a completely wrong line of thought, because this federal state, which we are now taking major steps towards, is not really so stubborn in our citizenship policy, so the result may be completely the opposite of what Mr Lukas is seeking. But time will tell. However, when I come back to today's subject, I must say that by Monday I have shaped for myself the view that I am against this draft. Not because I ignore the principles of solidarity. Not at all. But we must, here, have already been talking about this in solidarity with our own people. I listened to Mr Sierdi's explanations today. He used such an argument as 'do not worry' in every other response (I checked the verbatim). In response to Priit Tobal, he even used the expression 'his conviction is that don't worry'. These are not arguments; unfortunately, they do not convince anyone. I was talking about 80% of Estonians objecting to this bill. Mr. Sõerd told me he didn't believe the bill. This is not a question of faith. We were elected here to represent our constituents. However, it turns out that there is no money to increase children's benefits, they have been 19 euros for at least ten years, there is no money to raise teachers' salaries, there is no money to support children's sports, even for doctors who receive eight euros per hour in Estonia, travel across the bay to Finland, where they receive 35 euros per hour and live a much better life than here, we do not have any money. I recently went to Blackwater, talked to the locals, and asked how you were doing. They smiled back at me that everything was fine and everything was great, with two teeth in my mouth, one up and one down. But we don't have any money for dental care. When Mikhail Stalnukhin defended the Chernobyl veterans' bill a few days ago, I remembered that the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that we could not support this bill because there is no economic analysis of the effects it will have. Among other things, there was a ridiculous argument that we do not know whether we can afford these people free recreational fishing, whether our state budget will deliver it. We don't have any money for recreational fishing. In short, there is no money for our people, we cannot show solidarity with our people. We have solidarity with other nations. In fact, Estonians, Estonians have a proud car and a beautiful house, but there are hungry children in the house, there are no furniture in this beautiful house, there are leases, credit cards, etc. Looks fancy, but inside, there's nothing back there. That's a sad story. One more thing: this rake is once again inherent in our policy, because we stepped on the rake even when we entered the euro zone. We probably could have avoided it, but we didn't. Now there's another rake in front of us. We're stepping on it again. I sincerely say to you that if today or tomorrow Parliament votes in favour of this draft, this Parliament will not represent Estonian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U202	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U203	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to sincerely thank the Chancellor of Justice, who contributed significantly to making this draft more constitutional and 100% correct. I would certainly like to thank the officials from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Finance and the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice. We understand that this pace of work, which is imposed not by the Estonian Government, but by the whole of Europe, is very fast. The fact that we have been able to discuss this topic in essence over the summer is one thing. The fact that we were only able to discuss the draft once Europe had agreed on the extension of the EFSF is also a reality. This puts a heavy burden on the officials and it puts a heavy burden on us, but I have no doubt that we can do this very well. Why wouldn't I? In Finland, when we look at the Gulf of Finland, the EFSF draft was presented to Parliament's plenary two days later than to us, but the Finnish Parliament adopted the decision the day before we, or yesterday. In any case, I hope that the process of this decision and further discussions will remain constructive. I very much hope that the entire Riigikogu will understand that we are dealing not only with bailing out debtors here, but above all with ensuring the stability of Europe, and we are also working on saving pension funds and savings for the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U204	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U205	Dear friends and colleagues! I'm trying to be an extremely short speaker. I am suggesting in some way whether there has been a so-called larger kind of discussion in Estonia. After all, we have explained to children that we cannot conduct public surveys on every issue all the time. People's representatives are here to decide these questions. I'm really glad everyone's been talking their asses off in their own way. Just like Tarmo did, so I'm trying to do it. I'm going back in time six or seven years. I was a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I admit that, given my educational baggage, I had an extremely difficult time in that committee. Andres Lipstok, then Chairman of the Monetary Commission, sent me to a debate on the euro in Brussels. When I told Andres that I was not perhaps the most competent person to discuss these matters, he replied that the representative of the people with the child's mouth maybe I am the right person to generalise these things. I remember that I questioned the Maastricht criteria before Commissioner Almunia, whether they were adequate. Lithuania was about to meet the criteria at the time, and we know that it came out of deflation, which is not a good indicator of economic health. But there was also a guest speaker. There was Joseph Stieglitz, an economist, who emphasised one thing that has now come about (of course he spoke of the dollar as a much better project than the euro, although he was also jealous of the euro). He said this sentence: 'You created the currency, but you didn't create the assets. ' (You created the currency, but you did not create the so-called fiscal instruments.) The Americans with the Federal Reserve are still typing more money. They always go there with a bond. If the bond is not filed, the US dollar will fall to the level of the second-third currency. Actually, it's a unique experiment. Europe is forced to do so because we know which centres of power are emerging in the 'great world', the Asian tigers, etc. I think that with this project we will not save Greece, but we will save a European currency that stands on a healthy footing. We can compare it with one big bank: if we increase the credit credibile of the bank, then this bank will also have confidence and everything will move on. As Tarmo mentioned, once, European consolidation seemed like a taboo issue, only some crazy English people spoke about it in the European Parliament. Now they're talking about it. I'm asking you, so what? Because, in fact, as Eiki Nestor mentioned, we have two choices: whether we are looking eastwards, where it has already been said that with the introduction of the euro Estonia has gone for good for them, or whether we are choosing the Western world. Coming to my basic education, I recall the year 732 when Poitiers' battle took place, and Karl Martell stopped the Muslim advance in Europe, even though the Muslim society was at a much higher level than was then a blind Europe. There has been talk about what would have happened if the Muslims had moved on. An example is given: that the white ignorant barbarians won saved Europe because these barbarians had one of the rare qualities of technical innovation. That's what I believe. I also believe in the organization of instruments, and I believe in precisely that we are not saving individual countries, but we are saving a big game. I personally choose a white innovative barbarian. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U206	Thank you! Good fellows! I see you still have your wishes to speak, but there has been a request to the board, and I think it is right to process it now and now. The Reform Party Group proposes to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday, 29 September 2011 until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Jaanus Tamkivi, Chairman of the Reform Party Group, has signed. I am asking the speakers to apologize for the slight delay, the opportunity to speak is still open to you. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Good fellows! Can we go to the vote? Please, procedural question, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U207	Thank you, Mr President. Since the proposal of the Reform Party is likely to confuse the organisation of some of the work planned for today's Riigikogu committees, I ask for a ten-minute break before the vote so that other political groups can also be negotiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U208	Good fellows! The break requested by the Centre Party Group is over. It's 12:18. We can now go to the vote on the proposal of the Reform Party Group. I repeat this proposal: the Reform Party Group proposes to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday 29 September 2011 until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Who is in favour of this proposal? Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 1 member of the Riigikogu is against, there are no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Let's move on with the negotiations. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Deniss Borodichi! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U209	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As we all remember, before joining the euro, we were introduced to the bright side of the euro coin. The euro changeover was designed as a positive economic event, for which the Estonian people suffered painful cuts, because the long-awaited euro had to compensate for it all. Now we can get to know the risks, risks and responsibilities of the other half of the coin that came with us for the inheritance when we joined. At this point, the words of economist Andres Arraku before joining the euro zone are reminded that we are going to the rich and beautiful club only a few days before it collapses, or the words of the former Chancellor of Justice that we are going to the party at the time of paying the bill. Unfortunately, it seems that, in addition to our spending, we must consider that we must also be prepared to pay for the expenditure of other countries in the euro area. There is also no sign of the huge influx of investments into Estonia, which was hoped for and expected in connection with the euro. On the other hand, the price increase that is one of Europe's largest in Estonia stands out for everyone. If the public was not informed of all possible threats before joining the euro, the same mistake must not be made again, and the issue of stability mechanisms must be clarified in isolation. It is true that nothing has happened significantly with the European Union, but unfortunately the whole is exactly as strong as its weakest link. Today, this weak link is Greece, whose crisis is not just Greece's problem, but now it is the concern of the people of the European Union as a whole. The borrower knows exactly that, after concluding a loan agreement with the bank, he is obliged to pay monthly payments. If this is not the case, the borrower will be faced with real sanctions. The lack of current euro area aid packages is largely due to the fact that the countries whose loans we need to guarantee are not fully responsible and do not respect their obligations, precisely because of the lack of concrete and effective sanctions. While the biggest penalty for a home borrower is the forced sale of its real estate, there is virtually no possibility of expulsion from the single currency zone, as the domino effect is feared. In the case of the euro area, the Maastricht criteria had to be a lats that would separate eligible countries from the Common Monetary Union. In reality, however, the Maastricht criteria have not served their purpose. The problem is not the criteria, but the mechanism for implementing them, or rather the lack of such a mechanism. Although a Stability and Growth Pact was adopted in Amsterdam in 1997 to ensure that Member States continue their efforts to maintain fiscal discipline even after the introduction of the single currency, no sanctions have been imposed on any country. The point is that an agreement is needed to impose a sanction, but its conclusion is something like the Eurovision vote, where the neighbour supports the neighbour. Estonia is one of the few countries which, even after joining the euro area, fulfils the Maastricht criteria, yet it does not save us from making commitments in the European Stability Mechanism. The aim of the European Stability Mechanism is to finance the current situation, but it will only work if automatic sanctions can be imposed, without political decision. This is the only way to ensure that the fire is already wiped out in the bud, and we do not need to talk about countries with a debt ratio of more than 60% of GDP in the context of the euro area. Interestingly, the government is trying to show the whole debt crisis as a recent unexpected occurrence. Yet, there were different signs in the air for a long time. In 1998, the public debt of Greece and Italy was already 105,8% and 116,7% of GDP respectively. Thus, both countries exceeded the Maastricht criterion, which already promised a debt ratio of 60% of GDP 12 years ago. Greece also received the first grant in June last year, before Estonia joined the euro area. The risks of the stability mechanisms should therefore have been taken into account before joining the euro area. Although this would be hindsight, the government could still explain whether such risks were taken into account. When granting a guarantee on a loan, each of us wonders what kind of money really needs to be paid when the guarantee comes into effect. To what extent does the government take into account the realisation of the guarantees? I don't know that. So far, it has been said that this is only a guarantee. Therefore, the possibility of the guarantee being enforced has not been taken into account at all. The maximum guarantee amount of EUR 2 billion is one third of our state budget. For example, the entire budget of the Social Insurance Board for this year was only EUR 1.7 billion. This is not a small amount, so participating in the EFSF is probably too much for Estonia. Our constituents, I stress, are the Estonian taxpayer, whose interests must be protected. Joining the EFSF also basically means joining the ESM, which already means five payments of 30 million euros in real money to Estonia. To characterize the size of this sum, let me give you simple examples. For our annual contribution of around EUR 30 million, it would be possible to raise teachers' salaries by 20%. The creation of the euro area was once based on the theory of Robert Mundell's optimal currency union. This theory says that the basis for a functioning union is the similarity of the countries forming a common union. The more similar countries are, the more beneficial the emerging Union will be for all parties involved. The different tax policies of the euro area countries drag us in different directions, rather than joining us, such as swans, pikes and cancer. We can see from the various tax analyses that, although the directives impose restrictions on countries that belong to the European Union, they have not significantly harmonised national tax policies. Among the Member States of the European Union, we find both users of a more progressive tax system and fans of a uniform tax system, as well as different VAT rates in countries. As a result of all this, countries have different social guarantees and, of course, different national budgets positions. In fact, there are more of these arguments. However, in conclusion (the time is limited to eight minutes) it can be said that I and the entire Centre Party do not support participation in the EFSF, as with such decisions, the state is taking on commitments that are clearly beyond our control for several decades. If you are asking how to resolve the current situation, firstly, the fiscal and economic policies of the euro area countries must be harmonised and the situation must be resolved in the same way as the first package of aid with bilateral agreements. Those countries that can allow it do so, but our small country needs to focus on its internal problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U210	Thank you. Kalev Kallo, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U211	Thank you! I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Valeri Korb! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U212	Considering that the Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft for the first time last week on Thursday and the decision to approve is already sought today, the consent of the Riigikogu can be called blackmail. Why the struggle and the secrecy? If the public were to know the financial situation of our country and the economic future of Estonia in general, then the government would have to face pressure from the public so that such a decision would not be taken against Estonia. If the coalition continues to cross both the opposition and society as a whole, this will mean a significant decline in the popularity of the government. Since Ansip does not want to choose either the title of the Prime Minister who is going bankrupt in Estonia or the waiver of the decisions of the EFSF, the choice is secrecy and the suppression of social discussion. In the final vote on this bill, I press the red button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U213	Thank you! Inara Luigas speech chair of the Riigikogu, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U214	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start my speech by talking about the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The work of the Riigikogu and the weak points of the work of the committees actually come out when this draft is being processed. Indeed, if there is a record of the procedures for the drafts in most committees, I must say that there is no record of any kind in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Nor are there any verbatim reports used by us, members of the Riigikogu, members of the Monetary Committee, to monitor one or the other conversation, opinion, debate on a number of occasions. This, in my opinion, is completely unacceptable in the Riigikogu. If you blame me for not requesting a record, I promise that I will make a report on this and ask the Riigikogu's management to organise the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I can also ask exactly that, when Mr Sõerd, the author of the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, spoke about what happened in this chair in the Commission, whose opinion he presented here, either his own opinion or the opinion of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, because we do not have a record. I suspect that it may be good for someone if there is no sign of how the debate on this decision also took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. No sign left behind, and in this hall, we only press the red or green button. It is very unfortunate that this has happened, because the decision that we are making here today is extremely important for Estonia. I am also very sorry that Eesti Pank has not been involved in these discussions. Eesti Pank has somehow left its opinion on the role of an outsider. There is a cooperation agreement between Eesti Pank and the government, according to which Eesti Pank must give the government its opinion on the economic situation. What's the opinion? Unfortunately, we haven't seen or heard it. In my opinion, it is unacceptable that we have not involved civil society organisations. While, in the case of secondary draft laws, we have conducted interviews and asked civil society associations for opinions from associations, from organisations, they are currently completely excluded from this debate. The President of the Republic of Estonia has also acted very quietly, who should intervene quite vigorously in such matters. Nor have I seen any analysis of this draft decision. If you continue to judge this draft decision, I think that joining the EFSF is definitely a crippling decision for Estonian society. I think that this decision is also meaningless in substance, because already the European Union already has everything institutionally in place to advise and order both Greece and the other people who have been taken care of in a literal way. A framework document such as the Stability and Growth Pact has been adopted in the European Union. It is a rule-based framework aimed specifically at coordinating the fiscal policies of the countries forming part of the Economic and Monetary Union, assessing budgetary forecasts and also monitoring. After all, the Pact was adopted in order to maintain the finances of the Member States. We were also talking about this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Specialist at the Ministry of Finance, Andrus Säälik, answered our question as to why this pact has not been used for Greece and other Member States. This pact also provides for sanctions to be imposed on Member States. If we know that the Stability and Growth Pact does not organise the public finances of the European Member States and the Member States do not want sanctions to be imposed, why do we have to think that the EFSF documents, precepts, framework agreements should organise the public finances of the Member States and organise their own actions and order themselves? I think we are putting this bill in the tank of the Estonian people, literally. If this decision still applies and all guarantees turn against Estonia, how will the Estonian state budget begin to behave? What commitments can we make in the future to clean up our domestic economy? What do people, the Estonian people, have to do to pay all these taxes, to pay off the loans that we have committed to? I think that it is high time for the Estonian state to deal with its domestic adjustment, and I think that this additional debt is far from being able to cure the excessive debt burden. We all hope that the time will come in Estonia once, too, when not only the rescue of the Member States will be dealt with, but the government will discuss substantive issues and will also wish to ensure the well-being of our own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U215	Thank you! Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Olga Sõtnik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U216	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As many of my colleagues from the Centre Party have mentioned here today, we cannot support the 90 draft decisions currently under discussion, for quite a number of reasons. Firstly, the size of the loan guarantees granted to EFSF is clearly beyond Estonia's control. EUR 2.5 billion, which is the amount of our guarantee, is about 40% of this year's state budget, and this is a very large amount for our small country and our population. For 2.5 billion euros, it would probably be possible to implement or at least start a very large number of projects that are important for Estonia, whether it be a four-line project of the Tallinn road, the Rail Baltica project, the construction of a bridge or tunnel between Saaremaa and the mainland, or the repetition of all Estonian schools and kindergartens. We are trying to instil that these 2.5 billion are only guarantees that may not be in place and, if they do, not to such an extent. However, each guarantee must take into account the possibility that it may be applied for enforcement. As Hardo Pajula, an economist from SEB, said to the national broadcasting news portal today, the probability that in some part, although not necessarily in full, the guarantee becomes a real obligation is quite large and, unfortunately, it grows every day. When this day comes, will we be able to bear such a financial obligation? It is still unclear to what extent this amount is financed from reserves and to which extent the loans to be granted will be covered. If the loan is to be taken on what terms and for how long? Minister Ligi often uses the phrase that there is no living for the future, indicating that it is irresponsible to make current expenditure and also to invest in loans. At the same time, if this guarantee is to be implemented, we must put our own and our children's future at risk for the well-being of the other countries that are better off. Secondly, there are already rumors that the EUR 440 billion that the euro area Member States intend to contribute to the EFSF will not be enough and the fund will have to be increased to EUR 2 trillion (two trillion, that is 2 and 12 more zero, that is a very large amount) and some experts believe that there may be little of this amount. What, then, will Estonia's participation in the fund and the amount of the guarantee be? Will we remain forever a country that will serve debts taken to help countries whose standard of living is many times higher than our own? Thirdly, we do not have the certainty that this money is actually going to help these countries. More and more we hear that this money is actually meant to save big banks. Today's Estonian Päevaleht also writes about this, where the opinion story of the President of the Slovak Parliament appeared. There he says, among other things, that the Slovak Parliament managed to suspend its participation in the first Greek aid package, which saved EUR 800 million of Slovak taxpayers' money, while at the same time voting in favour of joining the EFSF, because it was presented as a temporary rescue mechanism that saves countries and not banks. As we now know, this is no longer true with EFSF and he regrets that they were so good faith back then. Fourthly, we do not have the confidence that, with the help of the EFSF, we will be able to save Europe from the debt crisis and make it a competitive player in the world again. Currently, debt-indebted countries are being rescued by new debts. This scheme has been described as a fire extinguisher with petrol as well as a booze bottle for a drunkard. Who gives us the guarantee that if we contribute to this fund, it will really save the eurozone countries from an even greater crisis? Fifthly, we cannot agree in any way that such an important draft decision will be dealt with at this speed. The draft, by which we take on responsibilities both for ourselves and for our children, will be adopted in essence within three days. Parliament will once again be used as a rubber stamp so that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance can hear praises from their colleagues in Brussels. Of course, none of us want a break-up of the euro zone and an unstable region, and if we vote against this draft decision, we will not be praised in Brussels. However, as Mr Sulík, the President of the Slovak Parliament, mentioned here today, rightly said: 'If we do not vote in favour, we can look our children in the eye with a clear conscience. ' On the basis of all these arguments, neither I personally nor all the members of the Central Party Group support the adoption of this decision, and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U217	Thank you. Good fellows! It's 2:03 p.m. and the hearing's over. We will continue to deal with bill 90 at today's second additional session. I thank you and wish you strength! Closure of the sitting at 2.04 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U218	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the main issues at present in the parliamentary work and in Estonia's foreign and economic policy in general is the persistence of the unity of the euro area and the search for alternatives to survive the economic crisis in Europe. Perhaps in the language of the people: the Greek problem and the talk about whether and how much we Estonians, who live in poverty in large parts, should pay for it. There have been laws in the world for thousands of years, but the existence of laws has not prevented their violation. In the same way, the rules in force in the euro area have not led countries to comply with these rules and have not prevented overliving and dropping abilities, resulting in insolvency in southern European countries. What are the benefits of EFSF? The Riigikogu's proceedings include a draft decision on "Enforcement of obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on Financial Stability Fund for Europe and its amendments'. The essence of the decision is that Estonia will make a commitment to guarantee debt obligations of nearly EUR 2 billion under the EFSF Framework Agreement to support euro area Member States in financial difficulties. The aim of the support is to ensure the overall financial stability of the euro area and to protect its Member States from financial crises. Both the draft decision and the Ansip Government are saying a reassuring story that it is only a guarantee, that it is unlikely that the guarantee will be realised and that the eurozone will not be in any crisis at all. However, if we look at the real situation in Greece and instead of successful reforms, there are threats from civil war and strikes, it is more than certain that today's guarantee is tomorrow's money, which we will pay, so that the sweat will fly. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be hostile to Greece and certainly not to undermine European solidarity, but it is inevitable that I have been elected here to represent the Estonian people and to stand up for the interests of the Estonian people. That is why I cannot take this matter lightly, and I must talk about the dangers that exist there, because I believe that hastyness can harm the interests of our country. Where should the Estonian state take two billion euros? This is an amount of around one third of the 2012 state budget. We are told much about the lack of money for teachers and whether they go to another job or even to another country. We're being whispered about mass layoffs waiting for police officers and rescue workers because there's just no money. We've got more and more kids who have school food as their only chance of getting hot food. We have very many underfunded areas that have pushed our country into a socio-economic decline, but now all of a sudden we want to take a decision that can freely give away a third of our national budget in the future. If this is not a malicious and serious mismanagement at national level, what is it? If in Greece the money does not start growing on trees and it does not become freely available to everyone, then we will soon see Greece bankrupt, and if the Estonian state has granted its guarantee of two billion euros, unfortunately Estonia will also be bankrupt. If the purpose of the EFSF is to borrow money from the markets on the basis of state guarantees, countries wishing to help those in trouble could still borrow money directly from the markets to those in need. Thus, the EFSF does not add anything, but it forces all aides to take one step, while at the same time ignoring the different levels of development and internal economic policy problems in the countries. I have the impression that the government is acting undercover to keep the public from being irritated. The government has begun to push through the EFSF decision as quietly as possible, almost in secret. Riigikogu members are advised not to ask irritating questions and people are not spoken to at all. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi recommends that the Riigikogu not make jokes and deal with the draft quickly. It is claimed that the discussion train is gone and that elementary statesmanship requires rapid confirmation of the draft with a rubber stamp. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U219	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair for Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U220	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't remember this emotional session of the Riigikogu for a very long time. I think that the need to debate the different points of gravity so passionately has now become a very good satisfaction. My colleagues have also spoken with great passion today; they have described their mandate and talked about different emotions. In principle, the Estonian people are probably right. These are my good colleagues from the Centre Party who are interacting with their constituents. Indeed, it is difficult for the people of Estonia to understand what is happening. Likewise, I see certain tensions on the side of the coalition. I cannot say that I would welcome this, because when a person is tense, his nerve cells are destroyed and, as we know, they are not supposed to recover, but I certainly like that there are different opinions in the coalition too, just as there are different views in the opposition. I am one of the citizens who may not have been so busy discussing this issue with their constituents, but I have been discussing it with my colleagues and myself, particularly from an economic point of view. At second reading, a person primarily represents himself as a MP. Personally, it seems to me that we are dealing with the wrong issue. It is very difficult for me to understand how the euro area countries, which have a total of 17, are forming a single public limited company in order to save the financial stability of the euro area. In my opinion, the use of such an instrument shows that the system is in crisis and perhaps not only should this crisis be regulated, but should also be dealt with in parallel to resolving the situation so that such problems do not arise in the future. If we look at the world, we will see that there is an economy in the United States where one man is very clearly in possession of substantive decisions. Unfortunately, the wrong decisions made in the US have also shown us that the concentration of substantive decisions at a very narrow peak can lead to the emergence of wrong policies. The US economy, especially finance, is currently not in a very good position. The Brazilian economy is rising, and somewhere on the edge of the pedestal, it is also pushing for decision-makers. It is very clear that China's finances are strong; China's effects on US finances are also very decent. It's a very narrow circle to decide. India doesn't come into play yet, but he's scrambling by the pedestal. Wherever there is any potential, the decision-making mechanisms are fundamentally different from those in the European Union. The question of whether we are moving or should be moving, or whether there is a risk that we are moving towards the European United States, where the decision-making mechanism would be relatively narrow, has come out of today's speeches quite several times. Then we could avoid all the problems that perhaps sometimes irresponsible countries and, above all, their governments have created. With this, we would actually take the tension off the euro area. The Estonian people should not feel insulted in any way either. The Estonian people must never forget how much money the European Union has pumped into this place. It's also been someone's money. I understand very clearly the honourable MPs: if the problem is in the future, it is quite pointless and sometimes poor to recall what has been. I myself was among those who dared to say, when joining the euro zone, that I would not like to lie with a sick bride or, even worse, with a dead bride (I mean the euro). Therefore, we ourselves incomprehensiblely, fighting about Greece, which is not the most important issue, Greece has not even joined the package yet, is not talking about the fact that the worst choice for us has come to the table, the combined states of Europe, which means that the state independence of the Republic of Estonia is almost coming to an end. I am not very sure that I would not want to be part of a proper Union in which, as is said, peace and stability would prevail, and we could start by comparing our national indicators that reflect people's well-being, for example, with Greece or, better yet, with Luxembourg. A pension of EUR 9000 is fine with me; I want this Estonia. The question is still much, much wider. We are in a situation where we are making policies, but in the long term, financial stability is as important to us as it is to anyone else. Taavi Kõivas, a good colleague, a wise young man whom I have always appreciated, said in his speech that we are trying to prevent insolvency. I'm asking you if there's any reason to prevent insolvency under certain circumstances. We try to prevent insolvency and give state guarantees by the Estonian state. The guarantee is essentially equal to the loan obligation in terms of banking. For example, if you guarantee someone with your personal property who behaves foolishly and if that fool does not pay off the money, your warranty will be enforced. I feel like Greece should be let go. But whether or not we should struggle with our little claim in this bankruptcies or not, that is the real question today. Maybe it's wise to struggle. Maybe we can get some attractive property from this bankruptcies to treat the sick soul of the Estonian people, as they say, under the nice Greek sun? I don't know that. But I am of the opinion that financial stability is something that the Centre Party considers important. With the Reform Party and the People's Union in government, the Centre Party was certainly also a proponent of a stable monetary policy. Understand, we are opposed to the possibility that such anarchy will develop in Europe, some strange public limited company will be formed, so we cannot really talk about a stable European Union where proper order is maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U221	Thank you! Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and in the offices in front of the TV screens! The handling of the bill is so frustrating that it is difficult to put into words. On the initiative of the government, there have been earlier drafts in this Chamber, which have been made in an urgent manner, such as the draft law on the exemption from land tax, the draft law on the restraint of monopolies or the draft law on equality, which instead of better guaranteeing women's rights, increased the number of members of the Tallinn City Council from 63 to 79. They are now coming and trying to hide their past mistakes in a hurry, propagandistly placing them at the hands of the Greeks. But who told the government departments to lie on the following points a month before the Riigikogu elections? Firstly, an increase in financial security was promised; secondly, more investment was promised; thirdly, more jobs were promised; and fourthly, the euro was not allowed to increase prices. Now the Ansip-led government doesn't want to be held responsible for the lies they spread. It is said that we are a European model, that we are all admired, that the whole of Europe takes us as an example, that everyone claps. But that's wishful thinking, talk for voices, talk for naives. This talk does not reflect the real situation of the Estonian people or our real prospects. It seems that the Estonian state is not needed for the local people, but the Estonian state is needed to boost the political ego of one political group. Maybe somebody's gonna give you a high-ranking job or a high-ranking award. I fully agree that a strong euro is in the interests of Estonia, but it is embarrassing, frustrating and fluent in the welfare of our people to run the country in the way that the current political majority wants to do here in the Riigikogu. It is high time for the government departments to apologise to the Estonian people for not being able to anticipate the dangers and reefs we face before joining the euro area. All that's going on is the cost of vanity and stupidity. Why have the representatives of the German and French banks not been publicized or asked what role and responsibility they have in this crisis? It was they who kindly offered money in southern Europe, and we are saving the future of these banks here today. The government still thinks that it is only enough for governance to be conducted by the Minister of Finance. It's not enough. The state of Estonia is much bigger than the gatherings of finance ministers in the euro area. The inability of the Ansip government to communicate with the opposition, with scientists, with its people will cost us too much. That is why I am voting against the draft today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U223	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Lauri Laas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U224	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have asked a lot in this Chamber in recent days about Estonia's participation in the European solidarity package and received various answers. There have been specific answers, there has been confusion and embellishment, but there will certainly be something left unsold. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that there is a discussion that should have taken place already before coming to Riigikogu with this draft decision. Mr Sõerd confirmed today that the people have not been asked what they think about this issue. At the same time, the media media mediate their own survey, according to which a large proportion, about 80% of the Estonian people, are opposed to granting such a guarantee. The government is not interested in the opinion of the electorate; this attitude has glowed through all the media. Why can't a person know what's going on in Estonia? Our decisions today affect us all. We need to know to whom we have promised what we have promised and what our real responsibilities will be for the coming years as well as for the distant future. The government loves to highlight Estonia's magnificent position in Europe and tries to silence the concerns about the future. It hasn't worked for a long time. It is understandable that problems arise and need to be resolved. Why do we always tend to push the problems to the critical limit and then race with time? This tactic overshadows all the actions of the current government. For example, every new minister is rushing to rescue the country with his reforms, but perhaps it would be worth thinking about what to do and how to do and perhaps it will be possible to improve the existing system without radically changing it. All of this is a great cost and a great burden for taxpayers. Coming back to guaranteeing the loan, it has to be said that over the past few days it has become clear that the amounts guaranteed may not be what we discussed today tomorrow. Also today's guarantee may prove to be real money tomorrow, which will have to be handed over to those in need. It's making me nervous. Where does Estonia take real money to fulfil such an obligation? Since we are an exemplary country, according to the government, we will receive a loan in a favourable way, and we will also borrow this money in order to fulfil this obligation, only that this loan will have to be paid up by our taxpayer. Today we do not yet perceive this burden, because it is still on paper, but if the guarantee is enforced, what will inevitably happen in countries with bad tax behaviour, how will we explain this to the people of Estonia, who themselves will barely end up with the end? Why do our people need to support someone else instead of supporting their parents and children, to support those who live better than us and dare to fight for their well - being, with sticks in their hands? If the government is in trouble, i.e. lack of resources for both internal management and loan payment, then we have survived beyond our means. We worked hard to meet the euro criteria, we worked hard because we wanted a better life, we were willing to pay for the better. But what happened? Are we better off as a result of this effort? No, we're not, but now we're trying to make sure someone else is better. Why aren't we in love with our people? They have trusted us and we must not abuse their trust. We are obliged to stand up for the well-being of our people. Despite all the respect for the fighters for the EFSF, I must say that what is being said here is not convincing, because there is a lot of uncertainty. I have to admit, for you, too. That's why we should take some time off before we decide what's so important. No matter how much we want solidarity, we cannot offer solidarity blindly. More than 20 years ago, when the Estonian people fought for their independence, one of the most resounding slogans was that we eat potato peel, but we are free. Very few at the time thought that freedom was nothing more than the slavery we choose for ourselves. After that, a new choice came when we decided to join the European Union. The only party that dared to discuss the problems that awaited us in connection with the accession of the European Union was the Centre Party, and for this it received full force. After that, we chose the euro. Of course, in retrospect and looking forward, perhaps this choice was the right one, because our own currency was nothing more than EUR 1/8 and we had to adhere strictly to these standards. Today we make a decision that will affect our lives for very long years. If, as Mr Sõerd said, we have not yet analysed all the risks, is it not high time to take time off and think about what will happen if it goes differently than it is written on paper? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U225	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U226	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U227	Thank you! Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U228	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I look back a little bit, remember when our beloved Estonia went to the euro. It's only nine months. I wonder how little was said to our people before that, how little was introduced to the situation we are actually in. I do not recall being told that, for example, Greece is failing, that Greece already received EUR 110 billion in aid in May 2010, but in November 2010, EUR 85 billion in aid was granted to Ireland. We joined the euro area on 1 January. No one dared talk about it back then. There was talk of our happiness in getting rich, getting big investments, and telling us how bad our neighbors are doing to the Latvians. In a few years' time, I suggest you see where the Latvians are, who we've quite often mocked, and where we are. There is a great deal of talk about the solidarity of the European Union. For me, this solidarity is somehow difficult to understand. We are only talking about financial solidarity, but we could talk about solidarity in the sense of how people live and what this wealth has been gained in these countries. Apparently, this wealth is beyond living abilities and borrowing abilities. I have asked two questions to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and two questions to member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Aivar Sõerd, about whether the Estonian taxpayer will ever pay off those loans, which in any case must be erased. They have not answered this question directly, but people who know the credit burden in these countries and who have been in contact with the economy at all say that it is not really possible to save these countries with additional injections of money. If the debt burden is at EUR 300 billion and a few days ago it was reported that the country is prepared to save between EUR 5 and 7 billion, then, forgive me, there is not even enough money to refinance the interest on the loan or pay off the interest on the loan, not to mention that the principal debt will ever be paid. The result can only be debt write-offs. Should our taxpayer also be involved in repaying those debts that he has not been absolutely involved in? I do not want that to happen. Another sad thing is that we support wealthy countries with our money. There's nothing to do, our people are moving to where there's wealth. In essence, with our taxpayers' money, we also favour people leaving our country. Please follow the polls of the last few days. People are increasingly leaving Estonia. I'm asking you, is that our goal? The reason why I am not voting in favour of this draft today is because there has been little talk about it, that it is being rushed to accept it and that it is not talking about the consequences that lie ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U229	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U230	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! I came here today to speak with the newspaper The Evening Paper, about which our finance minister, the best finance minister in Europe (the last one was Sõerd, I remember), said that this paper was made by morons. So you can imagine that the minister's party doesn't read this page. That's why I'm going to introduce this paper to an article today that tells us exactly about our subject. At all, we have not yet addressed the issue of what the world currently thinks, what Europe thinks and what the foreign press has written about the situation in this Chamber. 'What about Greece? Germany considers bankruptcy' is the title of this story. It's made based on the materials of the newspaper Bild and it's quite interesting to read. I quote Õhtulehte (I think the Evening Paper is one of the closest newspapers in Estonia): 'Greek Prime Minister Georgios Papandreou promised on Tuesday in Berlin that his country could overcome the debt crisis. The German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, praised his colleague and promised Greece full assistance on this path. However, the overall picture is not so rosy, as according to the newspaper Bild, the German Government considers that Greece is going bankrupt by Christmas. 'The situation is hopeless' puts the Evening Paper here under the heading and writes: 'Probably this time Greece will be given mercy, and the government there will receive these eight billion. That's enough money for the rest of the year. So what happens now? In order to remain on the water of Greece, new financial allocations are needed, and given the state of the economy there, there is no hope at present (Listen carefully now! (H.L.) that the State would be able to repay the loans granted to the aid at any time. ' That's what Germany's big newspaper thinks. According to the newspaper Bild, the German government coalition now considers the real option that Greece will become insolvent by the end of this year. The paper also paints a picture of how this bankruptcy is announced. That's a pretty interesting reading. It is likely that the Greek Prime Minister, in order to report to the public on television, together with bankruptcy, the departure from the euro zone, will necessarily take a late Friday night, at such a time as the New York Stock Exchange has already completed its work. It allows foreign investors to pay out 50% of the value of government bonds. Let me remind you, Lenin paid out 0% in 1917. Greece promises to pay out 50% within 30 years. This reduces Greece's debt from EUR 350 billion to EUR 175 billion. This is the amount that Greece can take care of itself, without the help of the European Union. So that's the picture today. The Bundestag also voted on this issue. I think this vote is over, it was supposed to be at 11:00 our time, but I haven't read the news yet. Germany voted to support EUR 211 billion. New powers will enable countries in need of assistance to provide preventive loans from the rescue fund and also to use money to recapitalise banks and support the purchase of euro-area government bonds. In the last few days, Angela Merkel put all her power into play to ensure that Parliament would support the new powers of the Fund. According to Bild, the Chancellor of the Union understands that an increase in the rescue fund is essential, as many banks in the euro area, namely banks and bankers, who bear billions of losses, must be supported if Greece goes bankrupt. I'm not gonna finish this story. I think that's enough. Anyone can read it for themselves. In short, today's Evening Paper, quoting Bild, speaks exactly the same thing that has been said today on the left side of the hall. Estonia's aid amount, EUR 2 billion, is relatively higher than GDP, which has also been confirmed in the Western press. I think we are on the right track to defend the future of the Estonian people. I don't want to pay off this debt and lose it from the Estonian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U231	Yeah, he can. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U232	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'd like to take extra time off as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U233	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Heimar Leng!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U234	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in the Chamber of Riigikogu, we are discussing a really important issue for us, the fate of a guarantee of EUR 2 billion. This is a third of the volume of our state budget, and that should say it all by now. By decision, Estonia pledges to guarantee debt obligations of up to EUR 1.9 billion under the EFSF Framework Agreement to support euro area Member States in exceptional financial difficulties with a view to ensuring the overall financial stability of the euro area and protecting its Member States from financial crises. It is a public secret that the Estonian Government wants to look good in the European Union. This could also be seen in the government's activities some years ago. Everywhere possible, their people were cut and left to the part of the orphan. We know that the aim was to meet the Maastricht criteria at a time when no other country did. Why didn't they do it? Because they stimulated the economy with various subsidies. Estonia chose another strategy. Our people suffered huge cuts during the economic crisis. If this guarantee were to materialise, the people of Estonia would have to go through this path of suffering for the second time. Somehow this possibility is not taken into account. However, Indrek Neivelt has rightly said that risk is a risk, regardless of whether you give a guarantee or a loan. The probability of the guarantee being realised exists and becomes more likely every day. Somehow, the problem of Greece must be solved. Indrek Neivelt has summed up the situation of problem countries very well in his blog: 'It is quite unlikely that the so-called problem states will be able to serve their debts. The debt burden is high and could only be served in the event of low interest rates and simultaneous economic growth. Interest is low today, but the economy isn't growing. They are likely to be able to manage the loan even if, for example, they do not have to pay interest for ten years or if inflation increases. Otherwise, no. ' On the basis of this section, clear conclusions can be drawn on the possibility of the Estonian guarantee being realised. The euro area finance ministers postponed the decision in October on whether to pay out the next EUR 8 billion of aid loans to Greece, which Greece needs to pay its bills. There were also problems with compliance during the summer, which is why the planned aid loan payment was postponed in order to put a little pressure on Greece. It is clear that the EFSF is not going to save Greece or any other country, but rather European banks who have been irresponsible in their activities. Does the Estonian taxpayer want to go with his own savings to save European banks? I don't think so. Yet, unfortunately, the government coalition wants to do so. The situation of rescue, police and educational workers is important for the Estonian people. Much has been said that Europe must jointly and severally put an end to the fire in the financial markets, while our own national rescue capacity is, to put it mildly, non-existent. Once again, we get there because the government likes to show, but not be. If we were indeed among the five richest countries in Europe and should guarantee EUR 2 billion, our opinion in this regard would be different. But from the European TOP 5, we're light years away. Today, we do not have enough money for our own people, let alone for another Europe. This guarantee is too much for Estonia, and that is a fact. Estonia will go with this decision to support significantly richer countries and peoples. Ladies and gentlemen, It is wrong to say that the EFSF does not involve real cash payments. The European Stability Mechanism will be operational in 2013, which will also take over the obligations of the EFSF. Joining the European Stability Mechanism actually means five payments of 30 million euros to Estonia. Although it is legally two completely different things, how is it possible to join the EFSF, but not to join the European Stability Mechanism in 2013? Consequently, joining the ESM has also been decided for Estonia, and there will be a 20% increase in the salaries of our teachers in the first year, an increase in the wages of our rescuers and police officers in the second year and an increase to 11.9% in the share of income tax already received by local governments in the third year. Against this background, it is strange for the Minister to go to a teacher's demonstration and say that there is no money for a raise. Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party does not support participation in the EFSF. With such a decision, the state will assume commitments that are clearly beyond our control for several decades. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U235	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U236	Thank you. I ask Viktor Vassilyev of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U237	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'm going to tell you anything very strikingly new, but there are still things in my heart that I want to say. I hope that it will not remain a voice in the Riigikogu. The things you are very well aware of are, for example, the well-known truth that each coin has two sides and each process, for each case there are always two options. We've talked a lot about guarantees here. Yes, at the beginning, we were assured by a number of very authoritative individuals that the probability of the guarantees being realised was close to zero. However, there are always two possibilities: there is a possibility that it will materialise, and there is a possibility that it will not materialise. Today, a good colleague, Aivar Sõerd, said at least two times that there really are two possibilities: whether or not it is realised. When I asked him whether both options had been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I did not get a clear answer. There are two options here too: whether or not to participate in the aid package. Very much has been said about how to participate, in what way, but the scenario that will happen if we do not participate has not been discussed at all. It's an opportunity, too. We've been told there's a certain risk. A good colleague, Sõerd, also said from this very remote point that the risk that the guarantee would materialise is unlikely. But I also know a little bit about risk assessment. When risks are assessed, two criteria are assessed: the likelihood of risk and the importance of risk. We don't know how likely that risk is, and we don't know if the analysis is done. But we know very well that if this guarantee materialises, this risk will be immensely important. So there's no way to overlook that risk. I'd say this thing is quite a Trojan horse that the Greeks have rolled here for us. We remember well from Greek literature that there were skeptics back then who said, "Don't touch that horse, Trojans! ' Even now there are skeptics, not only those sitting on my left side of the hall, but there are also banking figures among the skeptics, very educated people, there are skeptics outside Estonia. Today's news is that Poland is delaying the adoption of the euro, and they have announced that they will postpone it until the euro zone has stabilised. What do they mean, the end of Troy's war, I don't know. But in any case, the Trojans didn't listen to the skeptics at the time, and it ended badly. Anyway, we're seeing something moving inside that horse right now. So there's a real risk. We have been assured that our economic position is very good, and it will stand perfectly as the guarantees gradually begin to materialise in part. Come on, does this good economic situation of ours suffer the loss of a third of the budget? I don't think so. At all, this whole game is going, you know it as well as I do, quite far from Estonia. May I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U238	If you wish, you may ask. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U239	Thank you. There are actually banks in trouble, and these are not small banks. The Greek loan is clearly not repaid. If the guarantees materialise, we do not have the money and we are going to take it from the big banks, be they French or German banks, and it is feared that we will take it from the same bank as Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Estonia, wherever it comes from. The bank's moving this money from one pocket to another, maybe he's playing this game in the same pocket that we don't have any pleasure about. You see, we have often been told not to go after the Greeks now, they are not so bad. Prime Minister Ansip, honored him, also said very nicely that leave the Greeks alone, and they do not only drink ouzo and dance Sirtak. Indeed, Estonian tourists drink ouzot and dance Sirtak, when they get to Greece, I have even done so. But I see this in such a way that the Greek state has taken good care of its pensioners, its employees, its inhabitants. Their pensions are high, salaries are good, holidays are long, the climate is not government-making, but it is also good. Look at what has happened in Estonia. In Estonia, wages are low, pensions are non-existent, doctors are fleeing, teachers live from party to mouth, rescue officers are laid off. All in order to keep our budget balanced, for God's sakes, so that we do not look bad in any way, that we are Europe's good children. In Greece, it was decided differently: let the state be in debt. What is the country's most important resource? In Greece, it is a nation. There you go. When talking about the Greek aid package, the Minister of Finance gave a vivid example that if the neighbour's house is on fire, don't think, just take a bucket and start erasing. I say that the whole street is actually on fire, now there's no time to look for a bucket, but we have to get what happens on TV, sheets and a picture of a mother-in-law, and get out of the house. I certainly do not support participation in this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U240	Good evening, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the first additional session of the third working week of the second session of the Riigikogu, which will last until the agenda is exhausted. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is now another opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U241	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I can surprise everyone right now. The Economic Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu gives the draft law amending the Estonian Development Fund Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The Estonian Development Fund was founded with the aim of stimulating and supporting changes in the Estonian economy, which help to modernise the economy, ensure growth in exports and create new, highly skilled jobs. This draft amends the financing scheme for the development fund. This scheme ensures public venture capital investments in line with market practices in this sector on a transparent and as much as possible basis as in the private sector. The draft specifies the principles and procedures for the investment activity of a development fund in the case of a new financing scheme and the requirements for the operation of a subsidiary management company of a development fund. The purpose of the draft is to enable the State to acquire the units and shares of a venture capital fund managed by a management company established by a development fund under the Investment Funds Act. In addition, the draft amends the principle of financing the operational expenditure of the Development Fund, including monitoring of development, and specifies the content of the operations to be carried out in relation to development monitoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U242	Thank you. Now please, Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U243	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U244	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. Messages. First, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: (1) The Government of the Republic s. a Draft State Budget Act 2012, initiated on 28 September 2012, Leading Commission, Finance Committee; 2) in the Government of the Republic. A draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of a local government unit, the Act on artificial insemination and embryo protection, the Act on unemployment insurance and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Finance Committee. Secondly, on 29 September, on the proposal of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the Board of the Riigikogu decided to convene the third additional session of the Riigikogu one and a half hours after the end of the second additional session on 29 September, and the President of the Riigikogu, in accordance with § 49 (3) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, convened a supplementary session of the Riigikogu for the continuation of the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision on 'Ensurement of compliance with the European Financial Stability Fund Framework Agreement and the obligations arising from its amendments'. Thirdly, the women of the Riigikogu have formed a Women's Association of the Riigikogu. Requesting presence check! 74 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 27.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U245	We can start working on our additional sitting. On the agenda is § 402 of the State Budget Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group... Please, what is the procedural question? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U246	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I have a procedural question with regard to one of the messages you read out and regarding the summoning of the third additional sitting of the Riigikogu. You said that the third additional sitting would be convened in the Chamber of Toompea Castle. a on September 29, 2004. I broke the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act and reached § 49 (3), which talks about the convening of an additional sitting. It states that an additional sitting will be convened by the Chairman of the Riigikogu, which is perfectly understandable and included in the notice. However, it has also been said here that an additional sitting will be convened at least three days before the additional sitting. As far as I know, today is September 29th and an additional sitting was called on September 29th.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U247	Dear colleague, please read this paragraph to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U248	Yeah! Read more here: if there are compelling reasons, the notice period may be shorter. As a member of the Riigikogu, I ask you what these compelling reasons were. And when I read that there are 'big reasons' in the law, I mean, there must have been several reasons. What are the compelling reasons why the Riigikogu Board and as your chairman called an additional sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U249	There are very serious compelling reasons for everyone to have a very thorough discussion. Unfortunately, we missed this discussion. Kadri Samson had his hand up. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U250	Thank you. Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! If you want to give everyone the opportunity to discuss participation in the EFSF, the Group of the Central Party of the Riigikogu has proposed that this issue should be discussed in the plenary chamber of the Riigikogu as an important national issue before the final vote. The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu has expressed its support in principle. It would probably make more sense to have such a discussion first and then, in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, in three days' time, to have a final debate on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U251	Mr Simson, my dear colleague. Indeed, it would have been very good if this debate had taken place. However, we have already begun to discuss this law and now we are starting to discuss this issue as a matter of national importance, I see no reason why we should be doing this now in the meantime. The debate on this law really should have come as I proposed in my opening speech, and I think we could now continue the debate on this law, because we have dealt with it very seriously. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U252	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. You have no doubt mentioned one compelling reason which was the basis for calling this third additional sitting, but I repeat that § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu refers to the convening of an additional sitting and mentions compelling reasons, i.e. these reasons are plural. There's one reason you mentioned. What are the other compelling reasons why you decided to convene the third additional sitting of the Riigikogu today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U253	For me, one very important reason is the message that I received: the German Bundestag supported an analogous draft with a large majority. You understand the Germans are taking on the lion's share of this responsibility. Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U254	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to get one thing right now: Kadri Simson is giving the big hall the wrong information. The Committee on Finance did not agree that this issue would be discussed as a matter of national importance before the second or third reading and the adoption of the draft law. While the Committee on Monetary Affairs has agreed that this issue will be discussed as a matter of national importance in the near future, after the end of the second and third readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U255	Ladies and gentlemen, if there is now another question as to whether I have very many compelling reasons, my compelling reason is that we will continue to work. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U256	Thank you. Well, there's a difference in the interpretation of who's the cause. My second question also concerns the procedure and this time it concerns § 53 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, which states that the issues that have not been discussed during the previous working week of the House will be put on the agenda of the new working week first. As I recall, our last regular session of this week ended at 2 a.m. on the day of the week, and the agenda was suspended at the 90th draft decision. I read here that this issue should be discussed further at the next regular working week, in early October. How do you understand this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U257	I understand from this point that we have already taken the decision before that that we will have further meetings and, at the second supplementary sitting, we will be discussing precisely this draft law. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U258	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! I put it to you that, without compelling reasons, there is no point in ignoring the Riigikogu's domestic and working order. If the first compelling reason for you was that the Riigikogu wanted to discuss this draft, then the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to discuss the draft in three working days' time, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U259	Dear colleague, two days ago I told you that there would be two additional sessions in which we would discuss both issues, so it was already known to everyone. Since we did not have time today to conclude the first question, i.e. the 90 OE debate, we will continue this debate now, and that is a valid reason for me. If you have a proposal to the Bureau, please submit it in writing. Let's get back to work. As a second-reading rapporteur, I call on Mr Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to speak on the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U260	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the bill 95 at its meeting on 27, 28 and 29 September and made the following changes to the draft. Paragraph 402 of the State Budget Act is supplemented by paragraph 32 in the form of a more precise basis for guaranteeing EFSF debt. § 1521 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu is also supplemented by laying down the right of the Riigikogu to require the Government to submit to the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs a matter on which the Riigikogu considers it important to give an opinion. The title of the draft is also supplemented. No further changes were required by the deadline for tabling amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and send it to the third reading. There were 8 members in favour of this proposal and 3 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs against it, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U261	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. You have questions too. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U262	Thank you. Dear Aivar Sõerd! Did the members of the Riigikogu also note the President's speech here in the Riigikogu at the beginning of this season, where the President said that the laws that begin with the amendment of one law and to which the amendment of another law is added on one side of the procedure are not good practice? At present, the title of our pending draft law has changed again, i.e. the amendment of another law has been added. Was it practical, and why? Wouldn't it have been better to initiate the amendment of the second law, or the law on home and working procedures, properly, as an independent amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U263	Thank you. No, that is not the way we discussed it, and I believe that the Commission considered the draft text to be correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U264	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law which has been tabled by the commission and which has been fully taken into account. This means that the second reading of bill 95 is complete. It's 5:15. We'll resume the next session at 6:15. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U265	Dear Riigikogu, it is 18.15 p.m., the date is September 29th, 2011. We will begin the second additional session of the third working week of the second session of the Riigikogu, which will last until the agenda is exhausted. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. There are no drafts or referrals. Since there are no messages, we'll do a presence check. Currently there are 75 members of the Riigikogu, missing 26. We're going to the agenda. We begin by reading 95 third reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act and the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. We will open negotiations and ask for the floor of Priit Toobali on behalf of the Centre Party Group. Would you like to ask a procedural question? Good, I'll listen to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U266	Thank you, Mr President. At the last sitting, i.e. the first additional sitting, the President of the Riigikogu asked me to address the chair in writing. In a short break, I was then able to prepare a letter containing three questions. I will hand them over to you and, pursuant to § 74 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, I would expect them to respond immediately to them from the President of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U267	Let's see the questions. 'According to § 53 (3) of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, matters that have not been discussed in plenary last week must be put on the agenda first on the new working week. Today, at the meeting on 29 September, the 90 OE debate was closed. Should this not be discussed further as an item on the agenda for the new working week? How do you interpret § 53 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures? ' The Bureau discussed the agenda for additional meetings and what has been submitted to you is a consensual decision of the Bureau. All three members of the board, the second vice-president, Mr Jüri Ratas, the President of the Riigikogu, Mrs Ene Ergma, and the first vice-president, Laine Randjärv, were present. Question two. '29. At the first additional session of 1 September 2011, I wanted to ask a question about the procedure for conducting the sitting, but the President did not allow me to ask a question, so I could not answer my question. How do you justify not giving me the floor? How do you interpret Article 74 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure? ' I trust the President of the Riigikogu, who chaired the previous additional sitting. The third question: 'To which provision of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure do you consider that the President of the Riigikogu relied when he asked a member of the Riigikogu to address questions concerning the procedure for conducting the sitting in writing to the President of the sitting? ' I believe that the President of the Riigikogu can answer this question personally. He's in this room. You can talk to him for a moment. Thank you very much, Priit Tobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U268	We are opening negotiations on the State Budget Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Draft Act amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu 95. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U269	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the members of the Centre Party, the Reform Party and the IRL Group for their cooperation on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U270	Thank you. There's no more calls. We are going to the final vote. Before the final vote, a verification of presence shall be required. Please, we're doing a presence check! Seventy-four people have been registered to be present at the moment, no 27. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft act. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. I am voting on the draft Act amending the State Budget Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu 95. Please take a stand and vote. 60 members of the population voted in favour of the draft law, no one opposed, 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U271	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the continuation of the second reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on 'Ensureing compliance with the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments' presented by the Government of the Republic. We were in the middle of speeches, and I'm asking for Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U272	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, This morning, when I shaved, I took a look and thought, "Who's going to look back in that mirror, whether it's a rubber stamp that says "government coalition" on it, or it's a party rubber stamp. But actually, I saw the face of a man there, the face of a man with a diploma in economic engineering from Tallinn University of Technology, who has been running companies and thousands of people who have been sanitizing these companies for decades, and these companies are still living today. Now, if you'll excuse the self-expression. I made a decision right in front of the mirror. I hesitated and doubted how I would vote today, and we also had a discussion in the group. I have decided for myself that I am voting against this financial package. Why? What's going on? In fact, the same financial crisis or not the financial crisis, but the financial crisis of the countries, the financial crisis of the European countries, began even before the major economic crisis. It started, I could see that. I mean, politicians saw, they went around with their smiley faces and watched countries borrow themselves. The banks gave it a boost. After all, politicians went together, these politicians of the European Union, our Prime Minister, our presidents, other ministers, but no one spoke publicly about it running in the wrong direction. It was hoped that we could sort this out with taxpayers' money somehow. Actually, I couldn't. The big economic crisis came up. The result of this economic crisis is that some countries have reached the point in their fiscal policy that today, not only is the tax money spent today, but not the tax money for the next year or the following year, but basically the third, fourth, fifth year tax money is spent. Because if we look at their GDP and their loan, the country has virtually nothing to pay but its loan money, its money that has been collected from people in taxes. And in this situation, they're looking for a way out. So what did our ministers, our Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance do? We actually did a really good job. Ministers were good, but the good people were the most, because he heard that we were tightening our belts, keeping our budget in order, cutting, not putting children's food money on, let the farmers manage somehow, the unemployed come in, let some people go to work elsewhere with higher salaries. We did it all. In fact, the people carried it out that we have today... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U273	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U274	People understood that. We have indeed gained financial capacity, which is today number one among the European countries. What can't we do? We must not give away this financial capacity. After all, we are going to give away the financial capacity that our people, our government, the Riigikogu has created during this difficult time. We're just going to give this financial capacity away, we're going to give it to you, because these questions, when, by whom, how these things are settled, no one can answer. Yes, we could go along with this package in solidarity if we had the assurance that this package would help the European Union, help us all. But no one's sure, it's just a time buffer. We're gonna go in there and, like I said, we're gonna lose our financial capacity. Since we have not been able to solve the crisis with this package, which we certainly cannot, to date no one has proposed a package that could solve this crisis, we are going to go into a crisis in a situation where our credit capacity is low, our people's credit capacity is nonexistent, our wages are small, our people have borrowed themselves. What are we gonna live on? Our lives are going to be very difficult and complicated. That is why we must not give up our financial capacity, which I have achieved under the firm leadership of Minister Ligi. Ladies and gentlemen, what did the people give us a mandate for? The people gave us a mandate to spend the tax money that we are collecting rationally, wisely and understandablely, so that we could direct the spending of this money in a way that they could understand. We have not made this clear to the public. 80% of people do not know why we have to go along with this package. I don't know, 'cause we haven't been trying to figure it out. And then we're surprised why people don't want to pay us, why they say we're getting paid so much here. Because the rubber stamp isn't paid that kind of salary. They pay those who think, who can think, who can understand things, not act like we take it... By the way, I've got...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U275	Thank you, Lembit Kaljuvee! Your speaking time is over. Next, please speak to Kadri Samson! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U276	Ladies and gentlemen, This procedure, where the first reading of the draft will take place on Tuesday and the adoption of the draft on Thursday, is not common in this Chamber. In this way, decisions are only taken if there is a desire to formulate something in a bitter manner without the public yet being able to shape their position. Yeah, government representatives say there's been plenty of time. But is it? I say that it was the government's wish to knock off half-secret, almost past the Riigikogu in order to look better in Europe. This desire to look better ignores the internal economic situation in our country. The debt crisis in the euro area did not occur overnight. However, it is an insult to the Prime Minister's statement that people should read foreign newspapers, which state Estonia's obligations to the euro zone. Informing the Estonian people is still a matter for the Estonian Government. However, this government has hidden information and has denied Estonia's responsibilities as a result of the euro crisis. I'm talking about facts from the Ministry of Finance's website. The website of the Ministry of Finance contains information about the visits of the Minister of Finance since April 2010. We learn from it that the Minister of Finance participated in some meetings for almost more than a week about the euro zone, but what was decided there for Estonia is not a word of it. It should be recalled that aid was granted to Greece as early as May 2010, but reports from the Ministry of Finance indicate in a relatively one-style way for more than two weeks that the Minister of Finance and the Governors of the central banks will discuss public finances and financial sector issues and international financial issues at the meeting, ministers will be briefed on the innovations in the stability and convergence programmes presented by the Member States. The first information about Estonia's obligations is given at the end of November and more information was not provided last year. However, there is much information about how everyone praises Estonia and how well our people are informed about the changeover to the euro. The following information as a guarantor of Estonia's responsibilities is on the website of the Ministry of Finance on Midsummer Day of this year, although six months before that, the Minister of Finance attended a meeting almost every week where the topic was discussed. Those are the facts, unfortunately. This has also led me to see that information has not been shared with the people of Estonia or has been hidden. But we, too, are Estonian people in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, and today's next extraordinary session is the opportunity to vote in favour of the decision by which the Estonian state takes over its commitment for years. I put it to you to ask yourself before the vote if you would be willing to give this guarantee if it were your personal guarantee. Every guarantor must take into account that the loan may turn against the guarantor instead of the borrower, and this will put the budget of the Estonian state at risk in the future. There are still confusing circumstances in which a new country will become a customer of the EFSF. All that is certain is that our government has said to Members that under no circumstances is it recommended to prevent decision-making. Why should the desire to look as good as possible towards Europe be enough to take on the burden that is the strongest of all euro-zone countries in terms of GDP? This burden is not symbolic because, as we begin to bail out a country that is no longer trusted by markets, which are not trusted by credit rating agencies, who no longer have the point of bothering the IMF and who have a poor history of repayment of loans, we pledge our own development. The Estonian Government has tried to give the impression that bailing and guaranteeing would mean something purely theoretical, and real money will certainly not be put into play. This is misleading if the borrower fails to fulfil his obligations, Estonia will have two banking days to make a payment in its place. Yes, we have heard that Estonia would not fail with such a payment, because we have reserves and we can borrow if we have to pay off the loan from others, and then we will worry about who owed the loan. But these reserves have been gathered in the knowledge that in difficult times we can use them to alleviate our own lives. Today, however, we are accepting a situation where, for example, the unemployment fund is not allowed to take the necessary steps to ensure that the percentage of unemployment does not remain on a two-digit number for years. This is not allowed because reserves need to be maintained, but at the same time we are prepared to pledge these reserves, and this will only be decided as a result of the two-day debate in Parliament and in quite confusing circumstances. I also point out that when the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi defended the same bill here before the Riigikogu on Tuesday, he said: 'In the case of EFSF, it is about the capitalisation of banks through EFSF. And if we were really just talking about the old scheme, or guaranteeing loans, then everything would be very simple. Then it would be about knowing how much has been issued, and we could be much more precise about our spending. ' But he also said that a week ago, at the meeting of the Monetary Committee on Thursday, the specialists of the Ministry of Finance operated with an additional EUR 300 million guarantee. On Tuesday, standing in front of the Riigikogu in this remote area, Jürgen Ligi had the knowledge that it is now operating with 400 million euros, because 'EFSF is making its forecasts all the time and these instruments are expanding. 'Jürgen Ligi quote. It seems that the decision-makers of the government have been too late in Brussels and alienated from life in Estonia. How else can you go on such a double-faced road that while water is being squeezed out of the stone at home, you are prepared to reward irresponsible castration abroad. The Government's desire to act as a seemingly wealthy country in euro policy makes us give guarantees to the sovereigns that have borrowed money in order to keep lending still cheap for them, even if it is at the price of providing our own reserves as a guarantee and, at worst, the need to take a quick loan in order to fulfil the guarantor's obligation. Thus, there are many unanswered questions in the provision of guarantees. The decision-making process takes place quickly, however, with obligations on the Estonian state, which, as a taxpayer, will also burden today's children. This is not an obligation for a year and a half. If banks are given state guarantees to refinance these loans, they will last for tens of years and our guarantee will last for the same period. It is clear from the rush that government departments want to take decisions without discussing with the public and to try to keep the level of responsibilities as vague and as unfathomable as possible. But if you think a little bit about standing outside this room, then the people of Estonia are now feeling unfair about this decision. And when we think about being inside this room, the procedure, how this decision is made, does not seem right from the point of view of suppressing the practices of the parliamentary state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U277	Thank you. Next, please speak to Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U278	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have here today a decision to ensure compliance with the obligations arising from the EFSF Framework Agreement and its amendments. When adopting this decision, Estonia will make a commitment to guarantee debt liabilities of nearly EUR 2 billion under the EFSF Framework Agreement to support euro area Member States in financial difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, at least EUR 2 billion, this is not a small amount of money for Estonia. This amount is one third of the 2012 state budget. I would understand such a decision better if we had the money as real and free money. I have asked the good colleagues, the Minister of Finance and members of the Monetary Affairs Committee who have been on the board here, what will happen in Estonia if the guarantees come true, reserves or loans. We haven't received an answer. Of course, money must eventually be found at the expense of its people, at the expense of the taxpayer. In fact, no one has discussed where it comes from, and that is why there is no clear answer. The fact that we have teachers protesting on the streets, whose wages are extremely low compared to other European countries, that there is talk of policemen, the coming mass concentration of rescue workers, that more and more children are having school food as the only warm food a day, are not interested like any member of the government coalition today. There are very many social and regional problems in our country, which require much more investment than has been the case so far. Solving our own country's problems is underfunded, but nevertheless, we promise to guarantee basically EUR 2 billion. Undoubtedly, membership of the European Union has brought economic benefits to Estonia, and it is in our interest that the European Union as an economic union will continue to function successfully. At the same time, I question the efficiency that we have received as a member of the euro area. True, I cannot say for sure that this benefit will not come in the future, but we are now more in the midst of problems. At present, the persistence of the unity of the euro area and the survival of Europe in the economic crisis is a major challenge for Europe and for the world as a whole. Survivors have been carelessly treated with abilities and money. And it's not anyone else or third, it's the eurozone itself. The people of Estonia want to be put to rest by claims, as if it were practically impossible to realise the guarantee. That's not right. Any guarantee that the State undertakes can soon become a real commitment, real money. We are constantly receiving messages that strikes are taking place in Greece instead of successful reforms, often violent demonstrations. Cutting down the benefits that people have had for years is an extremely difficult task. How much can Greek citizens endure before they break down and take extreme measures? I doubt that there will be enough and enough patience, and I also doubt that anyone has the right to condemn the Greeks for such conduct. While European solidarity and mutual understanding sound good in theory, do each individual understand it? I doubt it. I have a concern for you too, ladies and gentlemen. If the members of the Centre Party can look the person in the eye after today and say that they did what they had to do, unfortunately many of you cannot do so, because you can freely give away a third of our country's budget at the expense of your people. We must not deal with such an important issue in a matter of urgency and secrecy. I received severe criticism from the Minister of Finance when I thought that this was actually an important issue for the whole population and that civil society should be consulted. But the Centre Party cannot support this decision, which imposes obligations on the Estonian state... One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U279	One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U280	...which is clearly beyond our control. We cannot go against the Estonian people, who do not consider it right to place such money. As long as Estonia has unresolved domestic problems, as long as our people leave abroad, children cannot feed normally at school, we do not have the right to do so with public money. That is why I cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U281	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Paul Keres has written in today's economic heading on the Postimees Internet and has specifically referred to two keywords. The first keyword is that we do not guarantee 2 billion kroons, but in fact the guarantee also includes interest, which may amount to 2.5 billion kroons. The second is that, under Article 125 of the Treaty of Lisbon, a Member State is neither responsible nor liable for the obligations of governments, authorities, other bodies governed by public law or public undertakings of other Member States. To solve this problem, an EFSF-named JOKK scheme will be created. I wouldn't even dare say whether this scheme is a JOKK or not, but we are following this principle of solidarity and running head-on to support those who actually live better than us. I agree that we give a hand to anyone who is in trouble, it is here in the Riigikogu Hall, or it is on the street. But when our own people are seriously worried and struggling, when our own people receive significantly less pensions or incomes per month and work hard for much less money, making this decision makes us think deeply and requires a very serious internal appeal. A lot of people say yes, our public finances are fine. But people's finances are not in order, in the sense that incomes are very low or absent at all. And if in other countries there may be a situation that public finances are not in order, people will still live much better, as I said. I can give a very clear example of Ireland. When we were talking here about helping Ireland and the fact that there is a serious financial crisis in Ireland, I took the phone and called my old friend, whom I have known for 20 years and who is the leader of a non-profit organisation. I asked him, Peter, what is going on in Ireland, that our poor Estonians must come to your aid, because you have a major financial crisis. He's beating his shoulders, and he says, "Hey, Kalle, it's hard for me to say that people move on the streets just like they do on the best days, people's incomes have not decreased, and I'm afraid I have to admit that the sponsors that I live with my company have grown. And then you start wondering if everything that's in the international media and what's really behind the figures in the form of the state budget is really true. Does this really show people's well-being? Or another example. Not very long ago, we went to Greece with Mrs Riigikogu's premiere and a good colleague, Mrs Maret Maripuu, where the so-called financial crisis was already in full swing. And the high leaders say in slave English that, listen, friends, the financial crisis is not in Greece, it is in the European Union, it is not our problem. And they were right, unfortunately they were right, because that is our problem, and today we have it on the table. I think Mrs. Maret might admit that she did. If you go to Ireland again, the unemployment benefit was EUR 196 per week in 2010. We know more or less how much we currently have a minimum wage in euro. Very much has been said about fishing, not fish. Today we want to give a whole fish load and a goldfish for some countries. Then why don't we give it to the outside, why don't we give it to the inside if we think it's right? I had a serious question in my mind today about why the German MEPs voted like this. One wise among us said that, of course, they couldn't vote differently, they had to... Can I have a minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U283	One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U284	... that they couldn't vote differently, that they had to go save German banks, because they actually have their money there. Luckily, we do not have that concern, and then let us think about how we will vote today. Solidarity must certainly be preserved, but in what form? Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U285	Thank you very much. We listen to what Igor Gräzin has to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U286	Madam President, I would like eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U287	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U288	Ladies and gentlemen, It has been repeatedly asked where the crisis is. I don't think it's in finance or the economy. This crisis is in the brain. As long as we do not stop talking about the euro as a success story or an incredibly clever project, nothing will change. If you put a horse in front of a car with a broken engine, it doesn't make a big difference. The EFSF has been spoken of here as beautifully as the Caucasian wine toasts, how it saves Greece, the euro and the European Union. How Harry Potter overcomes the evil Voldemort can be understood by any normal person, but how EFSF brings Europe out of the crisis is a fairy tale. The EFSF doesn't solve any problems, but it takes money. The EFSF has been compared to the IMF, forgetting that EFSF is doing exactly what the Bretton Woods system was designed to prevent. Today, the spiritual fathers of the IMF, Harry Dexter White and John Maynard Keynes, should both turn around in the grave because it is not a party-political issue. There has also been talk about European solidarity and the moral duty of Estonia, but 30 kilometres from Nord Stream is a presentation by my colleague, Mikser, on this subject, of refined political sadomaso. That, too. It was not appropriate to allow Lithuania to go to the euro, even though it had fulfilled all the conditions with some tiny mistake, but it is okay to push up mountains of money for Greece. By the way, as a romantic and a poet, I understand that there's always a charm in crooks. By the way, it is not actually quite fair to the Centre Party's draft criticism. Didn't they rub our noses in the level of social benefits in European countries, and didn't they mock Maret as a minister for not only saving the social sector in times of crisis, but also, to a large extent, the Republic's budget? By the way, ambassadors Oviir and Savisaar-Toomas are the whole soul and heart of the EFSF. In fact, it is about trust, whether we trust today's European Union's financial and other bosses so much that we are prepared to follow them blindly and unreasonablely, whether there are Winston Churchill, Charles de Gaulle, Adenauer-sized Europeans and visionaries who, if Moses, would take the people to the promised land. There is no grand plan behind the EFSF at the moment, but rather an improvisation of a hundred politicians, whose only clear goal is to do something on weekends to calm down the markets for a moment when the stock exchanges are opened on Monday. By erecting petty goals, seeming victories and embarrassing losses are achieved. The sole objective of the EFSF, the satisfaction of auditors, is not now a matter of sacrificing the economic future of Europe as a whole. In short, the people and institutions that have driven European finances into today are not the ones who, even with supernatural revelation, can make a difference. It would be like waiting for Duke Albal to reform the Inquisition. Since I have dealt with this unfortunate issue of EFSF in English for a year and a half every day, I know that the EFSF has now been injected into the heads of politicians and put on display, its opponents have been stamped off and, by the way, called stupid by Jürgen Ligi, who says to the others, it is! The big and fatal part of today's decision is that here our rapid decline along the slippery ditch edge, as has been the case before: association agreements, then Ilves-Tarand-Streimanni stakhanovic work and blindly into the European Union, then the euro, then the EFSF, then the ESM, then the Bonds and immediately on the harmonisation of the tax system, which was emphasised in the Bundestag. This is the end of Estonia's only competitive advantage! Here's my most important correction I've ever made. Our escape route is when we cut through this satanic EFSF chain that drags us into the ESM, which is directly against Estonia's interests, sovereignty and which the Estonian people have never agreed with anyone. The article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as my colleague Kalle Laanet said, says directly: 'The countries, including Estonia, are not responsible for each other's debts. 'This paragraph of the Framework Agreement must be brought out under our exception and the accession to the ESM must be done by the amendment of the Constitution. In any case, not with the ELAK Hops-meeting and in two hours. Tonight, of course, I'm afraid for the EFSF, but the teeth aren't gonna plagiarize yet. 'Cause Jürgen's gonna call whoever gets in his way, he's gonna be that guy, but Jürgen's a perfectly honest, careful and conservative money man. But what happens when we have another finance minister? What happens then? Or worse if he comes back from the last one, like he was before? So the Estonian economy descends from raven to night, in which only terrible howling and gnashing of teeth are heard. To be honest, Ivar Padar has just been given a revelation, and he is welcome to make a sensible and smart monetary policy camp out of a privileged social democracy. Ivari, welcome! However, the system must not be based on hope, which is always and only by responsible people. That's not what I said, that's what Thomas Jefferson said. Someday the dust of this struggle will come down, and then we'll sit down the other day and wonder how the hell we managed to get into this big mess. In order to avoid this, Tarmo Leinatamme and Juku-Kalle and I put forward a couple of measures that should work. First of all, using the right words to clear your brains. What kind of guarantees are you talking about? In the Law of Obligations Act, the name of the guarantee is debt, see § 2. Secondly, parliamentary control and the obligation not to give any guarantee where they are not needed. Third, prevent Estonia from sinking into the next swamp in the form of the ESM. So I thought and did as the great Immanuel Kant commanded. I watched the starry sky in my place and listened to a moral voice in my soul. I feel calm now, as is always the case with love, peace, quiet, and truth within you. And only from a distance will a gentle angelic song be heard, whispering: 'Look, dear Igor, how they will vote there for your repairs, and that is what you will do, and you, our dear friend, will be right again, as has always been the case in the European Union. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U289	Thank you very much. We have to listen to Juku-Kalle Rai. Please, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U290	Thanks! Especially good Igor, great speech! But I must begin with the words of Comrade Stalin, who in 1938 said in the Moscow Grand Theatre in his own constituency: comrades, I did not really want to come here to give a speech, but Comrade Nikita Khrushchev, may I say, dragged me here by force. Today's situation is what Nikita Khrushchev did to Stalin. Solidarity is a beautiful word, but it seems to me that there is no point in talking about it at this point. I don't really want to slow down here. I'll say it in about a few minutes. Good friends! As my good friend Hardo Pajula said, this is a bicycle effect. That if you stop cranking now, they're gonna roll over into a ditch, but if you keep waving, it's gonna end in an even bigger accident. We are talking about Greece today and probably a few other nice southern neighbouring countries in the future. I believe that Greece should have sent accountants, not money. Good friends! Estonia is a euro-zone country that lives below the euro-zone average, and at this point all my sense of how to deal with the aid package ends absolutely. If the Greeks' minimum wage is higher than our average, then it is gloomy, even very sour. On my question today to Aivar Sõerd, I called what is happening a crisis of socialism, not a crisis of capitalism. Citizens ambassadors, I see no reason for another socialist experiment. As a healthy right-wing person, I consider such a thing, a repetition of history, not a farce, as a well-known banner warns, but something far more dangerous. Estonia has the experience of the recent past on this subject. Let us not be fools and let us not imagine that we will be able to save countries where people do not count on their contributions, but demand them unscrupulously. In my opinion, it is right to let the groups that have lived beyond their means simply fail, rather than take over the power and the responsibility of any sense of justice. I see no reason why Estonia should maneuver itself to the same situation as Greece at the moment, for example. And to support the rich of the poor, I'm sorry, it's some very freaky form of socialism. Of course, I could not have imagined in a worse dream that I would end up in a boat with the middle party on this issue or on any issue at all, because as a political association, the Central Party is a trained disaster, but I do not see any chance of pressing a green button today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U291	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and we will examine the amendments. The first amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the commission has proposed not to take it into account. The second amendment is from Igor Gräzin; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. The third amendment is from Igor Gräzin, the lead committee proposes... Mr Gräzin, your proposals cannot be voted on because they received less than two votes in favour of the Commission. The fourth is the amendment tabled by Mr Gräzin, and the commission proposes not to take account of it, nor is it to be voted on. The fifth amendment is from Igor Gräzin, and the commission proposes to disregard it. As the lead committee has proposed to suspend the second reading, the second reading is interrupted. I shall set the deadline for tabling 90 amendments 30 minutes after the end of the second additional sitting and the time limit shall be 19.33. The second additional sitting is closed and the third additional sitting starts in an hour and a half, then at 20-33. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 19.04 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U292	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues, good evening! We will begin the third additional sitting of the Riigikogu on 29 September. This meeting shall continue until the agenda is exhausted. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. There's no call. Please ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, Heili Tõnisson, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U293	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic shall initiate a draft law amending the law on ambient air protection and other related laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U294	I have adopted a bill on behalf of the board. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 29 September Estonia submitted its views on the draft Council Directive on the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, and has appointed the Economic Commission and the Monetary Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the opinion is 13 October. 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 29 September, Estonia's views on the European Commission's communication on the fight against corruption in the European Union, the Committee on European Union Affairs, and has appointed the Constitutional Commission to give an opinion on the positions and communication of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 13 October. 4 p.m. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We're gonna do a presence check. 72 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 29. We have the quorum nicely, and we can start the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U295	We have one item on the agenda for today's third additional session, the continuation of the second reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on 'Ensureing compliance with the European Financial Stability Fund Framework Agreement and the obligations arising from its amendments' presented by the Government of the Republic. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the enforcement of the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement for the European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments at the session which began at 2 a.m. and at a cosy afternoon session, which ended a little while ago. Tanel Ross, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance and Tiit Rebane, participated in the day session, and lawyers and other experts from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu participated. The Commission, ladies and gentlemen, is presenting its proposal which amends the text of the entire draft. This proposal received 8 votes in favour, 1 against and no abstentions in committee. I will briefly present the content of this proposal. As you can see, in the proceedings before the Riigikogu, this bill, compared to the draft submitted by the government, changed quite significantly and in part. First of all, a reference to the State Budget Act came into the preamble of the draft. Its amendments were approved together today and provide the legal basis for the adoption of the guarantee decision. The main content of item 2 of the draft proposal is that the framework agreements to be concluded by the Foundation with new creditors will be discussed in the Riigikogu's plenary session. This is a substantive change compared to the original draft. The amendments to point 3 are also very important. They specify the competence of the Riigikogu's Committee on European Union Affairs. The financial assistance measures are known to be very diverse in today's world and are quite numerous foreseen in the fund's statute. The list includes transactions in bond markets, preventive support to the financial stability of a Member State, credit limits, security loans, as well as lending to a Member State to increase the capital of banks and other financial institutions. The use of these instruments does not require a comprehensive economic policy programme, but the implementation of these instruments in today's financial world is often rapid, especially when we talk about secondary market transactions, where both speed and confidentiality of decision-making are important, in order to achieve maximum results on financial markets with limited resources. Point 4 of the draft decision is also important. It lays down the principle that, if, for some reason, the Committee on European Union Affairs has not delivered an opinion within the requested deadline, the Government itself will do so by informing the Committee on European Union Affairs. It is also important to point 5, which says that if the terms of the framework agreement change in such a way that it affects the decision to grant a state guarantee, it is clearly within the competence of the Riigikogu's plenary. Finally, the entry into force of the draft has been clarified. This will take place not when signing, as was the original draft, but with the entry into force of the provisions amending the State Budget Act and the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu. I also stress the period of validity and start of the guarantee provided for in point 1 which is precisely set out. It wasn't in the government's bill. So the Riigikogu has made an important contribution to improving the draft. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who participated in this process and all the staff who helped in this work, as well as the Chancellor of Justice and his offices. But I will proceed with other amendments. The deadline was one amendment from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and four proposals from the members of the Riigikogu Juku-Kalle Raid, Igor Gräzin and Tarmo Leinatammelt, who submitted these four amendments together. The first proposal on your list is the Commission proposal, which I have already mentioned. The second proposal is presented by the Centre Party Group, in point 2 of which the competences of the Riigikogu's plenary session are introduced. On this point, the Commission had the view that we have taken this into account in essence in our proposal, as the new programmes of the Memorandum of Understanding will be discussed in plenary. So this proposal has already been taken into account in the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As regards the other details of this amendment, such as the entry into force of the decision at the time of signature, this is certainly not the correct reference and has already been corrected by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in its proposal. There is also no starting date and maturity date of the guarantee. We in the Commission asked whether the initiator of the proposal really wanted to support the proposal in this form, because there are significant shortcomings here. The Commission's consensual decision was that this proposal can be considered partially taken into account as the competence of the Riigikogu has already been taken into account in the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment No 3, tabled by Juku-Kalle Raid, Igor Gräzin and Tarmo Leinatamm, provided for the replacement of the word 'acceptance' in paragraph 2 of the draft. The Commission has already solved this problem in substance. The Commission's own draft does not include 'to be known' but rather 'to express an opinion'. For this reason alone, we could not take account of this proposal. The following amendment, in point 3, which is intended to replace the words 'Government of the Republic' with 'Council of the State', has also been taken into account in substance, but the Commission could not formally support it, since the wording of the Commission proposal has already changed and therefore two competing proposals cannot be supported in parallel. Proposals Nos 5 and 6 could not be taken into account by the Commission, since the question of legitimacy or the ESM issue is anyway subject to ratification by the Riigikogu. This is the issue of the future, and the Commission did not see fit to support these improvements in this form. These were the Commission's views. The Commission decided to close the second reading of the draft and to put it to a final vote. There were 8 Commission members in favour, 3 against, no abstentions. The Commission accepted the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, taking into account the content of the bill 90, the fact that it imposes a very large financial obligation on the state, which requires restructuring in the state budget, this draft decision should be adopted by a majority of 51 votes in the composition of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U297	Thank you, good waitress! You have questions. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U298	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I don't belong to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. When I learn that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has fundamentally changed the text of the draft text, I will look at the original version 90 OE and compare it to 90 OE II-2. Its explanatory statement is on one page, but the 90 OE explanatory statement was very thorough, it spelled out the very essence of the EFSF. Now, how does 90 OE II-2 relate to this 90 OE explanatory note, or do they have no connection left? That would make me very sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U299	Thank you for your question. As I said, the wording of the draft decision has changed substantially compared to the draft decision submitted by the government. This has also led to the fact that the amendments made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the explanatory memorandum, I think, have been quite well explained.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U300	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U301	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! The text of the draft has almost completely been amended. Tell me, please, whether there was a debate in the Commission and it was seriously understood that if this draft becomes a decision, then we will give away our accumulated financial capacity, not even give it away, but we will give it away. Did you understand that we are giving away our accumulated financial capacity, the collection of which has been linked to our entire people over the years? Do you realize we're giving away our financial abilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U302	Thank you for your question. I really urge not to ask my opinion now. I've done it many times today. My task is to present the Commission's debate. Our evening debate was very specific and clear. The result of the Commission's work is formulated in the text of this draft. We have worked quite thoroughly in recent days and these decisions or proposals have been made with a sufficiently large consensus. But as far as your judgment is concerned, I think you're still mistaken. If you want to hear my personal opinion, I will say that this assessment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U303	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U304	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to thank you for expressing the straight and clear views you had in the Commission. But did I get it right that, although it is noted in the table of amendments that the amendments tabled by my good colleagues, Mrs Raidi, Mrs Leinatamme and Mr Gräzini, were not taken into account by the Commission, you have, in essence, taken them into account in the formulation of your amendment, which the Committee on Monetary Affairs has made in this table?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U305	Right. You're on the right track. That was indeed the case in essence, but formally we could not take them into account, because otherwise competitive proposals would have arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U306	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U307	Thank you, good manager. I am, however, forced to rephrase my question in a certain sense. Option 90 OE, which was the original version of the draft, is the very beautifully and long-written nature of the EFSF, i.e. the content with which this decision is incorporated by the Republic of Estonia. The explanatory memorandum to option 90 OE II-2 is a few rows on one page where there is no mention of this fund receiving our guarantee. I repeat my question: how can the explanatory statement of the last, completely new draft be substantive if there is no mention of where this bill takes us, perhaps the explanatory statement is empty?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U308	Thank you for your question. I think that the Riigikogu has quite a few materials at its disposal that speak about the principles and objectives of the operation of the European Stability Fund. I suggest you read them. I think it is worthwhile reading these materials well when it happened that reading something was superficial. There are materials. I really don't see a substantive problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U309	A procedural question, Taavi Clothe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U310	Thank you, Mr President. Am I right to understand that Aivar Riisalu, a good fellow official, was confused that he took the explanatory memorandum to the amendment, which explains this amendment, and began to think that this is now the explanatory memorandum to the draft? Am I correct to understand that, in fact, this explanatory memorandum submitted by the initiator will continue to be attached to the draft, and that the reasons for and the content of the amendment has now been further explained separately? A good co-worker has just gotten lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U311	Thank you. I think you understand correctly when you take the bill from the back of the hall that we are currently discussing on the shelf. It should contain both the text of the draft text and the explanatory memorandum. Aivar Riisalu, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U312	Since my name was mentioned, I'll explain. Indeed, from the billboard we will be able to take this bill, which I am asking you about. Here's the bill plus all the amendments, but from this bill, the adorable explanatory statement that tells us things has physically disappeared. That's why I'm asking whether or not the essence of the EFSF interacts with the final version of this decision. I hope it interacts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U313	Yeah, it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U314	Aivar Sõerd, a good co-worker! I used this button here for the first time and took your microphone away. We have agreed in the Riigikogu that one person will chair the sitting of the Riigikogu. I beg you, stick to it! I'm sorry, I haven't really done this before. Please, Igor Gräzin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U315	I completely agree with you that this requires a very thorough reading. I have to say that 28 minutes for a thorough reading is too short a time for me, so I can ask a stupid question. I want to summarise Amendments 4, 5 and 6. Did I get it right that the only obstacle or brake for the transition to the EFSF to the ESM is the usual day-to-day ratification procedure? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U316	Thank you. First of all, as far as I am aware, the Member States have not yet established the ESM, as has not been established or agreed or negotiated as well as the transfer of rights, assets or whatever. We're talking about something that we may not know all the details of. I think that the author of the proposal understands the Commission's positions that we were on when we discussed these amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U317	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U318	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! While it was discussed here earlier, what might be the reason for calling an additional session of the Riigikogu plenary this evening, the President of the Riigikogu said that the main reason is that the German Bundestag today took the decision to give guarantees to the EFSF. I ask whether Estonia should be so happy about this. Estonia pays EFSF guarantees without interest of 12.99% of GDP, while Germany pays 8.2% of GDP. These guarantees are unfair given the average salaries of the countries. In Germany, each resident is responsible for 0.8 of the average monthly salary, while in Estonia, 1.63 of the average monthly wage. Should we really be happy and have an additional hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U319	The President of the Riigikogu did not mention Germany alone; he also mentioned that maybe we would still focus on the work we have on the table now and leave these discussions. I can talk to you about this for a very long time in the costaars, I'm sure it would be an interesting conversation. But I am here, try to understand and understand, as a representative of the Commission, and I will explain the debate that took place in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U320	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U321	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, Mr Gräzin mentioned that 28 minutes have completely changed the time needed to examine the text of the draft decision. My question is to you as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Would you enlighten us when you first saw this 100 percent changed text finalized, how many minutes or hours ago did this text come to you like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U322	Thank you. The representatives of your group were also present in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and no one protested, complained or objected to the time allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U323	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U324	Thank you, Mr President. A good rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs! When we discussed the first version of this draft here, you explained to me that Portugal and Ireland do not fall under our guarantees, our guarantee, because they have been the subject of decisions before. Mr Kõivas explained that it is not quite the case that, in the case of Portugal at least, we are also partially bailing out, because the instalments have not yet been paid. As the Commission's rapporteur, would you explain what the real situation is?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U325	Thank you. Yeah, I can explain. It is important to understand the importance of the date of entry into force of the Decision. All the payments made by the Fund after we have given our guarantee mean guarantees, which we will also guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U326	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U327	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! You were wrong in one answer. You noted that members of the Central Party Group were also present in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It's true. But it is as if we have been in favour of continuing to read the second draft at the third additional session today, i.e. as if we had not had the time key to the problem, certainly is not true. Three members of the Centre Party in the Commission voted against this proposal. But my question is the following. You mentioned that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is of the opinion that the adoption of this draft decision requires at least 51 votes from members of the Riigikogu and said that this decision requires restructuring in the state budget. In the past, when you answer questions, you have not clearly stated what restructuring is required by the adoption of this decision in the state budget, and it was also not discussed in the last two meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I ask you to explain what reorganisations this decision will require in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U328	Thank you. I answered the same question this morning, as far as I can answer with today's knowledge. We did not address this issue in the Commission. You could have asked that in the committee when lawyers from the Ministry of Finance were present this morning. You could have asked, but you didn't. Unfortunately, we did not discuss this issue, although this option would have been possible. But if you are concerned in detail with the recognition of claims, liabilities, shares and assets on the state balance sheet and the recognition of cost-benefits in the state budget, I am happy to have a longer discussion with you on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U329	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U330	Thank you. Dear Aivar Sõerd! You didn't answer my last question. But when I try to read between the lines, I understand that you, too, saw this text for the first time in the last meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which was an hour and a half ago. Is this the correct conclusion, or have you read this text before?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U331	Good colleague! This text was prepared as a result of the joint work of many people, and I have been involved in this process all along. In this morning's session, I also, of my goodwill, presented to you the principles that come into this text, although I did not yet have a final, legally correct text ahead of me in the morning. The last clarifications, which did not change the content, came here today, but it is important that these final provisions have been thoroughly examined with a large number of parties. As I said, there are important substantive changes in this regard compared to the draft proposed by the government. I do not think I am exaggerating when I say that some of the problems and inaccuracies in the original draft have been corrected as a result of the work of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U332	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U333	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! I hope that you will explain some important issues to those members of the Riigikogu who are not members of the Monetary Committee. Unfortunately or fortunately, we do not all have the honor. So I'm asking for an explanation. In the case of Ireland and Portugal, at least for me, there is now a little more clarity in the house. What, though, if the speculations that the media has had quite a lot in recent days become true, that the EFSF funds are clearly inadequate? In this case, do we need to increase our guarantees, and to what extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U334	Thank you. I understand very well where you are going with your question and what you want to know. You have already been answered, or at least your colleagues have answered, the same question. You don't have the right answer. I am responding to you now in such a way that we did not address this issue in the Commission's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U335	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U336	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! You said that there was a question of solidarity in the Commission. Did you also mention in this context that Estonian farmers receive three times less subsidies than European farmers? Did you talk about us paying the highest percentage compared to our GDP? Was that a story or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U337	Thank you. This is undoubtedly a very important and important issue. However, the Commission focused on its work and on the issues that the Commission has been dealing with in recent days, this important issue did not fit in.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U338	Good fellows! The noise's getting really big in the hall. I ask from the heart to be quieter and to honor my fellows and waitress! Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U339	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, I have been to all the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have asked for and received answers. But I haven't been able to answer a lot of questions. Indeed, we did not address at all those issues concerning the framework agreement as a whole. It turned out that we do not approve the framework agreement in the Riigikogu, and it will live its own independent life after the guarantees have been given today. My question is as follows. We tried to divide these grants between the full hall of the Riigikogu and ELAK. After all, the actual grant of aid in the form of a programme is much lower than the so-called security loans, which will be decided by ELAK. On the basis of which is it made a distinction as to when the application will come to the plenary room of the Riigikogu and when will it go to the European Union Affairs Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U340	Thank you. I suggest you read the decision points. The division of competences between the Riigikogu plenary and the European Union Affairs Committee should be written here in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U341	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U342	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You repeatedly mentioned in your speech that you have done a tremendous amount of work in the last week, in the last days and in the last few hours. Does this insane work also result in a high-quality draft decision? So where are we in such a terrible hurry to commit to a country with a third of the state budget, when Slovakia, I hear, will only discuss it in a few weeks' time? Why are we in such a hurry? What's the rush?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U343	Thank you. You are now asking what you have already spoken about here in your speeches. Then why do you ask anymore? We discussed it this morning and we still want to finish our work. People have gone to a lot of trouble. I think that the result that exists here in the form of a draft is an important step forward in relation to the draft proposed by the government. This is our important contribution to cooperation with other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U344	Good colleagues from the right, left and middle parts of the hall! I want to acknowledge all of us. I think today has been a very good day at work, but in the third additional session, the noise is always getting bigger and bigger. I understand the subject is interesting, but this noise is disturbing the audience and the waitress. My only chance is to ask you. I ask you to keep your voice down in the hall once more, the noise is too big! Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U345	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns point 4 of the draft decision, which says that the Government of the Republic of Estonia will present its position on the draft memorandum of understanding which requires an immediate position of the Republic of Estonia, for which the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs has not delivered an opinion within the reasonable time limit requested by the Government of the Republic, and will inform the Committee on European Union Affairs. In this section No 4, there are two time definitions: within an immediate and reasonable time limit. It's almost impossible to put them both around in days or hours. I don't trust the coalition and the government of the Republic. Aren't you afraid that the Government of the Republic and the Coalition may take advantage of this point 4 and, on all matters, that an immediate position is needed and that the Commission will not be able to meet within a reasonable period of time, the decision will be taken itself and later simply informs the EUAK? Don't you have the same fear as me?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U346	Thank you. I don't have the fear you have.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U347	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U348	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I sincerely believe that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has worked hard to improve this draft decision. Whether it pleases all members of the Riigikogu is seen in the vote. But I ask the same question as my colleague, Kadri Simson: when did you get this text? I think it's a relatively simple question. When and during what period did anyone have the right and opportunity to read these texts?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U349	Thank you. You are such a long experience of the work of the Riigikogu and the legislative process that you will probably know how the drafts will be prepared: different versions of the texts will be dealt with and the final text will be dealt with, where political consensus has been reached and where all legal problems have been resolved, the work of the Riigikogu committee is the product and purpose of the work of the Riigikogu committee. The last amendments to the wording that did not change the point may have come today, but the principles that I said in this Chamber this morning are exactly the same here. When I was in front of you in this Chamber this morning, neither did I have the final text, but the principles were known and we had a clear goal where we wanted to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U350	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U351	Thank you. Honourable Mr. Sõerd! Do you realise that you are currently leading a 'historical process' that can turn against the entire Estonian people in the future, and that, moreover, our people have not authorized this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U352	Thank you. I listened very carefully to your speeches. Of course, the fact that you want to repeat your thoughts here is to be welcomed. I certainly do not agree with many of the things that were spoken about in your speeches, but this is a longer topic and comes out of my current role.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U353	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U354	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Now it turns out that the text has changed almost a hundred percent, and I don't think you understand exactly what it says about me who I am not a finance man. Perhaps it would really be wiser to interrupt the debate so that people who do not belong directly to the inner circle could also bring themselves up to speed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U355	Thank you. I don't think that would make sense or make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U356	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U357	Thank you. Mr. Sõerd! You said that you listened attentively to our speeches. Maybe you'll share your impressions of what you think was the best speech?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U358	Thank you. I'd be happy to share these impressions in costaares for hours, if you like. But I really call, and I suggest that we do our job on our desks right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U359	I, too, ask that we stick to the draft decision that we are discussing at the moment. No further questions. I thank the waitress very much for her presentation and answers. Is there a desire to negotiate? It's what you want. I'm opening negotiations. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U360	Ladies and gentlemen, During a somewhat long working day for the Riigikogu, I have tried to remember when there have been cases where very important issues have been dealt with in a very short time. One such case has indeed been during my membership of the Riigikogu. This was in February 2009, when 14 laws were amended with just one vote. This was the first cut-off budget when money was taken away from rural municipalities, youth sports, kindergartens and several other important areas of life when passing past the normal procedure of the Riigikogu. It is starting to feel that the tougher decisions are made for the Estonian people, the shorter the attempts are made to process them in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The debate within two days clearly bears the seal of haste. We also heard that this text, which is coming to the final vote today, was in its final form only an hour and a half ago. This is not enough time to analyse the future impact of this text. Such decisions will only be taken if there is a desire to formulate something in a bitter manner without the public being able to shape their position. Why am I talking about this decision being made in haste, although the representatives of the government say that there has been time to discuss, and there is nothing new in the euro crisis? Yeah, but it hasn't been talked about or the public informed about it. Using the opportunity that there are now half as many people in the Chamber as there are today at the first additional session, I would remind you that the statement by the Prime Minister, as if the people of Estonia could have brought themselves up to speed on this subject by reading foreign newspapers, is offensive, because the obligation to inform the people of Estonia that they are aware of the obligations that we have arising from being in the euro zone is particularly offensive to the government of the Republic of Estonia. This has not been done either by the Prime Minister or by the Ministry of Finance. The website of the Ministry of Finance provides short news that during the last year and a half, the Minister has attended various meetings, where information has been received about the possible obligations to Estonia arising from the euro crisis, but the facts have not been reported. The website of the Ministry of Finance contains information about the moves of the Minister of Finance since April 2010, but for the first time the information about Estonia's obligations became public only at the end of November. There was no further information on that last year. However, there is much information about how everyone praises Estonia and how well our people are informed about the problems associated with the changeover to the euro. The following information about Estonia's obligations as a guarantor is available on the website of the Ministry of Finance from this year's Midsummer, although six months before that, the Minister of Finance visited meetings for more than a week where similar commitments were discussed. Six months before that, Estonia was about to join the euro, where much of the possible guarantees that could occupy our budget were not discussed. This has also led me to see that information has not been shared with the people of Estonia or that this problem has been concealed. One important thing about the work of the Riigikogu is that our decisions must be correct and appear fair to the citizens of our country. We are now in a situation where a decision is made in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, which does not seem fair to most of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. You, too, if you should put your hand on your heart and tell me if you would place your money in such overbearing responsibilities, you would probably not be able to answer yes. Each guarantor must take into account that the loan may be turned against the guarantor instead of the borrower. By giving the Estonian state the yes word too lightly, we are putting the country in a position where responsibilities can hit us and our country so painfully that we cannot bear it. The Estonian Government has tried to give the impression that this bail-out means nothing, it is a symbolic act, and the talk about the application of the guarantee against us is completely theoretical, the real money will certainly not be put into play. It's misleading. If the borrower fails to fulfil his obligations, Estonia will have two banking days to make taxes instead of him. We have heard that the Estonian state would not fail to fulfil this obligation, because we are small, but very good, we have accumulated reserves, we are able to borrow at very short notice. In some ways, reserves give us certainty, but on the other hand, these reserves were collected for the reason that if the state of Estonia has had a difficult time and we have had a difficult time for several years, these reserves are the reserve with which we support our people and their livelihood. On the contrary, our government has behaved internally in such a way that cuts are always justified, but economic recovery is by no means justified. The best example of this is that the unemployment fund, which also collects in difficult times, at times when unemployment is represented by a two-digit number of reserves. Now we understand that these reserves provide a generous opportunity to share guarantees. We also have questions about the situation where the amount of guarantees varies within a few days by 100 million euros and, unfortunately, towards growth. Clear answers to the extent of Estonia's obligation have not been heard in this Chamber. In such a situation, where the decision is pushed through at a rapid pace, avoiding discussion and wishing to assume obligations for the Estonian state which are not transparent, which are vague and incomprehensible, this decision cannot, of course, be given a vote of support. This decision is not fair to the people of Estonia, nor can the suppression of parliamentary state practices be called right in any way. Thank you for your attention. I urge you, in making your decision, to consider that political responsibility does not last for just 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U361	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U362	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take this opportunity to say a few words. First of all, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for his proactive intervention. This is not a normal situation when the Chancellor of Justice switches to a draft decision during the procedure itself. As a general rule, it takes a position after a specific decision or act has been adopted. However, thanks to the fact that he was involved in this process, we were able to quite substantially amend a specific draft decision and later a single draft law. I would like to thank the Socialists, who have given very constructive and comprehensive assistance in handling the draft and have contributed in every way to making these decisions more legal. I would also like to thank the good partner of the Reform Party, with whom we reached, with joint efforts, the draft decision that we have on our tables today and which, according to our good faith, complies with all the laws and clearly expresses the will of the majority of the Riigikogu. As chairman of the committee, I would like to thank all these hardworking lawyers and experts from both the Committee on Finance and the Legal and Analytical Department, as well as the Office of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of Finance who initiated the draft for the hours they spent in order to make this draft more legal. I am still talking about the EFSF to understand what we are dealing with today, to try to take away the fears and to say once again some of the words that I said last time I came here as a representative of the group. The EFSF is one of the aid mechanisms designed to ensure financial stability in the euro area, on which the strength, development and security of both the European Union and Estonia depend. This is very costly when a particular country or several countries become insolvent. This is not only costly for this country, but also costly for those countries that are in a trade and services zone with this troubled country. My group and I believe that the possible support from the EFSF can only take place strictly conditionally, i.e. with the guarantee of the implementation of specific economic programmes and of this economic programme, with the guarantee of reforms. Shortly before the disbursement of each loan, creditors should review whether the payment of the financial contribution complies with the conditions of the programme that the particular country of concern has promised to comply with. From the draft itself, it is very important to me that important decisions of the EFSF are taken by the Riigikogu. I think that this is a very important change that has taken place in the process of dealing with the draft. In the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, we agreed, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, that the aid packages of all countries requesting assistance would come to the Riigikogu. Here they must, in principle, be approved if we want this country to receive support. All other amending decisions shall be taken by the Commission for European Union Affairs. This is the kind of change we made in this second draft. I believe that the debates that have taken place in recent days have made it clear that the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp. Finally. Today, the same decision was adopted in the Bundestag by 523 votes in favour, 85 Members were against and only 3 abstentions. Germany became the 11th euro area country of 17, which has agreed to strengthen the EFSF of EUR 440 billion. I'll have another minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U363	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U364	I would like to say that Germany is actually the biggest partner in EFSF with 27%. Germany's contribution to the EFSF amounts to EUR 211 billion. In a few moments' time, we in the Riigikogu will show our attitude towards the common euro area, with all its joys and concerns, and we will presumably become the 12th of the 17 eurozone countries that approve the EFSF. IRL supports the adoption of this draft as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U365	Thank you. Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U366	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, A few hours ago, a good fellow Juku-Kalle Raid spoke very clearly and vividly about how the wrong people for him would get the wrong people to do the right thing. There has also been quite a lot of discussion here today about how deciding on this issue by pressing the green button is clearly reluctant to one or the other member of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union or Reform Party. After all, the recitals have been quite similar to what we, the members of the Centre Party Group, have said on this board. Moreover, if you go out of this room and look outside the hall, it turns out that those members who do not want to vote in favour today by pressing the green button, giving this historic decision and making Estonia bail out a very large amount of money, are even more than those who have spoken on the remote today. After all, the most painful part of this decision is the cuts in recent years. I must remind you once again that if we compare the salaries of ourselves and the teachers in the countries that we are in a hurry to help today, who are unable to make such cuts in their own country, not to mention the increase in payouts, which, unfortunately, in the case of Greece, for example, is still the truth, in some cases the salaries of these teachers are even several times higher than those of our teachers. Or if we look at average wages, unemployment benefits, income support, child benefits or also pensions, compared to those countries that we are going to support and assist today, so that they can keep their spending at least to some extent at the level they are used to, this all really seems unfair. Farmers have also been mentioned here today. We can only dream of the European subsidies that many so-called old countries still receive. The question of whether we have an alternative has also been up today. If we look at the explanations that we have heard here today (the rapporteur spoke of good will), in fact, the Estonian person has not been sufficiently explained so far, what happens when a guarantee of EUR 2 billion, with loan service costs of as much as EUR 2 and a half billion, is enforced. In principle, it has been explained that when we joined the euro area, we agreed to a number of agreements. We have followed the Maastricht criteria, indeed we have. However, if we look at these countries, Greece or Portugal or Ireland, it is quite clear that these guarantee volumes are probably not enough. The third substantive issue, which has already been mentioned here today and which still raises questions, is the question of the future ESM. In case of good luck, if we do not have to pay out the EFSF in full, in the case of ESM, we are already talking about real money. In the case of ESM, at least so far known, although the waitress said that the information is still being explained, Estonia needs to make five payments of 30 million euros in real money. Although the Estonian person is proud of his euro, despite inflation and other such phenomena, he still believes that we have taken a step forward with the euro, but if we convert this EUR 30 million into Estonian kroons, quite a number of people are surprised to realise that at the same time the rescue workers received the little that was asked for, barely paid out, or some rather painful cuts have not yet been restored. Perhaps it is worth mentioning that the restoration of the local authorities' revenue base alone is just a speck of it. The question arises as to where such money will be found. The 2012 state budget procedure is still ahead of us and these discussions are likely to arise repeatedly during the procedure. In the case of the recovery of the second pension pillar payments and the shortfall in obligations arising from the sale of allowances, we can talk about 2.1% of GDP. Thus, in the state budget prepared by the Government of the Republic, expenditure is already exceeding revenue. Although the economic crisis is over and the economy has started to rise, the Estonian state is not able to cope with the commitments made, but it has not really sounded like there were problems in finding money to fill the guarantee in full. Last but not least, Greece's ability to meet loan conditions has grown. Greece had already had problems with loan conditions in the summer...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U367	Good waitress! I'm sorry, but you're really interrupting our colleagues' conversations, so I'm gonna ask you to stop your report for a moment! I thank my fellow officers and you! Please give the waitress half a minute more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U368	Greece had problems meeting the loan conditions already in the summer, so the planned aid loan payment was postponed in order to put a little pressure on Greece. After that, Greece has indeed taken a great deal of action (or it would be better to say that it has done something about it) and, on certain conditions, Europe has simply turned a blind eye. There have been speculations on several occasions, as if the Greek State stopped paying pensions and salaries in mid-October. For example, if you look at the data from the German newspaper Bild, the German Government has taken into account the possibility that Greece will be going bankrupt by Christmas. If Greece joins the beneficiaries of the EFSF, the amount of the loan granted to it may amount to EUR 90 billion. However, given the fact that Greece is already struggling to meet the current credit conditions, can we even talk here about a repayable loan? So many questions have arisen around the EFSF, which is why the Centre Party really does not agree to commit to the next generations only as a result of this few hours of debate. Unfortunately, as a result of cuts in recent years and constant price increases, the purchasing power of the Estonian people has decreased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U369	Thank you. Lembit Kaljuvee, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U370	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I came here for a remote control to sort something out. Delfi wrote that Kaljuvee made that decision today. I'm sorry, but I didn't mean or state here that I decided today. I decided that I am against this unfair decision on the part of the Estonian people when I first read this paper. This morning's shaving wasn't important. It was important that I looked in the mirror. One more thing happened this morning that I was driving an elevator with the esteemed Igor Gräzin. Igor said that the American economy is also in a difficult situation, and since the Americans have helped us, we will adopt this package today and then we will discuss the American financial assistance package. He was joking, of course. But it's really no joke. The global economy is still very difficult for a long time and we must not give away our financial capacity. We can't give away our financial abilities, understand? I'm quitting because a friend of mine wants to go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U371	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U372	Good manager! Good fellows! Today is indeed a very emotional day. It is, I think, much more emotional than all these debates and long night sessions, which my experience here in the Riigikogu has allowed to see or, in fact, to say, survive in a few years. You see, a lot of the people sitting in this hall I know very well personally, so I can say that there are no world-view chasms between us. Even with Juku-Kalle Raid, you can talk to a perfectly normal man, and he gets a few things sometimes, so I'm part of the Centre Party. I now have the feeling, in the face of decisive moments, that we are like the Supreme Council of the Estonian SSR, which in 1991 had to make a pretty important decision to be or not to be. I admit to you that, by looking at this European monetary system, the euro zone in this form, it must indeed be said that the European Union will not be able to continue in this form if it wants to have a single currency. This means that the move towards the United States of Europe must be accelerated. With today's decision, we are heading towards a European acceptance for the United States, because today we are following the order that Europe has given us. The last Mohicans here are still trying to fight it with bloody tomahawks, but the Supreme Council is probably already making its decision. Look, I feel like I'm being taken back to the CIS, where everyone's allowed, but the little ones have to be quiet. As a person who understands the economy a little bit, I understand very clearly that we have come to a situation where we no longer have good choices. I ask, above all, myself, but also those people who have a greater responsibility, or people who push the green button, whether we really thought and wanted to be faced with such difficult choices in the 21st century because of someone else's failure, perhaps due to miscalculations, and to go cross to the perceptions of our people. We have no reason to believe that our people are foolish, that we have reason to love our people, and that we have reason to believe that our decision today in a way or another can put our people in a situation that they no longer understand. In any case, force for everyone, regardless of color! I admit that my choice of colour, which will become public after a while, maybe it is not my heart choice as an economic man, but it is my choice of principle, because at the moment, much bigger things are in danger that we cannot yet feel very well today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U373	Thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 90 amendments to the draft. The first amendment has been tabled by the lead committee, the view being that full account must be taken of. A second amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the position of the commission is that part of the consideration should be given. The third amendment has been tabled by Mr Raid, Mr Gräzin and Mr Leinatamm, the view of the commission is that it should be disregarded. The fourth amendment has been tabled by Mr Raid, Mr Gräzin and Mr Leinatamm, the view of the commission is that it should be disregarded. The fifth amendment has been tabled by Mr Raid, Mr Gräzin and Mr Leinatamm, the view of the commission is that it should be disregarded. The sixth amendment has been tabled by Mr Raid, Mr Gräzin and Mr Leinatamm, the view of the commission is that it should be disregarded. Good fellows! We have examined the amendments. We have come to the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows! Before we go to the final vote, Kadri Samson has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U374	Thank you. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before the final vote. I think everyone needs time to decide how to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U375	Thank you. I'm declaring recess. The sitting will be resumed at 21.57 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-29_U376	Good fellows! The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. It's 9:57 p.m. Let's continue the hearing. We have come to the preparation of the final vote. Since the draft decision 90 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will do a verification of presence before the final vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 25. I will put a bill of 90 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu, 18 against, no abstentions. Draft 90 of the Riigikogu decision "Ensure compliance with the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments' submitted by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a decision. Good fellows! The item is closed and today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 21.59 p.m.
