ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Several members of the Centre Party Group have a question to Mr Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. It concerns the attention of Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, to the situation of health care providers when they are found to be intoxicated. The Chancellor of Justice points out that § 726 (1) and (6) and § 727 (5) and (9) of the Police and Border Guard Act are incompatible with the Constitution. The letter of formal notice of the Chancellor of Justice was based on the fact that he had been approached by health care providers, who see a number of problems in the implementation of the procedures for the detection of drunkenness laid down in the Police and Border Guard Act. Consequently, we have questions for the honourable Minister of the Interior. The first question is whether the Minister of the Interior sees the situation described above as a problem. Question two. According to the Chancellor of Justice, at the request of the police, the conduct of an act constitutes an intensive violation of the fundamental rights of the person subject to the sampling, while the drunk condition is a constituent feature of the offence when there is a suspicion that the offence has been committed in a state of drink, and it is therefore necessary to establish that it is intoxicated. What are the proposals of the Minister for the Interior to resolve the situation so that the necessary documents can be collected without prejudice to medical ethics and fundamental human rights? Question 3: How does the Minister of the Interior assess the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to create a permanent post in the Police and Border Guard Board for staff with the relevant competences? Question 4: What concrete steps do you intend to take to implement the Chancellor of Justice's proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U3	I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Vladimir Velmani!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hand over an inquiry signed by 14 members of the Estonian Centre Party to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. This is similar to the previous speaker's inquiry into the situation of health care providers when they are found to be intoxicated. The letter from the Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, sent to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, emphasised that § 726 (1) and (6) of the Police and Border Guard Act and § 727 (5) and (9) of the same Act are not in accordance with the principle of proportionality arising from the Constitution in view of the right of the health care provider to free self-realisation. During the procedure, the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Hospitals' Association, the Ministry of Justice, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board were asked for a position. On the basis of the results of the analysis, the Chancellor of Justice proposed to bring these provisions of the Police and Border Guard Act into line with the Constitution and to analyse the issue of the adequacy of the protection of the rights of minors, the regulation of the detection of drugs in cooperation with specialised experts, and to clarify the safety of forced urine sampling in terms of the protection of the fundamental rights and health of the individual. On this basis, we have four questions for the Minister for Social Affairs and we look forward to his answers. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U5	I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the Social Democratic Party Group gives proceedings for the amendment of the Citizenship Act, which does not change the fundamentals of Estonian citizenship policy, but still makes an important step towards Europeanism. According to the draft we are presenting, the Citizenship Act would be amended so that a minor under 15 years of age, whose citizenship is undefined and who was born in Estonia after 26 February 1992, will receive Estonian citizenship by naturalisation if his or her parents, who are not considered by any state to be their own citizens under the laws in force, have not notified in writing that he or she does not wish citizenship for her child during the six months following the birth of the child. Estonian citizenship would also be granted to a minor under the age of 15, whose parents have received Estonian citizenship after the birth of the child. Speaking in the Riigikogu on 1 October 2009, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder said: 'Children under 15 years of age with stateless parents holding a valid residence permit could be granted Estonian citizenship by naturalisation if the parents do not object. To be clear, this acquisition of citizenship is naturalisation, not birth. Such a move would be positive both for launching the debate and for real action to show that Estonia takes all its countrymen seriously. ' We hope that this bill will be dealt with quickly and constructively without excessive political emotions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U7	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and my colleague, Eiki Nestor, I hand over a draft law supplementing § 108 of the Civil Service Act on the payment of social security contributions in a situation where the service relationship has been suspended due to a labour dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U9	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U10	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party of the Riigikogu, I am pleased to pass on the law on the control of the home expenses of homeowners, which is officially called the Act amending § 15 of the VAT Act, because unlike the representatives of coalition parties, we have the rules to comply with. The draft law reduces the VAT on thermal energy. The aim of the draft is to reduce the high heating costs of homeowners by reducing room temperature VAT to 9%. The significant increase in heating prices since 2007 has led to an increase in housing costs in the wallet of Estonian households. For example, the heating costs of a three - room apartment have increased 64% in the last four years. You don't have to look for reasons from far away. In 2009, the Riigikogu, under the leadership of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association and Reform Party, raised VAT in Estonia to 20% at very short notice, i.e. four times. The rate of excise duty on natural gas was also increased...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U11	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows! There is a very loud noise in the hall and you cannot hear what the person in the Riigikogu is saying. I ask that we honor our fellow officers and waitress! Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U12	... 367 kroons per 1000 cubic metres. In the economic crisis, many homeowners faced serious difficulties, and due to public utility debts, some have had to give up their apartments. We cannot consider it normal for people to freeze in the autumn, rather than turn warm into apartments, or for the entire summer, the heating season bills of the previous winter will be paid. I think that home expenses should be the primary costs that people can afford, and I hope that the coalition will support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U13	Peter Võsa, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U14	I have three questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U15	Then you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U16	The first question is the situation of health care providers when they are found to be intoxicated. The inquiry is for Justice Minister Kristen Michal. On 23 May, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder sent a letter of formal notice to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, stressing that § 726 (1) and (6) and § 727 (5) and (9) of the Police and Border Guard Act are incompatible with the Constitution. The letter of formal notice was based on the fact that the Chancellor of Justice was approached by health care providers, who see a number of problems in the implementation of the procedures for the detection of drunkenness laid down in the Police and Border Guard Act. The letter of formal notice revealed that the main problems were the obligation of any health care provider to take a sample without prior administrative agreement, the potential risk to the health of the person suspected of being drinking, the lack of sufficient competence to assess his/her medical fitness, in particular in the case of drinking due to non-alcoholic substances, and the conflict with the principles of medical ethics. During the procedure, the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Hospitals' Association, the Ministry of Justice, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board were asked for a position. According to the results of the analysis, the Chancellor of Justice proposed to bring these paragraphs of the Police and Border Guard Act into line with the Constitution and to analyse the issue of adequacy of the protection of the rights of minors, the regulation of the detection of drugs in cooperation with specialised experts, and to clarify the safety of forced urine sampling in terms of the protection of the fundamental rights and health of the individual. Consequently...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U17	Good co-worker! Let's move on to the next question or draft. Two minutes is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U18	The inquiry is also for Justice Minister Kristen Michal. Mr. Minister for Justice. For some time now, Võru has been trying to find out about the suspicion of corruption in Võru's former governor and mayor Ülo Tulik. This person is allegedly not the most honest official of the state, since he used his influence as a governor of the country to put the money planned for the construction of the industrial area of Võru in the pocket of his son-in-law, Selista leader Indrek Klampe. As Mayor, Tulik helped Klampel get a deal by which the city undertook to build a street there at its own expense. Mr Tulik has intervened several times in public procurement procedures and has thus obtained favourable decisions for his son-in-law. In addition, the infringement of Mr Tulik's legislation regarding the privatisation of land has been highlighted. Andres Anvelt, Chairman of the Committee on Corruption in the Riigikogu, found that the accusations made are sufficient for the prosecutor's office to start a criminal case on their basis. On the basis of the above, we ask you to answer the following questions: Are you aware of the actions of Mr Ülo Tulik mentioned above? What is your comment on the inaction of the prosecutor's office in this situation? To what extent can the laws on investigations be implemented differently in similar cases? As Minister of Justice, are you contributing to the fight against corruption? If so, how exactly? There is also an inquiry into the same issue to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, without blaming anyone, but I think that everyone in Estonia is interesting to know. Mr. Minister of the Interior! For some time now, Võru has been trying to find out about the suspicion of corruption by former Võru County Elder Ülo Tulik... This whole thing looks like the last one, so I'd like to go to the questions. The questions to the Minister of the Interior are as follows: Are you aware of the activities described above by Mr Ülo Tulik? What is your comment on the situation, do you consider it justified not to initiate or delay a criminal case if such accusations exist? To what extent is it explained in this context that the defence police apprehended and arrested Narva's deputy mayor Andrei Filippov and the proceedings are ongoing against him? Under what circumstances has the Department of Corruption Crimes under investigation in the South Prefecture not begun to investigate this matter? To what extent is it possible that the investigation will not begin because of the close relationship between Mr. Meelis Saarepuu and Signe Drumm, executives of the Southern Prefecture, and Ülo Tulik's son-in-law? What is the reason for the swift action of the investigative authorities in the presence of alleged suspicions of corruption by the Central Partyrs? Is this reasonably explained in any way? As Minister of the Interior, have you retreated from the fight against corruption for what reason? How is it possible in the rule of law for the press to reflect the dubious corrupt actions of a state official for a month and the investigative authorities to remain silent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U19	I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair in Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U20	Good morning, Reverend. Good fellows! At this point, I would like to introduce you to the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, which I will also hand over on behalf of the Central Party Group. Unfortunately, our unemployment rate is still very high, although from time to time we can hear some positive news from the statistics that, for example, seasonal unemployment rates are falling slightly. However, quite quickly after that, there are facts that in reality it may be linked to the so-called "statistically deleted unemployed." At the same time, unfortunately, few jobs have been created so far, despite the hope that the crisis will be over. Looking at the number of unemployed people by region and also by who they are unemployed, there are quite a number of groups of unemployed people who find it very difficult to find a job and who need additional help to do so. One very clear and worrying group is young people, up to 26 years of age. Fortunately, unemployment is very high, with more than a third of our young people unemployed today, but there are still very many unemployed under the age of 26. The second group, which needs special attention, is disabled people who also have a very difficult job to find. For both groups, we propose a solution that, if they have been unemployed for six months, a social tax exemption could be applied within a year of being employed by the employer. Thank you and a good debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U21	Good colleagues, no more calls. On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and five inquiries, and according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further proceedings. Good fellows! We're conducting a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U22	Let us now deal with today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft Law on the Securities Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate, so we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Kadri Simson, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U23	This relates to the final vote. Before the final vote, I ask for ten minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U24	Got it. Good fellows! The Group of the Estonian Centre Party has asked for a ten-minute break. I'm declaring recess. The sitting will be resumed at 10.29 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U25	Good fellows! The break requested by the Estonian Centre Party Group has ended. It's 10:29 and we're going to continue our trial. We were in the middle of preparing the final eight votes on the draft law. So let's take it from there. Can we start the final vote? I will put draft 8 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour, there is no one against, but there are 3 abstentions. Draft Act 8 on amendments to the Securities Market Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U26	We will go to the second item, the second reading of the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax initiated by the Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. A procedural question before the proceedings begin. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U27	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Paragraph 73 of our Rules of Procedure, 'The impossibility of discussing the issue of the order of the day', states that it is not possible to discuss the agenda if the documents on which it is based have not been made available to the members of the Riigikogu in good time. At the moment, the story is that we have a point on the agenda entitled 'A bill to exempt homeowners from land tax', but such a bill cannot be obtained. Here at the back of the hall, among the draft laws available to the members of the Riigikogu, there is no bill with this name.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U28	If this bill isn't in the drawer, I apologize on the manager's side and ask the commission to put this bill in there, along with the staff serving the hall. Good fellows! We have a session of the Riigikogu and it is quite difficult for both the questioner and the respondent to speak when the noise in the hall gets so high. Please, Kadri Simson, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U29	There's been some mistake here, because the paper that's been put in our drawer bears the title 'The Land Tax Act Amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax'. Such a draft law has not been at first reading and the text does not correspond to what was at reading and on which the political groups of the Riigikogu were able to propose amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U30	Good co-worker! I once again have the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 7 June, where one of the decisions is as follows: 'Construction 51 to stop the second reading of the SE and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading on 15.06.2011 and put the draft to the final vote. 'In addition, the title of the law discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 7 June will be found in the minutes, and the title of the law will be 'The Land Tax Act amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts owners from land tax', which has been one of the Commission's amendments. So it coincides exactly with the draft that we are discussing right now. Priit Toobal, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U31	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just as embarrassed as you are. I have been here in the Riigikogu for a short time, and I have realised that the discussion of draft laws begins at first reading. It seems to me that the law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax, will be discussed at second reading. Why was the first reading canceled?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U32	Good co-worker! I think there's a reasonable reason why you're embarrassed. I have not been here in the Riigikogu for long, but I do have the experience of one. As we always do, amendments will be tabled at first reading, second reading. They have been proposed by a group, as far as I know, on this draft, as well as by the commission, who has proposed to change the title of the draft law. Eiki Nestor, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U33	Thank you. I am not at all embarrassed in the sense that the text of the draft law has changed. But there has been good practice in the Riigikogu, which is based on chapter 11 of our Rules of Procedure. The drafts will be discussed at several readings and, if the Commission presents a completely new text, as it is today, it is also natural that the Commission will decide to suspend the reading of the draft so that the MPs can make their proposals on the draft. Unfortunately, in this case, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not do so. Perhaps the Committee on Monetary Affairs should be given some time to reconsider its decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U34	Thank you, good co-worker. In the Management Board, we naturally follow the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act and this Act contains § 18 (2), which says that the Riigikogu's permanent committee prepares drafts for discussion in the Riigikogu's plenary session. However, as you mentioned, Mr Nestor, a good fellow official, it has been good practice that, if one draft is substantially amended, the second one will be interrupted. I am now relying on my purely personal experience and say, yes, it has been a practice, but we can also give an example where there has not been an interruption. With this bill, I can only judge by the size of the text. If you read the draft currently under discussion, the part of the text together with the title consists of 41 rows, 39 of which are new or amended and 2 rows remain the same. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has also made an assessment here, and it must consider not only the volume of the text but also the content. Could the Committee on Monetary Affairs discuss this issue again, as you proposed? This is an opportunity that the Commission always has, and it can always be organised. Priit Toobal, please, your procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Unlike Eiki Nestor, I'm still embarrassed. Would you please explain which bill we will then discuss as item 2 on this Thursday's agenda? Are we going to discuss the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, or are we going to discuss the draft law amending the Land Tax Act that exempts homeowners from land tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U36	Good questioner, I can solve this embarrassment very easily. We are still going to discuss this bill, as it is in the title of the item, but this bill has made quite a fine dose of changes in one amendment, including the title, and it is not excluded that by the time the second reading is completed, we will already have a slightly improved title on the bill. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U37	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Am I correct to understand that we are still discussing the bill with number number 51, which has already been read in the Riigikogu and which the Committee on Monetary Affairs has put to second reading today? According to the Rules of Procedure Act, the only thing that the Riigikogu really cannot change between readings is the number of the bill, not its content. Is that right, good chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U38	Good co-worker! You're absolutely right. I'd just add the alphabet to your idea, to this number, to the SE. Imre Sooäär, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U39	Thank you! I will continue with the question of Väino Linde. Does this supposedly second bill that Priit Toobal is talking about have a different number?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U40	Good fellow Imre Sooäär! You're much closer to Priit Toobal geographically than I am, and you can ask him. I'm having a hard time judging what he's thinking right now. Kadri Simson, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U41	Thank you, Mr President. I see number 51 on this draft, which is here at second reading, yet the text is absolutely different from that on which the political groups were able to propose amendments after the first reading. The only thing left of the previous draft law is two lines on the entry into force of the law, that the law will enter into force at the same time as the previous draft, which we had on the table under the same number. After the first reading, the political groups were able to propose amendments, after the second reading, when it was closed on a proposal from the Commission, we would not be able to change the draft in substance. Is it? How can the Central Party Group propose amendments to this new bill bearing the same number in accordance with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U42	Good co-worker, I'm repeating my response to Eiki Nestor. In my opinion, we have had this, on the basis of my experience, good practice, that if the text has been substantially amended, then the second reading will be interrupted. At the same time, § 104 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states that the draft will be placed on the agenda for a second reading on the proposal of the commission, and this proposal has been made by the commission, in this case the Finance Committee. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U43	Thank you, Mr President. I'm getting more worried. If only the number of drafts under discussion must remain the same, can it not happen that, for example, under the item entitled 'Proposal for ratification of the 2006 International Tropical Timber Treaty, initiated by the Government of the Republic', the issue of gender equality will be discussed instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U44	Good co-worker! This procedural question is difficult for me to relate to the procedural issues on this item. So, unfortunately, I can't bring these parallels. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U45	Good manager! Now I'm even embarrassed. I've realised here for 20 years that we are discussing the content of the drafts, now it turns out that numbers. What should we discuss, the content of the drafts or the numbers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U46	Thank you, good co-worker. Beauty is always in the eyes of the viewer. I think that content is crucial, but in order to monitor in the table how draft laws need to be discussed at first, second and third readings, the numbers are, of course, important at some point. Javier in clothing, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U47	Thank you. Am I on the right path when I say that the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu do not provide for an initial legislative course in a large hall, and all such difficulties should be resolved outside the Chamber? Perhaps we could consider all these procedural questions answered?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U48	Thank you, good co-worker in Taavi's garment! It is difficult for me to conclude a round of procedural questions here, because this opportunity has been given by the law of the Riigikogu on home and working procedures. But just as I answered one of your good colleagues yesterday, I would also answer your question: I think you can be sure that you are on the right track. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U49	I have this procedural question. I'd like to relieve the Centre Party of some embarrassment. The draft law 51 was proposed for improvement. One group proposed three improvements, one of which was also to change the title. So, in principle, we would have had a draft law with a third title in the worst case. You asked for the same thing! You've now received a bill with a new title, so you don't really have to be embarrassed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U50	Good fellow Valdo Randpere! I didn't exactly read the procedural question out of your question, but such a benevolent initiative to help another fellow official; the other group is always welcome here in the Riigikogu Chamber. So thank you so much for that! Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The text of this draft is completely different from what was on this table at first reading. You said that, according to good practice, in the event of such a revision of the text, the opposition should also have the opportunity to propose amendments. However, the current situation is that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has decided to close the second reading with one more vote than there were against. The only way that the opposition could propose amendments to this new draft law would be if the Committee on Monetary Affairs changed its decision and decided to stop reading. At the same time, we currently have this item on the agenda and the Committee on Monetary Affairs will not be able to change its decision during the break and to consider how, in accordance with democratic parliamentary procedures, the opposition would also be able to contribute to the text of the new draft law. How can this situation be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U52	Thank you. I will first respond to your claim that we have a completely new bill. I cannot agree with that, because there is a complete overlap between § 2, entitled 'Entry into force of the Law', which states that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2013. So it's a total overlap. However, on the good practice you are talking about, I say so much that good practice is unfortunately or, fortunately, not included in the law. And the law says, as I have said before, that the procedure of a draft law in the Riigikogu is led by a commission which has really made a decision, as I have read before, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading be stopped. This decision has received as many as 6 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. Let's keep going. Raivo Järvi, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Unlike many speakers, I am neither the first nor the second, and I am very familiar with the dilemma between de facto and de iure. Everyone knows which side to stay on. But in both war and love, all the means are allowed, and in this situation, I congratulate the President of the sitting on his proper functioning. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U54	Thank you! Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U55	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'd take the opportunity to ask a procedural question. § 92 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states that the draft must comply with the technical rules laid down by the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, and subsection 3 of the same section states that the draft is accompanied by an explanatory memorandum justifying its initiation or presentation. We now have before us the law on the amendment of the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax. Has the Management Board of the Riigikogu discussed and considered it justified that, unlike what is required by our Home and Working Procedures Act, this time it is not explained, justified and motivated in the explanatory memorandum but in the title? Is this future good practice and the requirement that the explanatory memorandum may be incorporated in part or in full by the title of the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U56	Thank you, good co-worker. As I have answered here several times, this good practice can be interpreted by any member of the Riigikogu in one way or another. I have made my personal assessment of this, but as a manager, I can still rely on the sections and paragraphs of the Home and Working Procedures Act that have been given to the Board and the President of the Riigikogu. And if we appreciate the norm issues of this bill, the lead commission has not found any problems here. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U57	Thank you, Mr President. There's one more thing that worries me. I am concerned that Mr Rõivas suggested that procedural questions be stopped. I would like to remind him that § 74 'Protests and Questions on Procedures for Conducting a Session' of the Riigikogu Act states that if a member of the Riigikogu wishes to have an explanation of the rules governing the conduct of a sitting, he may ask the President of the sitting a question. Paragraph 3 says: 'A protest or a question is made by a member of the Riigikogu by raising his hand. The President of the sitting shall authorise the lodging of a protest or a question on the agenda. Paragraph 4 states that the President of the sitting shall settle the protest or answer the question without delay. So the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows members of the Riigikogu to submit protests and procedural questions and thank you very much for having answered everyone immediately!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U58	Thank you! That is right, members of the Riigikogu have the right to ask procedural questions. I don't see any violation of procedural questions here, maybe just one. Perhaps the President of the sitting has not always resolved protests or answered questions without delay on the draft currently pending, there has been a slight delay, but I will try to be better. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U59	Thank you, Mr President. I guess they're messing with my head in this hall. Here's the question. Mr President, am I also on the right track if I understand that committees, including the honourable Committee on Monetary Affairs, can make all kinds of proposals to the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, including a proposal to stop second reading, but the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu decides whether the second reading is terminated or interrupted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U60	Thank you, good fellow. That's right. In the case of Bill 51, the commission has proposed to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading be stopped. I'm just saying that together we're strong, and I think we're gonna get over this problem here, too. Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U61	Thank you very much. I just went down to the front door. Samson and Toobal have a meeting there, they're waiting there. Please, maybe we can get them there, then we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U62	Thank you, good fellow, but I don't think that's a procedural question. Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U63	Thank you. The question, like many others, is it correct for me to understand that the procedural questions of the Centre Party regarding the title of the new draft law are directly related to Amendment 2, tabled by the Centre Party Group, and where they want to change the title completely second?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U64	Thank you, good fellow. It is difficult for me, as President, to make an assessment of what the Centre Party Group wants with its procedural questions. I've been trying to answer them as well as I've ever been able to. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U65	Thank you. The question of the Centre Party Group is due to the fact that we have before us a completely new text of the law on which neither the Central Party Group nor any other opposition group will be able to propose amendments. I would point out that when this bill was on our desk at first reading, it touched a country with an apartment or a house on it. At this point in time, we have before us a draft law which also regulates the tax rate on arable land and natural grassland already used for the production of agricultural products. This draft has been amended to such an extent that it is also necessary to give the opportunity to propose amendments to this new text.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U66	Thank you. All of this must be decided by the lead committee when dealing with the draft, and the lead committee has taken its decisions here. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U67	Thank you, Mr President. I am taking this opportunity to speak in accordance with § 70 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, as a good colleague Juku-Kalle Raid used my name in his procedural question or position. I remind Juku-Kalle of Chapter 8 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, which concerns the working hours of the Riigikogu. Paragraph 47 (1) (4) of this section states that on Thursday from 10 to 13 o'clock the members of the Riigikogu have the sitting and working hours of the Riigikogu. I think that at this time, the members of the Riigikogu should not agree to meetings under them; this is working time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U68	Thank you. I can only acknowledge the good colleagues who have the nuances and paragraphs of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act well in hand. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Is there a legitimate expectation for a member of the Riigikogu that he will be able to hear an overview of the administration of justice, the administration of justice and the uniform application of the law today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U70	This is certainly a legitimate expectation, because in cooperation the Riigikogu has decided on the agenda of the plenary assembly on Monday, and I hope that the President of the Supreme Court will also be there. How today's trial is going is difficult to say. Sven Sester, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U71	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Rules of Procedure Act affects or deals with this situation when the same question is asked six times in a row. Are you guys always gonna answer the same thing, and that's how hours and hours go?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U72	The Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provides that if a member of the Riigikogu has a procedural question, the President must answer that question and even provides for an immediate answer. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The joint part of the bill on our tables today and the emotional bullshit discussed last time is completely non-existent. In today's draft law, I would like to propose amendments. How can I exercise the right provided for in the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U74	Good co-worker Kalev Eagle and other good co-workers! It is very difficult for me, practically impossible to give a good answer to this question because it cannot be done. What can I do here today? Since I can see that this discussion is now focused on whether or not there are any further amendments to draft 51, I can only use one option to remove these procedural issues. I have a request to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that you meet for a moment and renegotiate whether or not this is an option. This can be done by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I am right to take the President's ten-minute break and please do so. The sitting will be resumed on 11.04.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U75	Good fellows! The manager has that right, but I'm asking you, too, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U76	Dear colleagues, it is 11.04 a.m., the break taken by the Head of the Riigikogu has ended. First of all, I would like to thank the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs sincerely: thank you for meeting. I've been talking to the Chairman of the Monetary Commission. The position of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is to propose to the Assembly that the second reading be closed. The majority of the Committee on Monetary Affairs supported this by the votes of six to five. I hope that we can now move on to the draft procedure. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U77	Thank you, Mr President. However, one very strictly procedural question concerning our previous procedural debate. In particular, Mr Toobal used the opportunity to speak here, after which you congratulated him on his knowledge of the Rules of Procedure. Previous interpretations say that the address, as it is regulated in § 70 of our Home and Working Procedures Act, concerns the speech as it is regulated in § 69 of the same Law. Both do not include protests and questions about the procedure for conducting a hearing, as set out in § 74, i.e. the right to address procedural questions cannot actually be exercised. Would you perhaps take back your congratulations to my colleague, Mr Toobal, on a thorough knowledge of the Home and Working Procedures Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U78	Thank you. I won't, and I'll give you my congratulations. But you're right about what you read. Would Inara Luigas like a procedural question? Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U79	Here's my question. When this bill came to this hall for the first time, it was entitled "The Land Tax Exemption Act for Homeowners." We dealt with this draft law in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, at second reading, we examined the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax. The members of the Commission had not been sent to the text of the law before that. Nor did this bill have an explanatory statement. This bill also lacks the opinion of the Government of the Republic. How can we treat this bill in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U80	Thank you. I am more than convinced that the commission of the commission was based on § 101 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, which states that the commission will draft a new text for the second reading, which will incorporate all the amendments taken into consideration and the amendments made by the commission itself. I believe he was based on it. Good fellows! As manager, I have a sincere request. We have now handled these procedural issues quite well, and I thank you for them, but I believe it is also important to hear the Commission's position as to why this draft has been dealt with in this way. I have a sincere request that we now go to the procedure for this draft. Inara Luigas, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U81	You read out § 101, which states that the commission will draft a new text for the second reading, which will include all the amendments that have been taken into account. Those proposals that were taken into this bill, we haven't met. So the rules were already broken in the Riigikogu commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U82	Thank you. At the same time, the second part of the sentence of § 101 says: '... and changes made by the commission itself. " Thank you, good fellows! Let's move on to the trial. I will specify, we are at the second reading of Bill 51 and we have reached the second reading report. I would ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester, to discuss this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will dwell on this good bill, which bears the number 51 and will have a new title, if we approve it in the hall today, to have the Land Tax Act Amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax. I would like to give you a thorough overview: I will start with a title change, then I will talk about a second stop and then I will go to the content issues. I hope that our later debate will no longer be as embarrassing as it is now, and we will talk about content, whether there is a need for land tax exemption or not, how to do it, what size, etc. And when we have come to the content issues, I will give you an overview of the Commission's working meetings, which were held on 7 June and also just ten minutes ago, and then of the stakeholder meeting on 6 June. I would conclude my report with the amendments that we have on the tables today, and I will finally talk about the decisions. That could be the structure of my presentation today. I'll start with what I've been most interested in today. Unfortunately, these have not really been the points of content that have been discussed here for an hour today, but procedural questions. I'll tell you the story of the change of title. As far as I have done my homework, I have realised that there is a document such as the norm of the drafts to be processed in the Riigikogu, and paragraph 38 (1) of that section sets out the requirements for the title of the draft law amending or repealing the law. So what's this point like? It says this: 'The title of the draft law amending or repealing the act must include the name of the law to be amended or repealed, to which information opening up the content of the draft act may be added, if necessary. If the draft law amending or repealing the law provides for the amendment or repeal of more than two laws, the title of the draft law shall indicate their common area of regulation instead of the names of the laws to be amended. " It is therefore not a crime to add content information to the title, but the title really should mention a specific draft law that will be amended. This is also the basis of the amendment. Now for the interruption of second reading. § 107 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu lays down the following requirements regarding the termination of the second reading. The Riigikogu interrupts the second reading of the draft on the proposal of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, the lead commission or the initiator of the draft without voting. However, if a political group proposes an interruption, the vote will take place. The law must have been adopted in accordance with the rules of the procedure of the draft law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. For example, the President has failed to declare the law if it has been adopted in a manner which does not conform to the Constitution, if the rules of the draft procedure have been violated in its proceedings to such an extent that it is treated as a significant violation of the process of shaping the decision of the Riigikogu. The process of shaping the decision of the Riigikogu has been violated, for example, if one of the members of the Riigikogu has been deprived of the opportunity to participate in the drafting of the law. This is the case, for example, when the draft is supplemented by topics in the commission which are not in the least related to the subject matter and purpose of the draft submitted to the proceedings, and as a result the members of the Riigikogu do not, above all, have the opportunity to table, discuss and vote on amendments. The Commission discussed the interruption of second reading, if I am not mistaken, it was Mr Nestor's proposal. The Commission's amendment, which has now been introduced, is clearly linked to the draft that has been initiated, which we do not have any problems with. The amendment bears the same objective as the draft that has been initiated. The amendment clarifies the tax relief and organises the related provisions. These changes mainly consist in changing the position of the norm. First, one provision of § 4 has been transferred to § 11. These are the causes of tax-theoretical applications, and the content remains the same. Clarification of terminology used. "Homeland', "Homeland's outcrop', "Greatness' etc. has been brought in. In the original wording of the originator, with regard to making other clarifications, it could be said that the issue of equal treatment between persons has been introduced into the building cooperative and the application of the exemption in the case of co-ownership has been specified. In line with the Practical Guide, a new wording has been introduced and the addition of paragraphs from the old law to the current amendment has added to the volume. An implementing rule has been introduced which was not previously subject to the exemption criteria as at 1 January. What else can be said about interrupting second reading is that only a change in the volume of the draft does not constitute a breach of procedural rules, at least so it seems to me, and does not need to be given the opportunity to submit further amendments. When we interrupt the second reading, we cannot assume that every clarification of the wording is followed by the likelihood of amendments being tabled. Then we could stay in a virvard where we always interrupt until, in the end, there is a 'consensual policy' and there will be no change. Unfortunately, we do not have a consensus policy and the majority must decide at some point here. Finally, as regards the suspension of second reading, there were already issues at first reading that the Commission wanted to clarify in the future procedure. The letter from the Ministry of Finance explaining the opinion of the Government of the Republic drew attention to the main issues to be clarified, and these issues have been reflected in the amendment. So the information has been available to everyone in time. I'll go to the bottom of it now. On 7 June, the Commission discussed the draft on its main presentation and today, just before I came here as a rapporteur. Three proposals from the Estonian Central Party Group were received by the deadline for amendments, and the Commission itself made one amendment to the draft. Before I go to these amendments, I will give an overview of what Urmas Reinsalu, the representative of the initiators of the draft, said in the committee. He gave an additional overview of why the Commission had to deal with this draft and pointed out four reasons. First of all, in Estonia, people's housing costs per household member are high and this bill reduces the forced housing costs. According to a household budget survey carried out at Statistics Estonia, a household member spent 50 euros per month on housing in 2010. According to Statistics Estonia, housing expenditure has increased compared to the pre-masus time, and the largest housing expenditures are for urban residents. Secondly, as a result of the housing and property reform, the vast majority of Estonian households are owner-occupied housing, with almost 90% of the housing fund in private ownership. In comparison, this percentage is 67 in Finland and 42 in Germany. While in 1994 the Estonian state or local governments owned 71% of all dwellings, at the beginning of 2002, this percentage was only 4.2. Therefore, the social structure and economic performance of homeowners as owners of their permanent residence are also very different. The extensive housing arrangements chosen in the country's housing policy require measures from the state to facilitate the ability to cope with fixed housing costs. Thirdly, the initiator of the draft law in the Commission pointed out that in some municipalities, high land tax related to home ownership has, in absolute terms, become an obvious burden on property. Fourthly, the current high tax burden on home ownership can, as administrative pressure, lead to the breakdown of communities in regions of environmental value. These were then the primary reasons for initiating the draft for further examination by the Commission. Before I go to the amendments, I will also give you an overview of the working meeting on 6 June, which was attended by stakeholders or, let us say, organisations that are directly or indirectly affected by this draft. I had invited representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Association of Estonian Taxpayers, the Association of Estonian Apartments Cooperatives and the Central Union of Estonian Owners, both as chairman of the committee and as the leading manager of this draft. The Mayor of Harku's parish, Kaupo Rätsep, had been specifically invited to talk about how the municipality had gone, because Harku is one of the few rural municipalities where the land tax has been lost. The meeting was constructive. On the one hand, it was the intention of the initiators of the draft, as well as all the members of the Commission, to obtain the information that these stakeholders, organisations, think that this information would reach the decision-makers and, on the other hand, to obtain answers to a number of questions. What were the subjects upstairs? The first question raised by the Cities Union was the question of the revenue base, which we have had before in this Chamber and in the Commission, i.e. how the revenue base will be compensated when the land tax disappears. The representatives of the Cities Association also asked for clarification of the explanatory memorandum because they do not understand exactly what should be done and how to do it. The Association of Municipalities wanted to know what the future approach would be under this law, whether it was a personal or land-based approach. They also raised the issue of the revenue base; for them it was still unclear how the revenue base would be covered. In addition, they pointed out the issues of state administration costs and procedures, i.e. that each change costs something, whether the state is ready for it in terms of information technology and financial resources. The Municipalities Association also raised the issue of the regular valuation of the land. They wanted to know what the government's opinion is now. Both associations stated that, until these answers were found, they were hesitant and rather negative. The taxpayer association gave a very clear positive point to the debate on this draft. They support it, but some questions were also raised. Their representative said that the future exemption from land tax for homeowners should certainly not take the form of'mechanised' declarations. That would certainly be a very high cost for administration and also financially. Issues related to the acquisition of rent and rent income were also raised, so that its administration by the Tax and Customs Board and all related to it should be included in the draft. The Association of Housing Cooperatives was very positive, clearly supported. They did a survey, and they also sent me information from the poll that their members thought. If that's what you're asking me today, I'll be able to talk about it. The Estonian Owners' Confederation was very supportive. They said you should increase the surface area instead. Rather, a signal was given that instead of 1500 m2 or 2 acres, you could actually look at larger numbers. Finally, Harku's parish elder, Kaupo Rätseppa, spoke. He said that they had long wondered whether to make this tax exemption or not, and had made phone positioning in their domain. Don't ask me how it's done, I don't know, but it's possible to find out how many phone units there are in the field some days, and it can make its own conclusions that so many people are supposed to actually live in this area. In any case, it is a fact that it encouraged them to take a decision to exempt them from the land tax. Today's situation is, as shown by the data we were given at the meeting table, that almost 500 people have registered themselves since that period, which in turn means real additional income tax receipts for the municipality. This is certainly not the case for all rural municipalities, but the example of Harku at least confirms that they have also had a real benefit from this exemption. These were the main points of the June 6 meeting. Now I will go to the amendments. As I said, three amendments were received from the Centre Party Group, and the Commission itself made one amendment. I would go over them in a row and give an overview of the amendments. These are questions of content, not procedural questions. I will start with Amendment 1, which came from the Commission itself. First of all, the bill's title is amended: the Land Tax Act amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax. This is the subject I spoke about at the beginning of my presentation. I will not dwell on it any longer. So much for me to say that there is both a specific law in the revised title, which will be amended, as well as additional information on content. Now on with the following changes. Paragraph 11 (1) is amended, according to which the owner of the land, including the owner of the apartment property or the user of the land provided for in § 10 of the Land Tax Act, is exempted from the payment of the land tax in the part of the town, town, town, village, village and area designated as a densely populated area by the municipality or county manager with a general plan, up to 0,15 hectares and not more than 2 hectares if the person is permanently resident in a building located on that land in accordance with the data of residence recorded in the population register. According to the draft, four factors are required to be present simultaneously in order to benefit from the land tax exemption. So what are the four things? Let's go over it. The person must be the owner of the land or the user of the land within the meaning of § 10 of the Land Tax Act. Secondly, the land to be exempt from the land tax must be an outermost part of the land for the purpose of housing or for the purpose of the land to which the land is assigned. Thirdly, a building must be located on land to be exempt from land tax. Fourth, in a building on a land tax exempt land, the owner of the land or the user of the land has a permanent residence according to the residence data recorded in the population register. These four conditions must then be met simultaneously. Paragraph 2 deals with equal treatment. Building associations have been introduced, which did not exist in the past, but which in no way alter the meaning of the law. In fact, we were informed that the building associations, if I am not mistaken, are 974 in Estonia, and this change affects about 200 or more of them. It is very clearly defined here that the residential land of the building cooperative will be exempted from paying the land tax... Is my time up?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U84	You have 26 seconds, but you can always give more time in agreement with the waitress if the waitress wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U85	I'd like to, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U86	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U87	How much is possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U88	Reasonably.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U89	I understand the opposition would want me to talk here for three hours. I certainly don't want to talk for three hours, but I might need up to 10 minutes or less.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U90	I don't think they mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U91	Thank you for helping me chair this sitting. I'm asking you to give the waitress ten more minutes, as she wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U92	There were happy faces in the hall. I'll keep going. Rather, I would like to speak thoroughly so that we can all understand in the same way what we are doing here today. Let's find a time and not talk about procedural matters. Paragraph 2 relates to a building cooperative and specifies that the contributions of the members of a self-employed building cooperative shall be released proportionally if, according to the information recorded in the population register, they reside in a specific building located specifically in that municipality or city. Paragraph 3 provides that where land is co-owned and co-owners are resident in a land-based building exempted from land tax according to the population register, the co-owners shall be exempt from the payment of land tax under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 for the surface area of residential land or land-for-profit land in the city, the city within the rural municipality, etc., in the case of dense settlements of 0,15 ha and 2,0 ha respectively in the case of diffuse settlements. Paragraph 4 has been taken over. The second meeting, which took place today during the intermission, touched on the land used for the production of agricultural products, etc. I would like to remind you that paragraph 4 has been transposed from the law in force and added further to it so that the whole section can be unambiguously understood by everyone. So there are no separate changes here. There are no significant changes to paragraph 5. I would point out here that, if the draft was adopted, there would be a situation where everyone would receive land tax relief, 0.15 ha for dense settlements and 2.0 ha for diffuse settlements, currently the local government would be entitled to exempt pension beneficiaries from paying land tax up to 0.3 ha in densely populated areas and 2 ha in diffuse settlements. In paragraph 5, it is now converted to 0.3 ha 0.15, which means that the local government has the additional right to exempt pension beneficiaries from this tax to an additional 0.15 ha. Pensioners will still be able to obtain an exemption of 0.3 ha on request, of which 0.15 ha has been automatically exempted by law. Paragraph 6 is analogous to and concerns those who are repressed and treated in the same way as those who are repressed. It's completely transferred from the former law, they have a full exemption. Paragraph 7 states that a written declaration is required if the municipality grants this exemption. Once again, this is essentially a one-to-one paragraph, and there is no change. Paragraph 8 provides for the creation of a basis for exemption. Mr. Riisalu, are you listening to me? Thank you. It's a pleasure. The exemption shall apply from 1 January of the year following that in which the exemption was granted. Where the basis for the exemption arises on 1 January, the exemption shall be granted on the same day. There were 6 people in favour of this amendment, which I spoke of, and only 1 person opposed. One could say that this was a very good amendment, there were practically no votes against and 3 abstentions. The second amendment is from the Centre Party Group. The Centre Party also proposed to change the title. As the Commission's own proposal had already been dealt with and the change of title had been supported, I proposed, as chairman of the committee, that we consider the clarification of this title to be partially taken into account, because the content of the proposal by the Centre Party Group has actually been taken into account in this amendment. A consensual decision is needed in order to be considered partially. Everyone was in favour, except for one member of the Central Party Group. As there was no full consensus, the proposal was put to the vote. The proposal was not supported, supported by 5 and was against 6. We could not consider the proposal partially taken into account. The second proposal of the Centre Party Group was of a fine-tuning nature, a dense settlement and a diffuse settlement were introduced. Again, since this issue had already been discussed in the Commission's own proposal, no one asked for a separate vote and the decision to take part in the second amendment was supported by consensus. The last amendment, the fourth amendment, which was the third amendment by the Centre Party Group, was the proposal to amend the implementing provision. The aim was to introduce a finance minister's regulation that if revenue was reduced, it would be compensated to the local government by 31 March each year with an additional allocation from the state budget. Initiators support the principle of compensation, but not the proposed form, with a specific fixing in the Land Tax Act. The coalition's representatives in the Commission confirmed that compensation mechanisms would come up very clearly. This proposal was put to the vote and it was not supported, with 5 votes in favour and 6 against. After all these amendments had been voted through, we reached the stage of our procedure where we needed to vote on completing the second reading and taking it to the third reading. Those procedural procedures that said that we were going to do a second reading today were already done before. When we voted to conclude the second reading, 6 were in favour and 5 were against, i.e. the Commission considered that the second reading could be terminated (I am speaking about the meeting on 7 June). The second decision was that when the second reading was completed, the third reading would take place on 15 June. It was also supported by 6 and against 5 members of the Commission. And when an additional meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was held today, where we talked about the same issues mainly in the context of the interruption of second reading, with 6 votes in favour, 5 against, it was found that the second reading would be continued and the reading would be discontinued. This was the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a large hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U93	Thank you! Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U94	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I'm coming back to the bill's point about building cooperatives. As far as I am concerned, we use two terms, there are building associations that are less common, and there are housing associations that are much more common here in Tallinn and elsewhere in Estonia. Tell me, please, in this law, are these two concepts equalized that building associations and housing associations are the same thing? Or isn't, and that means that the housing associations aren't going to go under this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U95	Thank you. It is good to answer substantive questions. No, you do not misunderstand in the context that building associations and housing associations are two different things, and building associations are, of course, much less than housing cooperatives today. Let's say, the difference between a tax point and a land tax point in housing associations comes directly to the owners of the apartments, and in building associations it comes to the building association itself, and the building cooperative is forced to pay. And since they have a slightly different status, a separate building association has also been introduced as a term and a clear indication has been given that all members of building cooperatives as homeowners will also have the opportunity to get rid of the land tax. Apartment owners have already been given this opportunity in the general framework of this bill; each apartment owner has this option. Speaking about building cooperatives, there was also a question in the Commission about the general direction of whether Estonia is heading towards increasing or decreasing the number of building cooperatives. The trend is clearly in the direction of the reduction of building associations, at least at that point in time there was such information. There are many reasons here, since it is certainly more difficult to obtain a loan from a bank as a member of a building cooperative, etc., because a member of a building cooperative is part of a large association in accordance with the Law on Non-Profit Associations and therefore must be approved by the association. The problem had to be that the law on building cooperatives had to be amended at all and that the Government of the Republic would be able to deal with it in the future. It also turned out in the Commission that if the building management company today wanted to change its ownership form and become a building management company for example, it would be a duty to obtain 100% consent. This raises the problem that, even if they want to change their ownership form, 100% is often not reached, a person may not be in Estonia or may not have any interest in it at all. But I think that the Government of the Republic could certainly think about it and make this 100% requirement maybe just a majority requirement. However, this is not an issue at this stage of the procedure that we should open for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U96	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U97	Thank you. Am I right in remembering that neither the Committee on Monetary Affairs nor the initial meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which also included representatives of the local governments' associations, has so far been discussing the compensation mechanism, how the loss of the legal base will be compensated for by the local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U98	Thank you, good questioner! Once again, it is a very substantive question and it is a pleasure to answer the substantive questions. It has a blade of truth and a blade of truth. What I mean by that is that if the question is whether the scheme for compensating local authorities in 2013 for the cost they have incurred at that time has been developed, then it must be said that this mechanism has not been developed. When we ask what is the position of the current coalition in this regard, it is very clear that such compensation will come. I see that in yesterday's Question Time, Prime Minister Ansip has said in response to Eldar Efendiev's question: 'With the current volume of GDP, this would mean that instead of 11.4% local governments would receive 11.724% of personal income tax. That would be a fair compensation. We should certainly not punish the local authorities who have already abolished the tax on the land under their home, and we certainly should not reward the local government, for example, which has cascated 20000, 30000 or 50000 kroons of land tax per year from the inhabitants of Tallinn. If we were to compensate for this land tax of $50,000 or even $20,000, then we would admit that it was fair and that the state will now assume that obligation. We're not going to do that. " The point of the answer, then, was whether it comes through the personal income tax percentages mentioned by the Prime Minister or through the Equalisation Fund, that is clear. One thing is clear: this must certainly not be delayed until 2013, as local authorities will still presumably close their budgets as early as autumn 2012. I think that here the government should certainly rush to develop it this year, if possible. This designation has also been given to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U99	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U100	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. In the new explanatory memorandum you have prepared, item 8 'Construction terminology'. You are saying that the new terms will not be introduced and that, for the purposes of the title of the draft, the homeowner means a person who, according to the population register, lives in a building in the land he owns, as well as a self-employed member of a building cooperative. You are content here with the new term 'homeowner', which goes against the furnishings that already exist in the legislation, such as the Housing Act, which provides that a person has the right to a dwelling even if he is not the owner, but has, for example, a dwelling rental contract for the use of a dwelling, has membership in a housing cooperative, ownership of a space or other legal basis. In fact, you restrict the existing term 'right to home' if there is a legal and legal basis for this, and you claim that you do not have a new term.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U101	Thank you. We'll have a different opinion in that sense, Madame Asker. We are still of the opinion that there are no new terms and that, in the sense set out in the title of the draft, the home owner means a person who, according to the population register, lives in a building in the land he owns, as well as a self-employed member of the housing association. We have said very clearly what we mean by homeowner.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U102	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U103	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You have read well the explanatory memorandum to the bill, which says that according to Statistics Estonia, households spend an average of 50 euros per month on housing, which is really a lot. Can you tell me how much of this amount is spent on land tax on average? As Chairman of the Committee on Finance, you have certainly also identified this important figure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U104	I can tell you what the general rate of land tax is for people. I can say that the real average rate of land tax in local governments rose from 1.59% in 2009 to 1.62% in 2010. But if you're asking me how much the 50 kroons worth of land tax and how much electricity, for example, I really have to say I don't have that order of magnitude right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U105	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U106	Dear waitress, You have already quoted yesterday's Prime Minister's view that the missing land tax money will be compensated by raising the proportion of personal income tax that is transferred to municipalities from 11.4% to 11.72%. This situation reminds me of Eduard Vilde's play Pihuhänd, namely Tiit Piibeleht's activities, which Vestmann appreciated so that the Bible page would come to his daughter with his own money. The coalition's representatives have repeatedly promised local authorities that this recently cut percentage will be restored. How do you think you really consider this to be a fair and serious measure by local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U107	Thank you. I think I'm a serious measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U108	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I also want to raise the issue of compensation. I understand that this mechanism is the subject of discussion. At the moment, practically only vision and possible alternatives are being discussed. But the strong word for the Prime Minister was that the state should commit itself to repaying and compensating. I have this question: why can't this hard word be reflected in the bill? There would then be no doubt that this compensation will really come and that this compensation will not be a one-off one, but will continue to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U110	Thank you. Very good answer to the substantive question! Let's talk about this one-off or permanent support thing first. This is the correct observation and the draft explanatory memorandum specifically states that compensation must take place on a permanent basis, not only in 2013, after which it is said, for example, that we have fulfilled our promise. This theme of persistence is very clearly identified. The other part of the question was, why hasn't it been pointed out yet? Good questioner, it is still unclear what the real level of spending is. We have operated with 16.6 million, or rounded it to 17 million. We took up this issue once again at the meeting of the Commission, where there were also the officials of the Ministry of Finance, and we wanted to know more as members of the Commission how this 17 million will come. It turned out that 17 million should be, if you take all the residential land that can be covered by the tax exemption, all the residential land that is in Estonia that there is a so-called carpet exemption. Since, in real terms, at least 1500 square metres of densely populated area and 2000 scattered settlements are foreseen according to the current draft, the Ministry of Finance does not have the final clarity of what this figure is. The positive thing is that when the final clarity arrives, it is likely that this figure will certainly be less than 17 million, figures such as 10 to 14 million have gone through. I think that once this figure has finally become clear, once we have passed the law and we know what the will of the legislators is, the Government of the Republic will definitely work on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U111	Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Minister of Finance discussed the law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels in this Chamber and said that taxes and social expenditure should be collected from collected taxes. The changes in the legislative environment need to be seen in synergy, as policy emerges from this combination. We currently have the land tax exemption law in the proceedings, the root cause of which, as the Prime Minister has recognised here, is the land tax of the city of Tallinn. The rural population receives a land tax exemption of EUR 100 per year. At the same time, a law which deprives employers of the same rural population of an important measure of competitiveness and thousands of euros per year is in the process, with a total of EUR 30 million per year. How do you think these two laws interact with the rural population, and what is the policy that such changes actually carry together?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U113	Thank you. You know, you have already gone a little far in addressing your question, not even in addressing it, but in expressing it, I think. In my opinion, you have gone to Rappa by not talking about the land tax exemption for residents of Tallinn here, but about the land tax exemption for all Estonian homeowners. So this law extends to all people who live in Ida-Virumaa or South Estonia, it is not Tallinn-centred. Since you have already asked me this question, I have a good opportunity to talk about how people who do not live in Tallinn feel about the liberations. I'm quoting some letters from people. Letters have come from Tallinn as well as from elsewhere. I'll give you some examples. 'My current land tax has been EUR 168 from 611 square metres. My land under home is co-owned with my husband, so my family's real land tax burden is 328 euros a year. The total land is 1223 square meters. At the same time, the size of my family is five people, three of whom are my children. In my opinion, this extra tax burden is quite high for our family. ' Or, for example, 'The land under house must be freed from land tax. My expenses on land tax from 1200 square metres (this is Tallinn's person, S.S.) have been 1638 kroons in 2007 on residential land located in Tallinn, since 2008 when the city of Tallinn raised the land tax sharply, it rose from 1638 to 4950 kroons in 2011 and this amount is 261,75 euros. 'Or, again, this: 'I am in favour of the exemption of the land under home,' so man has written to the central union of the owners. From '1200 square meters, I pay 508 euros a year, I'm in Pirita. " Other emotional letters have come. In the case of Harjumaa, for example, an example. I do not know what man has thought of such a saying, but he begins his letter: "Fortunately, the father lives not in the area of influence, but in Harjumaa. There is a small plot and therefore land tax in Estonian money 700 Estonian kroons. What's a land tax for when I've privatized the land? " There are many of these people. Communicate with your voters and you will see that this is not a Tallinn issue, it is a super-Estonian issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U114	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I have such a very pragmatic question. As we know under the Land Tax Act, this tax is monitored by the Tax and Customs Board. At the same time, in the context of this legislative amendment, we are talking about the state giving a certain amount of its budget to the local authorities for compensation, i.e. some reduction in the resources of the Treasury. We are also talking about the so-called organisation, control of this tax becoming more difficult, because there are quite a lot of differences being introduced into the law, about the building, which must certainly be the basis, etc. My question is: I do not see in the explanatory memorandum the possible additional costs of administering this tax at the expense of the tax administration. Has this been mentioned in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U116	Thank you. A good substantive and very specific issue. If the data is available, then it is only a pleasure to transmit them to you. The data is. In addition to the officials of the Ministry of Finance, we had a working group in which the initiators of the draft put together representatives of the Tax and Customs Board, and we asked them for information. The current information says that the cost of administrating the procedure is EUR 32000 for the whole of this draft to become a law. This is a one-off cost that really needs to be done, and after that the system works correctly. That's the information we have right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U117	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I briefly recall the subject I raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I spoke there about the facts presented in the audit of the National Audit Office. A sample check found that 48 of the 85 newly built buildings currently standing in nine municipalities did not have a building permit, i.e. an authorisation. However, this law does not make much difference as to whether the building was built legally or not. I made a specific offer, this law could achieve a very good result. It could be a law that prevents illegal buildings from being built. Why do you think the Commission decided not to deal with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U119	I have separately written down some of the keywords that were spoken about in the Commission. I've been through all these things, basically. Indeed, one topic, as you said, Mikhail, was the subject of the permit for the building, just as Rannar said on the subject that this 0.15 hectares came to the pensioners separately. But I would remind you that there was also a clear feeling in the Commission that this issue was not really the subject of this law. Therefore, we cannot go on with this in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U120	Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U121	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I apologise if my question is perhaps not exactly related to the subject of this draft. But basically, it is. One of your party associates has said that this issue is not so much a matter of taxation, but of morality. I also read from the somewhat changed but still beautiful title of the bill that the purpose of this law is not so much to take away one of the autonomous sources of income from local governments, but to reduce the tax burden on home ownership. That is why I am asking: because Estonia, especially because of our climate, also has other totally unavoidable costs of home ownership, including tax, which alternatives or additional measures to alleviate the tax burden on homeowners were discussed in the Commission? All alternatives are certainly appropriate to be discussed. For example, in the light of the relevant directives of the European Union, it is certainly possible to give a beautiful name to this law, let's say 'the law amending the VAT law, which keeps the College warm'. Was such a possible alternative discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U122	Thank you. Unfortunately, you only have one minute to ask, I have a lot more time to answer. So, first of all, I will mention the reasons why this bill is in this Chamber today. Four reasons. And these four reasons are as follows. First of all, our housing costs are too high. Secondly, a very large part of our housing fund is in private hands. If we weren't in private, we wouldn't have anything to talk about. But we have this figure at 90%. The third reason is that the tax on the land under home has clearly become burdensome. And fourthly, this fact could lead to the disintegration of communities in regions of immense value. These are four very clear reasons. The second part of the question was whether the Commission discussed possible other tax incentives that would contribute to reducing the tax burden on Estonian residents. The first half was whether a land tax exemption would be necessary at all. As far as the other half of this question is concerned, I will answer: yes, of course! Today we are going to discuss, for example, the law amending the Income Tax Act. In 2015, income tax will fall from 21% to 20%, which is one example. I believe that such examples can certainly be given in the future, because the Committee on Monetary Affairs is working on this in order to change taxes so that they can be clearly identified in people's wallets.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U123	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U124	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. You have stressed several times that you like specific questions. I have a very specific question. You said that you had received the approval of this bill from both the homeowners' association and the apartment owners' association. It is very nice and commendable that you asked them for their assessment, and of course it is not surprising that you got their approval. If there's any savings, that's what we all want. But here's my question. When you increased VAT by 2% two years ago, which increased both the cost of building homes and the price of electricity, water and fuel, did you ask these very associations whether they were in favour of it? And when you asked, what did they say?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U125	Good colleague! Look, what an interesting question you have! You confirm that you are speaking specifically, but in fact you are not speaking specifically. You could have asked me something else that didn't concern this bill. Good colleague! We'll stick to this bill! During the procedure on this draft, we have never talked about the issues that you have raised at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U126	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U127	I may have a too specific question again. I understand there was an idea here that the percentage of personal income tax allocated to municipalities could be 11.724. The Prime Minister has come up with this. I have another question. The Ministry of Finance currently does not know what the costs of calculating a possible change in the proportion of personal income tax distribution are. As far as I can quickly calculate and use some logic, it seems to me that the proposed way of compensating those municipalities that have not built high and whose income has fallen since 2001 when the last regular land valuation was. With this approach we increase peripheralization. Do you think I'm right?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U128	Good fellows! I'm declaring recess. The sitting will be resumed at 12.59 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U129	Thank you, my good fellow official, for bringing this important nuance to your attention. At the same time, I would also like to thank our predecessors in the various configurations who have made a very good law on home and working arrangements. Paragraph 64 (2) of the judgment states that the sitting will not be closed until the action pending has been completed. Operations in progress in parentheses have also been mentioned, including 'or any other operation'. So we can carry out this vote nicely. No further questions? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 37 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Good waitress! Thank you for today's presentation and answers. Thank you, fellows, and thank you. Today's trial is over. We will continue the debate on this topic next week. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U130	That's a good question. This is certainly an interesting debate and we could discuss it further in the Commission. It is certainly not enough to give you one minute to ask a question and perhaps a higher level of preparation for a more thorough debate, but we could certainly discuss this issue. We will come back to this issue in the Commission and think about it. The Prime Minister also said that this is one possibility that it is not clearly locked. But what's locked is that the coalition has clearly said: compensation comes, and comes constant. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U131	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U132	Good fellows! Break's over. We are voting on the IRL proposal to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us begin the preparation of this vote. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I have a question for the waitress. If you have read.. and you have probably read the explanatory memorandum to the Tallinn City Government's decision yesterday, there are interesting revelations. It is the abolition of land tax for homeowners and the increase of the remaining land tax, and the result is a monetary victory. Harku municipality, for example, certainly applied the same scheme. But have you also discussed the possibility that you will lose land tax and some municipalities will go the same way? On the one hand, they will receive compensation, on the other hand, they will raise the remaining land to a maximum tax, and then their monetary gain will be much greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U134	Thank you, my good colleague. I was waiting for you to come to Tallinn. I didn't touch it on purpose until you started asking me. You know, I'm telling you honestly, I don't understand what you really want, the good Centre Party. Do you want to exempt people from land tax in Estonian society or do you not want to? Why am I asking that? Because this was already mentioned at first reading as the representative of the initiators of the Urmas Reinsalu draft. I'll just bring you some quotes here. On 27 March 2008, Savisaar has titled 'The rise in land tax affects only people in the workforce'. According to the Mayor of Tallinn, Edgar Savisaar, the increase in land tax affects people in the workforce, the impact on pensioners is minimal. According to him, people must show solidarity and support each other in building waterworks and sewerage by paying land tax. Second quote from 2009. The title is: 'Savisar: the land tax remains. ' And then, 'The mayor of Tallinn, Edgar Savisaar, confirmed that he didn't intend to lose the land tax and that most of the Tallinns would understand the need for it. 'Every tax reduction or abolition weakens our country. In the case of any tax reduction, we must also ask which public service we will then abandon or which other tax we will receive for this service,' said Savisaar at the online press conference today. According to Savisaar, a good majority of the Tallinns have now understood the need for land tax and the city has no problem receiving it. 'The Tallinians also know that the rise in the land tax is aimed at the construction of the sewerage in the capital, and these works are going as planned for us,' he noted. ' Finally, Savisaar wanted to draw attention once again to the fact that all the stories and the collection of signatures were in favour of the abolition of land tax in 2009 is primarily a populist campaign, and he does not see any real victory in it for the inhabitants. That's what Savisaar said in 2009. In 2010, news was published entitled Savisaar: Harku can bring back land tax later. It says, 'I would like to see this decision made,' commented the Mayor of Tallinn, Edgar Savisaar, on the plan of Harku municipality to lose its inhabitants' land tax and said that it could still be brought back later. 'I called out to one of the ambassadors there yesterday, who assured me that it was the initiative of a patriotic parish elder before the elections came,' he said on the air of Kuku's radio, 'City Hour'. Savisaar added that it would not be excluded that a new correction would be made in the area six months after the elections and that land tax would be brought back. 'I don't think Harku's parish has enough money to give up one tax that people will suffer,' said the mayor. ' I would say that intimidation has somehow been apologizing, but it seems to me that way! One of your directions. That's my personal opinion. What you have now done in Tallinn is, on the one hand, very good. Really, I say sincerely: it is very good. It doesn't matter to me who gets the honor of bailing out the land tax. Take all the credit if you do this thing for good, for Christ's sake! The IRL and Reform Party are pleased that thanks to this bill we have in the hall, the Tallinn City Government has started to move and is planning to free people from land tax. I believe that if we hadn't brought this bill to the hall, there wouldn't have been such moves. I'm still not sure you're going to finish this. But if you go very well! Now on the other side: 2.5% tax increase for the rest of the country. But why are you doing this? Yes, you are legally entitled to raise the land tax to 2.5%, but you have been assured that in 2013 you will be compensated for the current income that will disappear. Why are you doing this? Do you want to get the entrepreneurs out of Tallinn? Maybe that's your goal. After all, the sales tax that you have imposed bears, to some extent, this objective as well. Or do you have other goals? I'm afraid I don't know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U135	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U136	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I already drew attention to the involvement of local authorities, or rather not to the involvement of local authorities in the procedure for this draft. I understand that on Monday this week you met with the municipalities and received an appeal from the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments, one of which you are addressed to, Mr Sester. I think they made a very good proposal: they would like to see a full analysis of the costs of implementing the law, which also highlights the reduction of the revenue base by municipality. It's very important. Can you assure me right now that you have this analysis now? And would an increase in the share of income tax to 11.72% completely compensate for the abolition of land tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U137	I really do have that letter. As far as compensation is concerned, that's what I've been talking about, but I'm going to go over it. Repeating is the mother of wisdom. I repeat the words of the Prime Minister, which he said only yesterday in this very briefing. He suggested that we should not punish those local authorities who have already lost their tax on the land of their home country. We certainly should not reward those local authorities who have raised the land tax to 2.5%, or the maximum rate, and accordingly have charged the land tax. What's the point of that statement? In my opinion, the state is counting on the basis of the costs covered by the land tax in Estonia as a whole. I understood from the Prime Minister that the general compensation is determined on the basis of this general number, and I believe that I understood him correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U138	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U139	Good waitress! Firstly, I express my frustration that you could not answer my previous question. The Committee on Finance has not been able to analyse sufficiently the figures in the explanatory memorandum. My second question is as follows. If the old draft was in the process, it was strange to read that 90% of Estonians are homeowners. There was no explanation for this argument. At least this error has been corrected in the new draft law that romantic language has been abandoned, but on page 1 of the explanatory memorandum it is stated that almost 90% of the housing fund is privately owned in Estonia. Surely, romantic argument and reality are not equal things. Do you agree that the populist dating of the facts that this whole bill procedure has been sent is unmanly and deplorable?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U140	This question actually falls within the remit of non-constructive questions. First of all, it's the first half. I believe I have answered all the questions today, including your questions. Your question also included what the overall percentage increase is. I said no. Secondly, you asked if I would agree. I say no, I don't agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U141	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The draft proposed at first reading by the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance was strongly criticised for its weaknesses. It was criticised in this Chamber and also in the mass media. And the most important was the Minister's written reply to us. Hence my question: is the draft tabled today no longer in conflict? In some ways, the Minister of Finance also adopted the first draft. Are the positions of the drafters and the Ministry of Finance the same and the same as no problems at this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U143	Thank you, Eldar! A very substantive question and it is a pleasure to answer that question. First of all, however, I would point out that I think the letter from the Minister of Finance was not critical, but constructive. I think there's a little difference. He drew attention to certain things, but he was very supportive. The Government of the Republic expressed its support for this draft, but it drew attention to some points that could certainly be improved. Now the second part of the question: have we now improved the bill? Is this bill at such a level that it is ready to be adopted as a law? Does it take into account the comments that the Ministry of Finance wrote? Yes, it is! Yes! From this same title, then the dense and diffuse issues, which were raised by the Ministry of Finance as a question and which were suggested to be clarified, then this implementing provision, how the law will apply, and a number of other questions that the Ministry sent in the letter. They have all found a beautiful solution, and in this sense I must take advantage of this opportunity here to actually thank several ministries. The Ministry of Finance itself has done a very strong job. Having raised a number of issues constructively, they have helped us to resolve these issues. Similarly, the Ministry of the Interior, the Tax and Customs Board and their employees have done a lot of work on administration issues, starting from the cost of the operation, but also on how this activity will work in the first place. There's a lot of parties here. I'm not talking about our officials whose day-to-day work, of course. In fact, very good work has been done! It hasn't been like this coming to you after half an hour's work. It's been hours and hours' work. The production that is on the tables today has a clear objective: the homeowners of the Republic of Estonia should receive land tax exemption from 0.15 hectares for dense settlements after the adoption of the draft law and 2 hectares for diffuse settlements.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U144	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U145	Thank you, Mr President. I have a purely procedural question, which, apart from me, concerns some of my colleagues. While I'm asking a question, it'll be 1:00, and that means the hearing should be closed. Are we going to carry out this vote, however, even though the sitting is already closed and this would be contrary to our rules of procedure, or are we going to close the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to thank you for addressing such a grateful issue as reducing the cost of homeowners. There has been a great deal of talk here about justice and injustice, about how unfair this tax is to those people whose lot is very large. But I ask: how unfair is it to people who do not have to pay land tax at all? For example, 70% of apartment owners and 25% of homeowners do not have to pay land tax at all. At the same time, we know that in Tallinn, nearly 10% of the real estate is already in the hands of foreigners, and in many cases it is also their home. Will the Estonian taxpayer maintain their infrastructure? I think that the best thing to do is to support the draft that we have delivered today and which proposes reducing the VAT levied on heat by homeowners. Unlike income tax, not all are recipients! It would affect everyone's wallet.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U147	I did not quite understand the question, because in the second half of the series of sentences you praised your draft, which you handed over today, in the first half of the year, you made it clear, if I understood correctly, how much injustice will come to those who do not pay the land tax now. And now there's more people like that in society. Is it unfair that there will be more people among those who already have land tax exemptions? That is exactly how I understood your question, and I am saying that I do not see any injustice here. You might want to ask your sentence structure if we should start paying for those who already have an exemption today. Our aim, and I believe that your aim, too, is to go and tell your voters that yes, the land tax has been unfair and you want that tax to disappear. If you pass on this message to your constituents, then I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U148	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When we were just discussing the law on the amendment of the Constitution, we learned that it would change 19 other legislative acts and that this was a challenge for us to know. Did you also discuss the legislative amendments to the legislation being discussed in the Commission? For example, this law is unlikely to apply without amending the Population Register Act. How many laws and laws are affected?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U150	This amendment, according to my data, amends one law, this is the Land Tax Act. According to what I know, it doesn't change any other law. That is what I see when I look at the amendments that we have on the table today. There is probably no reason to change any other law. If these reasons arise, we will certainly discuss them either in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or, in the absence of changes to monetary policy, in another committee. So, on the question of whether there are any other laws that are going to be amended, I will answer: we will amend the land tax law and introduce such a good provision that the land tax on the basis of the people's home will be abolished.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U151	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Although the Commission was talking about this for quite a while, I am concerned about the fact that the rent income of homeowners was completely waived when they have rented something out. There was, of course, a reference to difficult administration, but perhaps by amending some other laws, this situation can be improved. If you look at the galleries published yesterday in Delfi about the so-called homes, I dare say that in many cases the rental income may exceed the land tax. From a state point of view, I think it is simply a let-off, if such a thing is ignored and supported by a person who receives a high rental income. Would it not be possible for such rental income to be taken into account in the exemption or non-exemption of land tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U153	Good Kalev, that's a good question! We really discussed this in the Commission; you were there yourself. It was discussed why this could be considered and why it might not be taken into account. Finally, the Commission maintained its position to withdraw rental and rental income from the draft. The reason was that, if this requirement were imposed, verification of its compliance could not be ensured. Administratively, this would be a rather out of hand task. And the second reason that was raised in the Commission is, in my view, very clear: this provision would unduly and disproportionately restrict the right of homeowners to a tax credit for renting out a room, for example. For example, if a Tartu pensioner rents a room for a student for the winter and if that rental or rental clause were included in the law, he would automatically lose the opportunity to get off the land tax, although he himself only lives in one room. That's why it's very clear that if you want to get a land tax exemption, you have to live at the same time. And if you do not live there and receive rental or rental income, the exemption is not provided for because one of the four conditions that I previously read to you has not been met.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U154	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question arises from the amendments and concerns § 11 of the Land Tax Act. According to the draft, four factors are required to be present simultaneously in order to benefit from the land tax exemption. I'm not going to read these four facts, you know them very well by heart. My question concerns the land to be exempted from the land tax under point 2 must be reserved for residential land. But we have a lot of households where only a certain percentage of the land is occupied by residential land. I don't know how many there are in Estonia today, but there are, and you probably know the number of percentage numbers. I would like to mention, for example, self-employed people, small private limited companies, people run entrepreneurship in their own home, in their own homes, and they have 85% of the land used as residential land and 15% as commercial land. According to this, they have also paid taxes. Doesn't that law apply to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U156	Thank you, good question! It's all very clearly set out. There was a discussion once about perhaps extending it to all land units. It was suggested that we use the formulation of 'the land under the house'. The initiators of the draft act, however, have a very clear view that the tax-free should still only be housing land or the outcrop of the land in which the land is profitable. And if there are any percentages there, there will still be relief. Suppose you have 85% of residential and 15% of commercial land, then you get exemption from this residential property. This is now a very clear position.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I still have the same question for you. I will still not leave this tax administration alone. As a representative of the former executive, I am always concerned when the law is a bit confusing. You told me a number of 32,000 euros. I understand that these are the costs of reorganizing the database, etc. Here in this legislative text, the first paragraph speaks of 'building', but there is no reference to any other law defining what this 'building' is in the sense of this law. This may include, for example, my registration in the population register, the land on the register, or a large television box. In fact, somebody has to start checking it, so it's a local government official or tax official, and there's costs involved. Why don't you define this building clearly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U158	I would like to clarify first, perhaps I heard wrong, did you mention EUR 2 000? Ah, 32,000 then we're talking about the right number. But it is possible to define the 'building' very clearly: the data in the land register indicate whether or not it is a building. And you can see from the population register whether a person lives there or not. If anyone wants to be malicious, then the supervisory bodies, and I believe that the local government must also monitor it. The conditions under which the land tax exemption is actually granted are very clear here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U159	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U160	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U161	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Today's bill provokes such behaviour that one of the spouses remains registered in the population register in the city apartment, while the other writes in a cottage or other cottage. And that's how one home becomes two and gets two land tax exemptions. People cannot be blamed for such behavior if it is economical and, unfortunately, legal. But it messes up the picture of where our people really live and where they're formally written in. As initiators, have you also considered the possible negative second-round effect of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U162	Don't go along with the provocations! There's no point in going along with the provocations! I think that if, for example, in some local government, much more birth grant is paid than in other local governments, it is unlikely that all pregnant women will be allowed to sign up to this local government. I don't want to believe it! I don't see a problem as big as you expect.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U163	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I appreciate your courage to answer our questions here. I read in the draft explanatory memorandum that the compensation for land tax losses amounts to EUR 17 million. But I certainly share the view that the amounts associated with the tax exemption for homeland are distributed in a territorially uneven manner, and this also requires a compensatory measure that is proportionate to the reduction and distribution of the income base. But my question concerns administration costs. How big are they anyway? In this regard, it is particularly important what organisational solutions are, how the practical arrangements for tax exemptions are designed. I think it is very important that this is clear to local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U165	It's a two-part question again. But I thank all of you for asking constructive questions. After all, our aim here in this Chamber is to understand exactly what we are going to vote on today, and that is why I have emphasised one, two and three things several times. So that's not a problem. In the implementation of the sitting, we have been essentially dealing for an hour with things that I didn't understand everything about, but that doesn't bother me from answering you thoroughly right now. I do not want to answer simply by saying 'yes', so that this item will not be exhausted at all quickly. But your question was about administration. I think if we adopt this law, the Tax and Customs Board will be able to develop a clear system of tasks. When we spoke to the Tax and Customs Board in the working group, we understood what that means in reality. These are certain IT solutions, with EUR 32000 earmarked for real implementation. I imagine there's nothing insurmountable there. I am not a specialist in this field, but, as we know today, Estonia is an e-state and we actually have all the data. From the Detention Register, we learn about the size of the land that people have in their hands, from the Population Register we find out where people live, so that with certain filters it is possible to do all this. I assume that these are information technology solutions that must simply be introduced, and this should be possible for this amount. There is also a question here as to why the draft must be dealt with so quickly. There are several reasons for this. One reason is that IT solutions need to be developed. If we had started working on the draft at the same time in 2012, this would not have been the case, let alone the expectation that local authorities have. So I believe it is a good thing that we are talking about this today and that we are giving the opportunity to implement the law in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U166	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U167	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Sester! Savisaar is often accused of being distracted. Unfortunately, it also happened to you because Savisaar himself was not here. But I will repeat my question. Let's not talk about the city of Tallinn, my question was that if some X government with one hand loses the land tax on homeowners and with the other hand raises the tax on the rest of the land, it can win a monetary victory. You will also grant compensation to this municipality. Did you discuss what would happen if a municipality took your compensation with one hand and with the other hand raised the tax rate for the rest of the land to a maximum?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U168	Mrs. Yana Toom! I have spoken very little about the city of Tallinn today. I'm sure everyone in the hall can say that. Although we do not know what is little and what is much, I think that the word 'Tallinn' has been through my sentences very rarely in my dissecting the whole subject today. So I certainly disagree with this accusation. I would like to talk a lot more about Tallinn, because the topics that relate to Tallinn, especially different tax policies, are also close to my heart. But let's not touch it if that's what you want! We are talking about a topic that was contained in the second half of the question, i.e. whether the Commission discussed the fact that some municipalities are raising other taxes, for example Tallinn is currently raising 2.5% of the tax on land outside this area. No, we did not discuss this in detail in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U169	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U170	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In the explanatory memorandum, you make it very clear that in Estonia there has been an increase in forced housing expenditure per household member and this law is intended to reduce these costs. It is stated that Statistics Estonia estimates that the cost of housing is higher than in the pre-masusian period. Of course, these expenditures have increased, after all, you raised VAT a great deal during the recession. It is as if you want to reduce household housing costs by cutting the door to a wall where the door is already available. This door is either the introduction of VAT specialties or the reduction of VAT as an option. Have you considered other ways of reducing housing expenditure? If so, what are the alternatives that could help people?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U171	Thanks! This is a very good question in itself and a political debate on how to reduce people's home expenses would like to have hours if possible. IRL also had one of the clear goals of reducing home expenses in Riigikogu elections. This bill is one of the steps on this road. There are a number of other topics up here that relate, for example, to the insulation of houses and to energy saving in general. We are working on these issues now, and we want to continue to do so in the future. The greatest possible restraint of home-related costs is essential. Here are also examples of how much additional money could be left in people's hands when they heat their houses. The state has launched appropriate measures, such as building insulation programmes through KredEx. So the Government of the Republic is working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U172	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Waitress! However, with all due respect to your identity, I must admit that you did not answer my previous question. Instead, you tried to start reading the Prime Minister's thoughts and I did not think it was the most correct one. Let me remind you that I actually asked you about the amount of costs needed to implement the law and their analysis. Have they been done and have you been trying to point out a reduction in the revenue base across municipalities? I understand that this 16.6 million euros is one figure, the increase in income tax is another. Are these amounts still broken down by municipality in such a way that everyone gets their expenses covered, not so that higher-income municipalities get more money out of that tax bag?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U174	I don't understand, you don't understand, and I don't understand what you don't understand. You asked me about administration first. I responded very clearly to the costs of administration and how they were planned. Now, for the second time, you are asking whether an analysis has been made of how much the local government will receive today. The point of this issue, as I understand it, is that it should be based on the introduction of compensatory mechanisms. Once again, I do not have to rely on it! The current direction is that it is not about whether one city, Tallinn, for example, I apologise for calling that name again! Some, I don't know, maybe 50 or 30% of the sum that makes six decimal points, and 9 million were probably housing expenses in the context of this bill, and this number has gone through, and Harku, for example, where there is no land tax at all, gets nothing. The current vision is not about rewarding one and punishing the other, but about the overall level of the local authorities on the basis of the total amount of the land tax. This will be taken as a basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U175	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'll come back to the last question if I want to. Look, if it was a law entitled 'Law amending § 1 of the Land Tax Act', I would agree with you and ask no questions. Yes, the lack of construction permits that have been mentioned, the lack of authorizations will probably not be resolved by this law. However, the title of this law is the Land Tax Act amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax. Homeowner! But this law also exempts a person who, in the eyes of the law, is not a homeowner because he has not obtained a permit for use or construction of a particular building. My question is: how could we comment in such a situation that we refuse to be able to solve this problem by means of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U177	Thank you, good Mikhail! No, we're not refusing to settle this. We currently have four very clear conditions under which land tax can be exempted. I'll go over it again if you want. If these four conditions are met, land tax exemptions can be obtained. There's no need for a separate application. Honestly, I don't see a problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U178	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I know a lot of homeowners. There are very different people among them, including my constituents, and I am also homeowner. I believe, however, that if the state has given me the opportunity to realise my mental and physical potential in a way that allows me to have a home, then I will also support the country with a tax. But that's it. There are a wide range of homeowners. These include, for example, repressed people who were still entitled to the benefit granted by the State in the form of land tax exemptions. If they cannot enjoy this benefit after this law has been passed, will they be compensated for another benefit? Has the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this possibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U180	Good questioner! I don't understand if you really come to this hall without reading the bill at all. Don't do that again! Keep reading the bill, it'll be easier for you to ask smart questions. I quote to you Paragraph 11 (6) of the Land Tax Act, which is amended, which has, by the way, been transposed from the law in force: 'A local government may additionally exempt a person who is repressed and repressed in terms of the occupation regimes of a person who has been repressed in the sense of the Act in respect of the property he owns or the property of a rural municipality. ' I don't know what you're asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U181	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U182	Thanks! There are four conditions under which a person receives an exemption from land tax. I repeat, it would be equally understandable to everyone: it doesn't matter who sold something and who bought something. There are four conditions. The person must be the owner of the land or the user of the land within the meaning of § 10 of the Land Tax Act. The land to be exempt from the land tax must be an outcrop belonging to a residential land or forming part of a land-revenue land. Thirdly, the land to be exempt from the land tax must be situated in the building, and fourthly, in the land to be exempt from the land tax, the owner or user of the land has a permanent residence according to the data recorded in the population register. If a person meets all these conditions, he will receive a land tax exemption.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U183	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U184	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a technical question that once this law is passed, how will it be? Pensioners have had to apply for income tax exemption. In order to be exempted from the land tax, a declaration must also be submitted to the local government to make the will of everyone clear. After the adoption of this law, do all parties concerned have to submit a statement? And if it does, who and how is it supposed to happen to? And if some do not want to do so, they want to support, as some other law has claimed, the Estonian state or local government, they do not submit a statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U185	Viktor Vassilyev has the opportunity to transfer his land tax to the Tallinn city's revenue in 2012, as he made it clear that he would like to pay the land tax. Since in 2012 the city of Tallinn is exempting from land tax on the basis of a declaration, it could make a statement that the corresponding amount would be transferred to the city's income. But now for your question. Once the bill on this table enters into force, it is no longer necessary to write a statement. The state states very clearly: 1500 m2 for dense settlements and 2 ha for diffuse settlements is exempt and there is no need for any separate procedural measures, such as an application. I'll describe how it might look, I don't know if that's exactly what's gonna happen. I assume that if you have less than 1500 m2 of land when this law enters into force in 2013, you will most likely not receive a tax notification or a tax notification that the land tax will be 0 kroons. If you have more than 1,500 m2 of land in a densely populated area, it is likely that you will receive a normal tax notice, which has been provided by information technology, only now, with an estimate that your land, for example, is 1800 m2, of which 1500 m2 is exempt from land tax and, for example, for 300 m2 your country tax is this. I do not know whether it will be exactly that way in terms of information technology, that is what time will show, but the answer to your question is: there really is no need to submit separate statements. Well, I'm glad you asked me that, so I can explain it from this speaker, and it's also in the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U186	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U187	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Respect the waitress! I, too, must thank you for not answering my previous question exhaustively. My second question concerns the title of the bill. In the introductory speech, you said that the expression "homeowners exempting land tax" was additional information. In fact, it also contains some disinformation, as the land tax exemption is obtained in the amount of 1500 m2 if the land under home is in a city or other densely populated area, or in the amount of 2 ha if it is elsewhere. Should we not change our rhetoric and add a fifth to these four conditions at the same time that land tax exemptions will be granted if there are 1,500 m2 of land in the city or 2 ha of land?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U188	Good colleague! Sounds like I'm talking to deaf ears. The more I say, the more I say, the more I think at least, the more people ask. I don't get it! I am already thinking that perhaps we should begin to say 'no' and 'yes': that this was not discussed in the Commission, and that is the answer. Maybe an hour ago we could have started the calls you're here, I'm looking at, logged in a lot. But my answer is that I think it is very clear now: 1500 m2 for dense settlements, 2 ha for diffuse settlements. And four conditions are very clearly defined. I believe that this information and the will that politicians have expressed in the process of dealing with this draft speak for themselves. I think it's all very nicely and directly written here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U189	Thank you, good manager. I apologise to the waitress for not being able to formulate the previous question very clearly. This time I'm trying to be precise and concrete. IRL recently sold a property belonging to a party in the centre of Tallinn. It was acquired by a foreign citizen. If this foreigner is registered in that house, will he be released from the land tax as well? And when released, I ask: is this fair to Estonian citizens and other taxpayers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U190	A procedural question, Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U191	Thank you! I'm forced to intervene. The waitress was obviously hurting the questioner here. Since the amendment on which the question was raised is made by the Commission, it is still extremely impertinent when the Commission rapporteur says that we have not discussed it in the Commission. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U192	Stop-stop-stop! Now you're confusing something!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U193	Good waitress, it was a procedural question for the manager. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U194	Got it. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U195	But, good waitress, I must apologize to you now. You can stay in the Riigikogu Chair, but you can rest for a moment, because an important document has been handed over to me that has been written on it to the board of the Riigikogu. And the content is as follows: I would like to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Signed by Toomas Tõniste, vice-president of the IRL Group. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. A procedural question, Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-09_U196	Ten minutes before the vote, please.
