ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session on Tuesday of the seventh working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U2	First, we will hear the oath of office of a member of the Riigikogu. Due to the end of the term of office of member of the Riigikogu Peeter Kreitzberg, his death, an alternate member of the Riigikogu is Mart Meri. I beg you, Mart Meri, to take the oath of office in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U3	Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Thinking about Peter here and now, I'm taking a vow of office. By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I will submit a draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act to the Riigikogu's proceedings. The draft law deals with how it would make more sense to organise the influence of start-up specialist doctors, including family doctors, so that they would choose Estonia as a job or even a specific area where qualified doctors have been difficult to find. It also amends the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act by ensuring that the possibilities of seeking employment for those seeking employment remain the same as they have been since 2007 when, in parallel with the provisions of the Act, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund provided labour market services and paid labour market subsidies under the framework programme co-financed by the European Social Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U6	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U7	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 19 members of the Central Party Group, I will refer an inquiry to Mr Siim Valmar Kiisler, Regional Minister. The inquiry concerns the completion of the land reform. Due to the 2010 review of the utilisation and preservation of state assets, the National Audit Office draws attention to rural issues of rural municipalities and cities, whose resolution is entangled behind the completion of the land reform. In the process of completing the land reform, the focus will be on clarifying the relationship between land ownership and municipalisation. The National Audit Office has found that the principles of establishing the state reserve of land are still not transparent to the local governments. In fact, local governments have the impression that the country's land reserve will be formed at random. The aim is to complete the sales plan and increase public revenue. The municipalities and cities would not be opposed to the land being held by the state if the state were to explain why the land was to be held by the state. The Land Board confirms that it is guided by the principles of the formation of a state reserve, which is not a public document, when applying for land ownership. We have seven questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U8	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U9	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I am extremely pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the National Family Benefits Act. In fact, the Central Party Group will submit a draft to the Riigikogu procedure to remove one of the cuts that were adopted quite quickly in 2009 in connection with the so-called Prime Minister's vote of confidence. I would remind you that since 2009, we do not have one family allowance that was quite accustomed to, and which helped parents to ease them slightly in the face of costs at the beginning of the school year. Perhaps, with your generous help, we would like to restore the school allowance granted to all children from the age of 7 to the age of 16 and, if the child continues his or her studies, to the time of his or her studies, after receiving data from the Estonian Education Information System. The school allowance is paid at three times the rate of child benefit at the beginning of the school year. Looking also at s. Around 1 September, there were tables in the newspapers, and it is clear that every parent has a very high cost of attending school for children. This support is only one way in which the State can mitigate these costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U10	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on the adoption of the drafts in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. If the inquiry complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall submit it to the addressee without delay. Now let's get to the messages. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 9 November: Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questions of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Culture Rein Lang and the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the presence check. Currently 90 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, none 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U11	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let's start working on today's item. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, member of the Riigikogu, to sit as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U12	Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group has submitted a draft law amending the law. Its purpose is to restore the local government's revenue base at the pre-cutting level, i.e. 2008. We understand very well that restoring this level in one year can be more difficult than cutting the revenue base in one year. We therefore foresee that it could be divided into two years, i.e. 2012 and 2013. If before the cutbacks, 11.93% of the personal income tax was passed on to local governments, then now 11.4%. In other words, in addition to the fall in tax revenues, municipal income from income tax was reduced by a further 4,7%. In our opinion, this percentage could be 11.67 in 2012, and in 2013 it could be 11.93, which would be the same good old level. We have also mentioned in the draft explanatory memorandum that we believe that the equalisation fund should also be increased proportionately, because otherwise only the more prosperous municipalities - those who collect more income tax and where more earners live - would benefit from this bill, but would lose those municipalities where people's service and employment are smaller. We do not believe that this bill should in any way be linked to any increase in income tax resulting from the tax exemption on housing land; this compensation should be added to this increase. As far as the effects and costs of the law are concerned, this proposal does not affect the balance of the budget, but the adoption of the law would mean that the state budget would receive less 15,4% income tax in 2012 and 32,4% less in 2013. As I said, this does not affect the budgetary position. This is a conservative approach, but an optimistic approach is that it has a positive effect. In other words, because the budget reduces the share of income tax, it is not necessary to directly increase the deficit of the state budget to be dealt with if we reduce expenditure, for example. It can also be expected that municipalities will use this money in part to provide better services than they would if they did not receive it, i.e. the costs associated with it will increase. But some part of this money will also go to the local governments to borrow less next year. According to this logic, it would rather have a positive impact on the balance of the state budget. Why are we filing this bill? There are several reasons. One reason is that we think this is fair, because this cut was still meant to be a temporary measure and could be treated as such. It is certainly reasonable that municipalities know for a little time in advance whether and when their income base might change. The cuts were made very suddenly, but as far as the recovery of the funds is concerned, I think it makes sense to provide information to the municipalities. Moreover, in the Riigikogu, we ourselves have imposed an obligation on them by law that they must plan their income and expenses. It is currently quite complex because it is not known exactly what will happen with compensation for land tax, and it is not known what form the Equalisation Fund will be restored and what form the income tax will be recovered. It's the same with road money. So I think it makes sense to make financial planning easier for municipalities, to give them advance notice of changes within a reasonable time and also to give them legal guarantees of what their revenues are, so that they can also adequately plan their costs. In addition, there is currently a very practical need to increase the income of local governments. There are a lot of municipalities that can't handle it. It's not because they borrowed so much or because they can't manage. They haven't borrowed and can manage, but the revenue base is just so small and the responsibilities are so great. A number of non-political institutions have also pointed out this issue: Chancellor of Justice, National Audit Office, President. In fact, I think that this issue has been quite thoroughly resolved by the various institutions, and this problem has been raised. There is certainly one issue of administrative reform, but it is clear that administrative reform will not save municipalities in 2012 and 2013. People still have to get services: roads need to be pushed open, children need to be put in kindergarten. It is not so much a cost that a country can make when there is money, and it is not to do when there is no money, but it is part of the governance of our country, it is a constitutional part and it should be autonomous. There are certainly quite a few doubts about autonomy. I believe that our task in the Riigikogu is to ensure that all state institutions have the capacity to carry out their tasks. That would be the first step in this direction. In addition, these issues, which often give rise to more emotions in this Chamber, such as the use of euro money and CO2 quota money. This is very closely linked to the way municipalities manage. Much of the users of euro and CO2 quota money are municipalities and their self-financing capacity is rather limited. It may be said that this is not important in the case of the sale of CO2 quotas, but the reality is that, given the time when the prices of the constructions at that time have been taken and what construction prices have now done, and given that this difference must be covered by all the local authorities, I can predict here today, a little pessimisticly, that there will be a huge problem for many local authorities, which may end up being unable to take advantage of this money. So this is not just a matter for the local authorities, it is, in fact, a concern for the whole country. It has been said by the media that coalition politicians have said that the revenue of local governments could increase by around 8% next year. Several people have asked me if what really happened now is that the coalition is willing to raise that percentage. I've said I don't know until my first reading is over. I hope that this is not the intention of this potential increase in revenue calculated by the Ministry of Finance to the budget, which is accompanied by an optimistic view of our future economic growth, but the coalition really has the idea that local government revenue should be increased. I hope that today's vote will show this. I understand the practical aspects of this whole thing pretty well. It's awfully disturbing, especially here on Toompea and watching downtown, one municipality of Tallinn. Every time you talk about local governments and talk about small incomes and local governments not being able to manage, you bring the capital and talk about how the capital makes television. That is the main argument in this whole debate. I am not going to judge whether Tallinn's television is reasonable or not, but I can tell you that most Estonians do not live in Tallinn. I do not think it is right to punish all the other municipalities because we have a different opinion on whether one municipality makes use of its money in a rational way, either for political reasons or for justified reasons. This certainly cannot become the main argument in this debate. The municipality is free to spend money like this. The citizens of the city, many of whom are critics, can give their opinion on this in local elections. I think this case should not be the reason to fear the restoration of the local governments' revenue base. I dare say that most municipalities are relatively rational about money, at least as well as they can, and they are based on what their opinion on what money should be done. I think this time the Riigikogu has been elected a good composition. Many members of the Riigikogu are directly familiar with the management of local government; some have seen this work very closely, either inside or outside. I believe that among its composition there could be an understanding that the municipality is a part of the country and that the municipality is not a source of cost, but a provider of certain services and that it does so in general reasonably, to be quite broad. I hope that this is also demonstrated by the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U13	Thank you. Now the questions. Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You devoted a significant part of your presentation to talking about Tallinn television. But let's be honest, this heroic struggle against the tax change made by the Minister of Finance, Padar, is a bit like the fight against Tallinn television in the downtown, which was created with the participation of the Soviets. There are certain similarities here. As the opposition moves from the government union, the Social Democrats have undergone certain metamorphosis. Maybe it doesn't concern you personally, but it does concern your party. But my question concerns this claim that the impact of this draft on the public budget balance is zero. Would you please specify, for the sake of regularity and the verbatim, that this effect can only be zero if local governments do not spend this money but channel it into reserves or repayment of loans? Otherwise, the impact will be negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U15	At this point, my good colleague, I must say that I said in my speech that the claim that this effect is zero is one option. In fact, there is one other option, namely that of reducing other costs in the state budget to cover this cost. In this case, it is possible to have a positive impact. The Social Democrats have also tabled their amendment on the budget, where we see a source of coverage for it. Consequently, this effect will be at least zero if it is not even positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U16	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U17	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Listening and looking at the news that comes from the world every day, your bill seems relatively optimistic. Even the Minister of Finance, defending the budget in front of the Riigikogu, mentioned that the state budget for next year is perhaps a bit optimistic. What gives you the optimism to believe that we will really reach 2008 levels in real numbers and beyond? Perhaps even more cuts will have to be made when the world's economic growth is getting darker.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U18	I share, and I have already shared, the opinion of the Minister for Finance that the budget for next year is perhaps a little optimistic. Let me be clear: we are not talking about local government revenue reaching the 2008 level, but about how much tax is allocated to municipalities to reach the 2008 level, which was 11,93%. It is clear that we are not so optimistic that we think that the municipal revenues will reach the level that was in 2008. This will not happen in 2012 or 2013. It doesn't seem realistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U19	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I have a question about these percentages. You have foreseen in the draft that the tax rate will rise from 11.4% to 11.93% over the next two years. Is this related to some kind of analysis, or are you just based on the fact that it's ever been 11,93%? Is it related to some kind of analysis that you specifically want to reach this percentage, but not, for example, 11.95% or even 12%? Maybe you'll be nice and give me a heads-up on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U21	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U22	We thoroughly analyzed the recent history and came to the conclusion that this is the highest percentage that has been so far. That's the pre-cut percentage. The purpose of this bill is to bring the income tax rate received by municipalities to the same level as before the cuts. We are not suggesting that we try to solve all the problems relating to the financing of local governments. Nor are we trying to clarify with this draft what tasks are within the competence of the municipality and what competences are within the competence of the state. This can be seen as a first aid or a lifeline tossed to the current municipalities. This is certainly not a structural solution to the problem, but it is necessary for municipalities to cope in any way in 2012 and 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U23	Thank you very much. We all know that this question arises over and over again, that among all the municipalities we have a "state" that plays the country with all its regals. I'm not asking at all provocatively, but rather out of curiosity. You mentioned here the fine-tuning fund as such an equalizing instrument. Quite broadly, without numbers, how do you feel about this project, whether Tallinn's income increases significantly, slightly or in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U24	This draft does not deal with Tallinn as a municipality located outside Estonia, i.e. it is exactly the same municipality as everyone else. The income tax rate received by Tallinn will also rise to the same level as it was in 2008. We do not want to give presents to Tallinn, nor do we want to punish him.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U25	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Government of the Republic and the Minister of Finance have also given their opinion on this draft. In its letter, it argues that the increase in income tax, which is faster than inflation, has increased the capacity of municipalities to carry out their tasks. Good waitress! Please inform me! Can you tell us what these tasks are when the capacity of local governments has increased over the last three or four years?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U27	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U28	I must acknowledge my ignorance here, because I do not know these tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your draft could be supported if we had certainty or the knowledge that we have come out of the economic crisis and the world economy is on the rise again. It is recalled that the percentage of income tax received by local governments was reduced in response to the economic crisis that hit the global economy and our country as well. What are the forecasts on which you can claim that there is a certainty that we have come out of the crisis and that we can make such bold decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U30	As I have mentioned many times, I do not have this fortress, rather I have a deep doubt about it. However, as I mentioned in the speech, we should not treat the municipal income base as a cost from the state budget that can be spent when there is money and that is not done when there is little money. It is not a gift to anyone; it is real money to be able to provide a part of the state's services, those services which are left to the local authorities. Sometimes it seems as if the recession only affects the state budget and its revenues. No, it affects local authorities exactly the same way. If a new recession follows, it will be even more devastating for local authorities, their financial capacity will be further reduced. I think that, in this light, on the contrary, we should not have the suspicion that this money is needed there, but we should have the confidence that local governments will otherwise not be able to cope unless we recover funds for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U31	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U32	Dear waitress, Here's the question. You spoke in your report, like some kind of miracle weapon or money that comes out of nothing, doesn't change into anything and doesn't have any impact on the budget. You must have confused the percentages and the sums. In fact, the impact of this bill will be EUR 15,4 million next year, not 15,4%, and EUR 32.4 million next year. But there was a cryptic indication that you had a proposal on how to compensate for it. Would you open up that proposal, please? I suspect maybe it's your progressive income tax again. Then you've built a logic error in it. Now, try to rake it out yourself and answer me if it's a step-by-step tax that you're thinking about or what you're referring to or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U33	We can then discuss whether this is progressive income tax and how it affects the part that goes to local governments. But as far as our proposal is concerned, we have a complex proposal that has a cost side and a revenue side and that is balanced. This is mentioned among the amendments to the draft state budget. I can assure you that one of the sources of our complex amendment is a step-by-step tax you love too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U34	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U35	Thank you. Good waitress! In your answer to Mr Sõerdi's question, you made it very clear that you do not share optimism about the forecasts for world growth. This is very welcome. Are you an exception to the Social Democrats? Perhaps there is a gap in your party, do you have those who are more pessimistic and those who are more optimistic, and these optimists have sent you here with this bill, the so-called tank? How do you figure that out?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U36	There are different opinions in all political groups; the Social Democratic Party Group is no exception in this regard in the Riigikogu. But as for whether this bill has anything to do with the prevailing optimism, I will explain it one more time. We do not foresee that the restoration of the income base of local governments should be dependent on how well taxes are received by the state. That is a matter of principle. If the state receives less taxes, it will be more difficult for it to cover its costs. The same applies to local governments. So on the contrary, rather because the world economy is experiencing difficult times and optimism may not be too much of a reason, this bill needs to be dealt with and this percentage change should be introduced. It is clear that if the economy does not grow or even fall, it is difficult to foresee that the revenue of local governments will grow in some form. These services, which must be provided by municipalities, will remain the same and the difficulty associated with the provision of these services will remain the same and will certainly not be smaller in the coming years, given the different inflation factors. The biggest influence on municipalities has been the increase in heat prices, which has been very drastic in recent times. Given that the municipalities have a very large number of buildings that need to be heated, I can assure you that this is a huge additional burden for the local governments' budgets compared to today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U37	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! The coalition has begun to question whether there will be any economic growth in Estonia next year. Can we say that the state budget has been misassembled? On what basis, then, is it possible that the share of income tax received by local authorities should increase by 8% next year? Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U39	I think that this is an appropriate question during the state budget procedure to clarify exactly where these percentages come from and whether they are optimistic or not. In any case, it seems to me that at least the 8% that we are talking about is simply foreseen in a future vision that, let us be honest, does not give the municipalities any real guarantee that their revenues could actually increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U40	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U41	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I will come back once again to the subject that was initiated by Taavi Rõivas, namely, on the costs and benefits of implementing the law. You say in your draft explanatory memorandum that next year the costs will be EUR 15,4 million and EUR 32.4 million in 2013. You justify that the revenue side of local governments is the same, so the budget balance should remain in place. But I still have a question. If the state provides local authorities with an additional EUR 15,4 million and later EUR 32.4 million, this must come at the expense of something. Have you, after all, planned and planned for what the state will do? Does he make any cuts, raise any taxes, or is there a third way? Have you considered and thought about this before you brought the bill to the hall? Please, let me know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U42	Yes, we are. It was yesterday that, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, amendments were under discussion, including one amendment from the Socialist Group, which included the same loss of revenue that the country would incur as a result of this proposal, and the corresponding sources of expenditure. I believe that it exists in the minutes of the Committee on Monetary Affairs; there are also sources of cover. I cannot answer not because I do not want to, but because the question is that we have a complex solution in place. I cannot say that one or the other particular source of cover corresponds to this particular number. We have a "package" to deal with. It's very difficult to bring out a source of cover. Is this a slowdown in the rate of increase in defence expenditure, an increase from 1.75% to 1.77% of GDP, instead of an increase to 2.0% of GDP, which would increase defence expenditure by 22%? It could be the source of the cover. We don't have a specific name for this source of cover. But our bill contains it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U43	Thank you. Please, Tavi Cloth, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U44	Thank you. Good waitress! You've really gotten yourself into a bit of a mess with some of the answers. The argument that the municipal income base should not be linked at all to tax receipts, that it is a separate category, which you referred to as a fundamental issue, I am sorry, is in no way acceptable. The exact same fundamental issue is education costs, the exact same fundamental issue is social costs and rescue costs. These are all fundamental questions. But, unfortunately, the reality is that all of these must also be linked to tax receipts, i.e. really state revenues, the state's ability to spend. There's no separate money falling from the sky. My question is therefore quite general and philosophical: have you learned a bit about the financial crisis in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U45	Yes, I am. That could be a short answer. But I'll explain it again. Communication requires two parties to move information. If one party, regardless of which party, doesn't work well, the information doesn't move. I will say once again that I absolutely do not dispute that the revenue of local governments is falling. They will automatically decrease if there is a recession and when people's incomes are reduced. The question is, if we have two pots, one is a pot of the state, and the other is a pot of the municipalities, and both arise according to their own rules, or at least could occur, and if the country now sees that its pot has less money, whether it is entitled to take away another piece, in addition to the decrease that the municipalities themselves will have. This is exactly the same piece that has actually been taken away and which the explanatory memorandum refers to, saying that in addition to the fall in income tax due from the recession, which is entirely natural and which affected all municipalities, the State decided to take further 4.7%. I don't think that's fair. That is a matter of principle. Nobody disputes that local governments' revenues are falling during the recession.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U46	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U47	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I find it a little strange to hear that when we are discussing the draft and asking about the sources of cover, the answer is roughly that we were discussing in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the sources of cover I cannot say exactly, this is a complex solution, maybe the financial cover will come from there, maybe somewhere else. I would like to hear specifically from the hall where this money comes from and at whose expense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U48	Once again, I can't tell you exactly what the source is. But we touched, for example, on the possibility of increasing defence spending by 8% next year instead of 22%. This is a proposal from the Social Democratic Party. About 40 million euros will be released alone, but the cost of this draft will be 15.4 million euros. If you want, you can easily claim that the money comes from there. In fact, as you can see, a slower increase in defence spending will leave much more money than is needed to restore the revenue base of local governments. So the sources of cover are there in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U49	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U50	Thank you, manager. Thank you, dear waitress. You got pretty close to the Reform Party, because their principle is that reforms should be implemented so that reform, for God's sake, doesn't change anything. The ideal is a thin country with culture, education, municipalities, law enforcement in crisis. However, can you read from your last response that budget priorities should be changed and that, in order to change something, something could be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U51	Yes, I think there are certain things in the budget that may be a little question of priority. I believe that, in the course of the budgetary procedure, there will be proposals from the various political groups in this regard. At the end of the day, it is only a government concept, but we are still a parliament of a parliamentary state here. I believe it is perfectly normal that Parliament also has opinions on the budget and that it may not always coincide with the opinion of the Government of the Republic. In this sense, I can certainly confirm that the Socialists believe that there are priorities in the budget that could be changed. They are on the revenue side and also on the expense side.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U52	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U53	Finally, we learned that there is a very clearly defined source of protection. What, in your opinion, are these facts and trends in the world on the basis of which it could be said that national defence should be developed very slowly or that it has nothing to do with it? What inspires you to these pacifistic initiatives? What are these facts?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U54	Thank you. As I have tried many times to say, our draft is not specifically linked to any source of cover. So it is not correct to state that because the capacity of local authorities is increasing, the defence capacity is decreasing. It is not correct to contrast these two things. But when it comes to defence spending, it's, frankly, logical. It is very difficult to say that expenditure in one area or another, which is still in deficit, the expenditure of which still exceeds revenue, should be increased suddenly by 22% in one year, regardless of how necessary or unnecessary this area seems to us. The 22% increase in one area is a little much in terms of proportion. Of course, within the field, this increase may be like this in one place or another, but the fact that defence is the only area that should be developed at the expense of everyone else did not seem very reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U55	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U56	Good waitress! I don't understand why these reform parties are so nervous. With every question, their questions become more ridiculous. On the weekend, a brother shouted that it was great, that the municipalities would get more quota money. Maybe you can explain to them what the difference is when the municipality receives a fixed percentage of income tax or quota money for investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U57	A good example is that when we are talking about kindergarten and quota money is not specifically intended for this object, in one case it is possible to allocate money for it, in the other case it is not. In other words, no matter what expenditure the municipalities have to make, they cannot be made out of quota money, except for the specific subject for which this CO2 quota money has been allocated. With this money, some local governments may be able to make an object more energy-efficient, as is the point, but in general it will not solve the structural problems that already exist in local governments and possibly they will progress next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U58	Thank you. Please, George Ratas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think you're gonna go pretty good in your answers, whether it's a straight path or a winding forest path, and you're gonna ignore the swamps that were thrown at you here very nicely. So you're clearly in your answers. The government coalition is talking about solidarity, that municipalities should be as solidarity-based as the state is. Are you reminding us when the percentage of personal income tax received by municipalities at the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009 was cut from 11.93% to 11.4% (it was about 440 million Estonian kroons at the time), did the state also reduce its budget revenues, its budget receipts, or did it remain in the state budget to cover other expenditures?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U60	It's hard to say. I would rather bring this parallel to the fact that, when the tax share for municipalities decreased in that year, the state raised VAT at 2%, or changed the rules so that it could raise more money. The municipalities no longer have this possibility at all. At the time it was, but it could also be implemented only in the municipality where it was theoretically possible, no smaller municipality could actually increase its income in any way. Of course, you can say that in some places you could play a little bit with the land tax rate, but basically there were no levers. That's the main problem. It is always possible for the state to increase revenue to cover expenditure; local governments do not actually have such an option at the moment. That's a pretty fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U61	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U62	Thank you very much. Here we have mentioned the cost of protection and your desire to take strenuous steps here. This approach is a bit surprising, but since a clear word has been spoken, my question also awaits a clear word in answer. One reason for this was the sharp increase in these expenditures. Does this mean that the 40% increase in funding for local roads is evil in the sense of social democrats and the devil, and the Social Democrats are strongly opposed to it? This percentage is higher than the percentage increase in defence expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U63	Thank you. Good question. I also suggest you look at the percentage reduction in the funding of municipal roads. It is remembered that the money on local roads accounted for 15% of the excise duty, currently slightly over 6%. Considering that it was cut from 15% to 5% and also reduced to a further level of excise duty, it can be calculated how many percent of municipal road money actually decreased. In view of this decline, if we are now trying to put a large picture of the municipalities somewhere, I think it is very difficult to find an area that has gone through a similar downward trend in the big picture. So it's definitely not evil. On the contrary, we can see that if excise duty decreases, it will decrease just as much for both countries and municipalities. If there is still going to the so-called potty of the municipalities to reduce their share of the already decreasing excise duty, I think that is fundamentally incorrect. It is a relatively good illustrative material also for the problem that this bill is trying to solve.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U64	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U65	A normal person hesitates and doubts, and you can see it. The coalition hesitated and doubted, and this was also demonstrated by the result of the vote when we voted in favour of the EFSF. The Social Democrats stood like an iron wall without hesitation for these two billion euros to be gone from Estonia. You had no doubts. Question: is it sincere that you wish to do something financially for the local authorities, too, or did you sincerely vote in favour of giving up these two billion?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U66	I understood that this question, in its logic, concerned the possible behaviour of the Social Democratic Party Group in the vote on this draft. I guess it's not to be seen. It seems to me that there are more of us in the Chamber this time than in the EFSF vote. I believe that the percentage of votes in favour is the same as at that time. [[Igor Gräzini's appeal.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U67	Thank you, Igor! We're going to finish this discussion right now. Next question, Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U68	Thank you. Good waitress! We are only talking about raising the reduced tax rate back to the previous level, but the problem is actually deeper. After all, the fine-tuning fund was reduced and, in addition, the biggest impact on the financial capacity of the municipality was the increase in VAT and excise duties. They must be paid by the municipality. You can't get it back from anywhere. Deficite is actually bigger.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U69	Yeah, that's right. As we mention in the draft explanatory memorandum, we see in our proposal on the state budget that, in fact, the equalisation fund should be increased to the same extent. The amount isn't that high, but the proportion is the same. Otherwise, it would really only help the wealthier municipalities, but not those who do not manage themselves so well. The increase in VAT, the increase in excise duty, the overall inflation has been mentioned here. Being constructive, it cannot be said that all the reasons why the costs of local governments have increased would be caused by an evil government, there are many wider reasons. But the reality is that local government revenues have decreased and the costs of one or another activity have actually increased as a result of inflation in different areas. This is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U70	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U71	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I guess these questions have been a little ridiculous lately. But I want to remind you about the road money in 2009, when the fuel excise really came to the local budgets at 15%. At present, 5% will be collected, and next year it will be raised to 6.7%. So this 40% increase isn't, I think, the place where the coalition should be very cheery. Good waitress! Do you think that the local governments' budgets for next year will be so covered that they can handle all their tasks, or will what the opposition said three years ago is going on that the funds will be taken away from the local governments, so you can prove that they cannot carry out their tasks?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U72	I have worked in the municipality myself, and, let's say, not in the municipality where coping would have been very critical. I can say that the situation in decent, fully functioning municipalities is also very difficult. Really, for a few years now, it has not been doing anything to develop, but really doing what it does to survive. It's actually pretty sad when you're in possession of the picture. I strongly recommend that you speak to the parish elders. I believe that they say the same thing that they have not been able to develop anything for several years, but their whole function of managing the municipality and providing services is that they try to survive somehow by providing the services that this community needs. This is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U73	No further questions. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. I ask for a presentation of Taavi Rõivas, member of the Chair Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Finance on 24 October when Mrs Vassilyev presented it to us as the initiator's representative. The purpose of the draft is to restore the income tax rate of a natural person to the local government unit at the level of 2008. The questions and issues raised in the Committee on Monetary Affairs were, of course, first of all concerned the impact of the draft on the state budget, because it is inevitably the case that any proposal that implies a high cost must be a concrete and clear source of coverage. The question to the big hall today is: did you get the certainty, with sufficient clarity, of what this source of cover is? I ask you to take this into account when you vote. The Committee on Monetary Affairs did not receive a very clear answer on what this source of cover could be, but according to the rules in force, any draft which brings high costs must have an equivalent source of cover. If there is no source of cover, and it is as stated in the explanatory memorandum, that the effects of the law on the balance of the public sector are close to zero or quite zero, because the same amount of local government revenue is increasing, then two options can be expected. Firstly, the effect will only be zero if local authorities do not actually use this money, which is obviously inappropriate or unsubstantiated expectations, or, secondly, as the previous speaker mentioned and he also said in the Commission, when the State cuts costs equally. This is the dispute that also attracted the most attention in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In reality, this draft still means a very large reduction in the costs of the second area or an increase in tax. Even if there is no specific source of cover, this does not mean that there is no impact. There was talk about the Equalisation Fund, about local government loans, which actually only touch the edge of this issue, but what the lending capacity of local governments will be in the coming years was under quite thorough discussion. The government representative provided information that local authorities were offered an offer that their income base would be increased by EUR 20 million if the municipalities did not increase the deficit, but the municipalities did not accept this proposal. I would point out that EUR 20 million would have an impact on all municipalities by about a third more than the impact of this draft next year. The law on the financial management of the local government unit was also discussed, which is also linked to this draft, but since this discussion took place in the Commission, it is probably correct to mention it to you. Now for the government's opinion. The government discussed this draft on 14 July and the government's decision was not to support the draft for the following reasons. Firstly, in the current economic situation, there is no justified increase in the percentage as the income tax receipts of municipalities have increased 1.7 times since 2004, while the consumer price index has changed 1.4 times. Thus, faster than inflation, income tax growth in reality has increased the capacity of municipalities to perform their tasks. Secondly, different solutions can be used to support municipal budgets. In the 2011 state budget, EUR 146 million has been earmarked for the development of their infrastructure from external aid instruments. This is complemented by grants for environmental investments. About 40 million euros of revenue from the sale of emission allowances are planned for local government energy-saving projects. For my part, I would add that all the opportunities for local government investment will increase further next year. In the state budget next year, the volume of investments will be record high, never so large, it will be 28% higher than this year. If absolutely every investment is located in the territory of one municipality or another and has an impact on local life, a very large part of this investment goes most directly to local life through municipal budgets. If you allow me to make a personal assessment, I do not agree that the tens or hundreds of millions of euros that go to order schools and kindergartens that go to local roads do not promote local life or that these millions are somehow less valuable than those that the municipality receives from its own budget through income tax. This million goes exactly the same way to promote local life and, in fact, helps local governments to save costs in many cases in the future. The Committee on Finance decided to place the draft on the agenda on 8 November (this decision was consensual) and to reject it at first reading (by 5 votes to 4, with 0 abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U75	Thank you. Now the questions. Rannar Vasiliev, first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U76	Thank you. I understand that this solution, where the increase in costs is not specifically linked either to an increase in revenue or to a reduction in expenditure, is not appropriate. As far as I am concerned, a large amount of expenditure in the state budget is not related to a specific revenue or to any other expenditure cut. Consequently, I have this question. If the state increased defence costs by 22%, what was the specific source of cover? In other words, what was not specifically done?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U77	Thank you. I believe that there is sufficient knowledge and historical experience in the Group of the Social Democratic Party on how the whole budget text and concrete drafts or amendments to the budget differ. If the budget has revenue on one side and expenditure on the other side, each specific change must include a very specific cover. This particular cover may be such that money is taken away from another place or raised by some kind of tax or whatever this additional revenue option is. These things aren't exactly technically the same. I therefore call for all the drafts to be drawn up so correctly that any new cost that the opposition or, in my opinion, the coalition wants to introduce is covered by a specific source of cover. This is an elementary procedural logic, which is very clear both in the organisation of work and in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U78	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U79	Good President! Honourable performer! If the mother gives the child ten euros and tells the child to buy specific goods, then the next day she cannot give the child eight euros, still telling the child to buy the same goods, not to mention that the mother insists that more should be bought for eight euros. It's just not possible. But this is exactly what the state has done to the local governments. He's reduced the municipal income base, but he hasn't reduced the liabilities. On the contrary, commitments have increased in recent years, even because of the new basic school and upper secondary school law, but there are still examples. My question: if the state is not prepared to increase the revenue base of the municipalities, maybe the state will be prepared to reduce the responsibilities of the municipalities and take them on its shoulders? There are many opportunities, for example, the salaries of kindergarten teachers, which vary greatly from one municipality to another. But there's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U80	Thank you. If my memory isn't fooled, then the respected questioner was at this difficult time when the state had to make cuts and narrow down the state's and local government's spending, a member of the government. It is very difficult for me, as a Member of Parliament, to justify what you did or did not do in your time. But as far as I can remember, the reduction in the share of income tax was accompanied very clearly by a reduction in the specific tasks of local governments. At the same time, I recommend that this issue be assessed very clearly in the context. The recession was all-Estonian. It is not real that, in a situation where the state is raising money in every area, the costs of local governments can only increase. It's not realistic. If we look at who has actually cut more, the municipalities are not here at all about the red lantern. The country had to cut costs in a very large number of areas. It is an economic reality and it is not so much up to us as to the surrounding environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U81	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The Social Democratic Party Group has visited nine county visits since March. The picture we have seen in these visits is that there are many local patriots in rural areas who do nothing about anything. I'm not sure how long these people will last. But we've also met a lot of local government leaders in the Reform Party. If we have asked them to mention one important problem, this is a municipal revenue base that needs to be increased. But the municipal leaders who belong to the Reform Party are particularly sad when we ask them to turn to the leaders of their party. Is everything all right with internal democracy in your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U83	Thank you. This issue has nothing to do with the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But I think that the Reform Party has been a model for other political parties in terms of internal democracy all along the way. By the way, including county visits, we are already going to several circles, at least during the time I have been in Parliament. These concerns and joys on the ground are well - known to us. But the problem is not how big the specific tax element is, but the problem is that our overall prosperity is not at the level we would like. I very much ask you if you are also making proposals on the cover of this particular draft, which will dampen economic growth in Estonia, for example, a brutal tax increase, so that you can think about whether you want life in the same rural area to be better in five and ten years' time, or whether you want to take a moment's pleasure in the rise in income tax of a few percent and forget about future growth in the amount that could come if the Estonian tax system is competitive and growth-friendly in Europe. I suggest you think about that, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U84	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U85	Thank you, good manager. The Reform Party is trying to show itself as a tax saint for whom tax talk is taboo, especially when it comes to some structural change. However, our tax burden has increased rather than decreased in recent years, but that is why. You also talk a lot about the sources of cover, that everything has to have a source of cover. I'm gonna ask you a little bit about history. When a 2% increase in VAT was announced overnight, actually banging the municipalities, did you have just as passionate a discussion on where the municipalities find a source to cover this cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U86	Thank you. Talking about taxes is certainly not taboo for the Reform Party. On the contrary, we have the strongest tax competence, I dare say, among the Estonian political parties. This is simply one of the topics that the Reform Party has dealt with very seriously since 1994. As far as the question is concerned, I must say that it was not under discussion in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U87	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, If memory doesn't fool me, at some point you were chairman of the Finance Commission. You were, weren't you? It was in the previous composition. You say incredible things about the former Chairman of the Monetary Commission. For example, you will draw our attention to the fact that, for some reason, you must protest against the fact that this bill does not show a source of cover. It doesn't have to be. If we were to discuss the budget, every change should have a source of cover. This draft must indicate the possible impact and this effect is also shown in the explanatory memorandum. How can such a mistake be explained? Why do you keep talking about what doesn't have to be in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U89	Thank you. Very good pointer, good questioner! Indeed, I will repeat more precisely. First, point 5 of the draft explanatory memorandum states: "By taking as a basis the estimated income tax receipts for local authorities in the state budget strategy, the cost to the state budget is EUR 15,4 million in 2012 and EUR 32,4 million in 2013. At the same time, local government revenues are increasing, so changes in the balance of the public sector budget are not reflected. " The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this very thoroughly and came to a clear opinion that this argument was wrong. As I said, the budgetary balance of the public sector, the balance of the public sector budget, to be exact, will not be reflected only if no single municipality takes up the money that is more received. I believe that everyone in this Chamber understands that this is an unrealistic expectation. It is true that this particular source of cover for which money is to be taken must be set out in the amendment on the state budget. Thank you for bringing this to my attention. But I think that in a debate where we are discussing a large extra cost to the state, it would be appropriate for the representative of the initiator of the draft to say in as clear a word as possible what is the intended source of cover. This would be appropriate in such a debate, because to say that this money may come from defence costs, but may also come from higher income tax, it does not give a serious impression, let us be honest. It is very difficult to vote in favour of any good proposal if we really do not know whether the source of cover is realistic, if it exists at all. It would therefore be appropriate, even if there is no specific source in the draft explanatory memorandum, to mention it in this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U90	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U91	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Did the Riigikogu know a specific source of cover when dealing with the draft exemption of the Reform Party and the home country initiated by the IRL? Is your criticism of our draft therefore not hypocritical, or do we have some double standards in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U92	Thank you. These drafts enter into force at different times. Since the abolition of the tax on homeland was announced much longer than the amendments to this draft, there was also a certain amount of time available to clarify the source of cover, whether it was a tax percentage or a specific allocation. But I assure you, just as it was confirmed at the time of the draft exemption, that this exemption will be compensated for by the municipalities. I haven't made a secret of what my personal preference is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U93	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U94	Thank you. Good waitress! Your answer to the previous question may be described in the same way as you described the previous rapporteur's answers to the questions. You have an extremely innovative and, in fact, completely misleading interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Act, basic budget law and general procedural rules, which contradicts previous practice. Are you really saying that the complex amendment to the budget, which increases several items of expenditure in one proposal, while reducing other items of expenditure and increasing several items of revenue, is somehow contrary to the Rules of Procedure Act or the Basic Budget Act? I'm saying it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U95	Thank you. In light of the mere features mentioned by the questioner, it seems to me that a specific proposal is not in any way contrary to the Rules of Procedure Act. I am here as a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. At the time of the discussion of the Committee on Finance, no proposal had been tabled to amend the budget. Therefore, during the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we were unable to see the complex package to which the good questioner, I believe, referred now. At that time, it was not even known in the degree of specificity that this is currently included in the proposed amendment, which could be the source of the cover. But once again, it's a matter of style and taste. In the case of a draft of this weight, I would prefer that it be written down very directly, whether this money comes from, for example, a reduction in defence costs. This is one choice that we put into one consideration the increase in the payment of income tax to the local government by a few per cent and the other by the defence capacity of Estonia. That would be an honest choice. Or it could be said specifically that the source of cover is progressive income tax and the resulting increase in income tax receipts. That, too, would be an honest choice. It never tends to be that there is such a good bill that it means extra income to someone, but there will never be extra costs. I suggest that both the drafts and the political debate be correct in that sense, in order to say what this political choice is. The political choice you currently have is that municipalities will gain 2% more tax revenue and all residents of the municipality will face a gradual tax increase. All right, clear choice. That's what you say!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U96	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U97	Honourable Member of the Commission. You and I are on the same committee. This draft was discussed in the Commission before the state budget. Today, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has also examined the amendments to the state budget. Has the Social Democratic Party Group tabled an amendment to this state budget, called the 2012 state budget, to cover the expenditure provided for in this draft and also provides for revenue to be covered?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U98	Thank you. The good questioner puts me in a difficult position in that I have to present the Commission's debate here, but this proposal had not been tabled during the debate. The Commission's debate could not in any way be based on an amendment that might be received in the future. But yes, today this proposal has been received, it also lists the things that I have already referred to, i.e. a significant reduction in the increase in defence spending and a gradual increase in income tax. I'm sorry I'm going into a little speculation, but the questioner himself provoked it! I believe that if this proposal to change the state budget had been on the table of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it would probably have been pointed out in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that growth is a much more sustainable source of budget growth than tax increases. If we look at the income tax received by the local government in the following year alone, the state budget says it will increase by 7 to 8%. The draft under discussion would only increase the proportion received by municipalities by around 2%. We're seeing a 3- to 4-time difference here. So once again: if this amendment to the budget had been on the table of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this debate would certainly have been different, perhaps it would have been a little more constructive, but the result, I believe, would have been the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U99	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U100	Thank you. I would point out that this draft was submitted on 16 June when no one could yet read the 2012 state budget. As a result of this claim that any draft which generates potential costs could have a specific source of cover, do I ask whether the draft submitted in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in spring reducing personal income tax by 1% in 2015 was also recalled and whether this draft had a specific source of cover, which is why the 2015 budget is not specifically covered?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U101	Thank you. I don't want to start explaining the basic rules for budgeting here. I believe that this knowledge actually exists in your group and you will be able to ask experienced colleagues about it. There are very clear technical differences between the proposals for next year's budget and those for budgets that have not yet been submitted. There is no point in discussing this for a very long time. This bill, indeed, was presented in the summer, but the debate in this Chamber is taking place today. Today we already know that the cost of this bill is, in fact, covered by the tax increase. This tax increase (I believe that not all those in this Chamber may know this) means not only the introduction of progressive income tax, but also the increase in the tax rate, for example, for all teachers, rescue officers, and also for local government leaders. In my opinion, when introducing this draft, the initiator's representative could have shared this information with the people in this Chamber so that we could make a thoughtful and prudent decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U102	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U103	Madam Chairman! Good performer! Let it be said immediately that the Social Democrats have also proposed that unemployment insurance should decrease by 0.8%. Why didn't you mention it now? This means that there will be no tax increase for rescue officers. But here's my question. You said that you are not prepared to increase the municipal income base, you are not prepared to take down commitments. I ask: if the local governments do not have enough money to fulfil their obligations, and this is the case at the moment, what advice do you give to the local governments, what responsibilities should they ignore and whistle at their execution, just as the government, for example, whistles at the execution of the Supreme Court's judgment? Give me some advice, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U104	Thank you. First of all, to be precise, the proposal to reduce unemployment insurance contributions has not been received by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, either by the Commission or by anyone else. That's one. Secondly, I certainly do not agree with the fact that the state or government is whistling at the decisions of the Supreme Court. That is a completely arbitrary statement. Thirdly, if you give me a chance to give advice, the first thing I would do is give advice to my home government. I would advise you to deal first with these matters, which are the tasks of the local government. These things are tea, good times, kindergartens. These are issues that have been totally neglected in my home government, while many other things are being dealt with. We can argue in this Chamber whether these are the right or the wrong things, maybe it is not our competence to decide it, maybe we can only decide it as citizens and voters, but purely by law, these are certainly not the primary tasks of the municipality. So if you ask me what my advice is to local governments, I certainly don't think it's right to start sharing any wisdom with other local governments as a tallinian. I certainly don't think that's appropriate. People on the ground are the smartest to make their own decisions. But as a resident and citizen of Tallinn, I am saying that the first priority should be to deal with what is the task of the municipality and only in the second order with what nourishes the vanity of the city leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U105	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I watched "Actual Camera" on Sunday and yesterday. You and your coalition partner Sester claimed that next year the local governments will receive 8% more income tax. At the same time, wages do not increase, unemployment has started to rise again, emigration is accelerating. What is your optimism about an increase of 8%, and are you sure that municipalities are planning an increase of 8% in income tax? I am sure that neither the Reform Party nor the local government leaders of the IRL will do so, let alone others. Do you have any other data and what kind of optimism?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U107	Thank you. A typical opposition issue that contained a large number of false claims and finally a completely relevant issue. Where do I start? Completely wrong arguments are that there is reason to believe that unemployment will be higher next year than this or last year. The trend of unemployment is clearly falling and it is worth remembering. That's exactly how we see wages rising. You can safely say that from this year's data. The average nominal wage in Estonia is now higher than ever. With regard to next year's salary receipts, we must, of course, trust the forecasts. But it is the budgetary process that is based on the most considered and analysed knowledge that politicians have to use. Every economic forecast drawn up by the competent institutions is always a better basis for budgeting than a politician's gut. Therefore, I dare say that, if the official forecast by the Ministry of Finance foresees that local authorities will receive 664 million instead of 615 million, this is the knowledge that makes it appropriate to draw up the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U108	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit with disappointment that you are not a committee waitress in this board, you are a representative of your party, and you are holding a political meeting for us. About as the Minister of Culture did yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who took the opportunity to talk about the Tallinn Song Festival Square and lied to us so that his mouth smoked. That there is a need to increase the spending of the Ministry of Defence, we really discussed it in the Commission. If you're already making an argument, why don't you talk about the argument I put forward, why don't you tell me that there's been some mistakes in public procurement at the Ministry of Defence, rent surfaces, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U110	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U111	You remember that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U112	Good fellows! I believe you all noticed that the complaint about the departure from the subject was made to me, but at the same time the complainer or the good questioner himself asked about a subject that absolutely does not concern the local government's revenue base, much less draft 74. As Mrs Vassiliev pointed out very rightly before, in order for communication to work, it is necessary that both parties contribute to this. I ask that the questions be addressed, I will certainly answer the question. As a Commission rapporteur, I would be very comfortable to answer at least two thirds of your questions so that this particular issue was not discussed by the Commission, but I hope you will appreciate it when I try to answer in substance and give reasons why one decision or another was reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U113	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, from the line!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U114	I'd rather have a procedural question. If there is a Commission waitress, is it really not possible to direct him in such a way that he conveys the ideas that were discussed in the Commission and does not put flies in our heads? It was argued that I was diverting somewhere, but I was talking about what was happening in the Commission when we discussed this issue. Why can't I answer my question?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U115	Thank you. Since the question was for me, I'll answer. The questioner asks, and the waiter answers according to the knowledge, information, and facts he has. I am certainly not going to be the mouthpiece of Taavi Clothes, and I believe that the previous question has been answered. Please, Kajar Lember, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U116	Thank you. Thank you very much for your substantive answers. We heard a message about the level of tax competence in one party. Please explain in purely tax theory how the balance of the public sector will change if the income tax part of the state budget is increased to the municipalities. If the share of income tax received by the state is increased to municipalities, how will this affect the balance of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U117	Thank you, good questioner! I'm in a bit of a perplexing position. I'd be happy to give you a tax-theoretical lecture, but with this, I'm going to upset our good fellow Mikhail Stalnukhin. Let's make sure we discuss this later, and then I'll be happy to explain it to you. Otherwise, they'll blame us for not sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U118	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, You said a little while ago that every decision comes with a political choice. That's right. I will refer my question to the Commission. Am I right to understand that the Commission has made a political choice and prefers the concentration of public funds in the central state budget, hence central government governance to the increase in the income base of local governments and the sustainability of local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U120	Thank you. No, you didn't get it right. At the time this draft was discussed in the Commission, no specific source of cover was known. It was therefore very difficult for the Commission to choose between different options. We had a bill on the table, which meant a considerable extra cost to the state budget, but it was not mentioned what to do it for. If, at that point, a clear source of cover had been on the table, as I said before, there would probably have been more pros and cons in the debate. We were guided by the knowledge we had in the Commission on the day of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U121	Please, Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U122	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am not going to talk here about how local authorities will manage within this budget today and in the future. There have been enough questions here. I think the people sitting in this hall understand this situation perfectly. I will ask my question as a follow-up to Mr Nestor's question. You said that when this issue was discussed, you did not yet have the national budget amendments tabled by the Sociers. It makes perfect sense. I would like to remind you that in the spring session we also discussed the issue of local road money on the proposal of the Sots. Then you were willing to finish your first reading. Today, on behalf of the Commission, you proposed not to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U123	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U124	Yeah, I'm asking. Have you not discussed in the Commission that this draft could still be referred to second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U125	This question, too, does not concern the bill. But I was confused by the previous speech by the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, who said that if there is a 22% increase in funding in this area, it is a little much proportionally, it is too much, no matter what the matter is. It was a quote. We will increase investments in local government roads by 40% next year. I don't think that's too much. I believe that if it were possible, we would increase them more. I just hope that we will also hear some consistency in the messages of the Socialists, so that dialogue can be better pursued. However, if you answer a very specific question that, although it did not concern the draft, I must say that I do not know that the Committee on Monetary Affairs would have a plan to discuss this matter for a second time. But I may be wrong, and I suggest that you ask the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U126	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You may also know that the purpose of this bill is to plan the real financial capacity of local authorities. We also learned from previous statements that the municipalities will expect an unprecedented amount of money coming from quota sales next year. Of course, this money needs to be used with great skill. The construction market, along with the quota money, is, as we know, moving up and up. If there is a situation where the local government is short of money when financing one or the other object, the local government must contribute to it itself. It's a big threat next year. Please generalise how the local government is able to start these objects and complete the construction process.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U128	Thank you. That's a good question. Quota sales are by no means the only source from which local authorities will be able to obtain funds for investment next year, but indeed, dozens of educational establishments, parish houses and other municipalities and residents of local governments, which are particularly important, will be renovated by means of quota sales both this year and next year. Energy saving often also means a much nicer and aesthetic appearance and a nicer environment because of new windows, doors, heating systems or facades. There is no self-financing for these projects. It is true, however, that in some cases it may seem reasonable to replace the parquet with the change of windows and doors, for example, if the floor is dampened or something like that. In most cases, when windows and doors are replaced, related works such as painting the walls from quota sales money are financed, but the parquet exchange is not necessarily linked to energy savings and cannot be financed purely on the basis of these contracts from the money used to sell CO2 quotas. It is very difficult to prove that parking would somehow contribute to energy savings. It is therefore not fit for purpose in the context of this project. Unfortunately, it is up to both local authorities and public authorities to decide whether it is possible to replace the parquet with other works or whether it should be left for the next few years. But I would like to stress once again that the sums that go from quota sales to municipalities alone exceed the impact of this bill about ten times. If we look at the additional investments in roads, if we look at the additional use of the euro, then we are talking about different orders of magnitude. We have asked an enormously important question as to whether or not the municipal income base will increase by 1% as a result of the draft. This bill increases the income tax revenue of local governments by just over 2% and the total municipal income base by just over 1%. That's what we're talking about. 1% of local government revenue is certainly not a key issue in the capacity of local governments. A much more important question is whether Estonia's tax policy and fiscal policy favour economic growth and the growth of citizens' incomes, so that the extra tax revenue from economic growth also comes from the income of local governments. I would like to point out once again that growth-only revenue growth in the municipalities next year is three times the impact of this bill. Once again, economic growth is a much more sustainable source of fiscal revenue growth than tax increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U129	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As a former journalist, I am very respectful of verbal communication. I would urge you sincerely to read the verbatim of today's sitting, which, unfortunately, is not yet there, you will also see yourself that at least five times you drew our attention to the fact that there is some kind of competence in your party that opposition parties do not have. I don't think that's a polite argument, but that's it. The other thing is, I don't think you understood the Urve Palo question. I have a sincere wish that we are currently abandoning our home government. Can you, please, also advise those small municipalities that are obviously unable to cope with their tasks on the basis of such a revenue base? What should be done, for example, in the municipality of Karusoo, who does not have television, radio or wallpaper, but whose tasks are not adequately financed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U131	Thank you. First of all, when the questioners ask for technical explanations about general procedural practices, procedural rules, budgetary rules or something like that, it can inevitably be the impression that if I answer by explaining how these things work, I feel like I want to teach someone. Of course, that is not the case. I'm sorry if that's what it looks like! I still want to explain. When people ask me how it works, I'll explain how it works. Evidently, then, the questioner had reason to ask, and I too have reason to answer. Now to the management of specific municipalities. I don't think it's basically right that someone from "Smart Tallinn" comes along and starts teaching me how to manage the local government, how to plan the city's revenue. I'm convinced that the local people are the smartest people to make life-long decisions of their own. Under no circumstances would I impose on the municipalities the management practice of Tallinn. In my opinion, the biggest thing that has been done to local governments is that since Tallinn is the largest and most visible local government, very often when we talk about local governments here too, we make the mistake of seeing Tallinn as the first local government. We see everything that Tallinn has done completely wrong, and we think that these are the local governments. This is the biggest misconception that can be, because most local governments are much more capable of running their own affairs than the largest local government. I'm afraid that's the case. We take a small municipality, such as the city of Elva. Elva's former mayor was just visiting the Riigikogu. Elva has childcare facilities in order, basic services are working, roads are being cleared. Let's take Konguta, which is a small parish next to Elva. Once again, these are the main things, be they the community house, the schoolhouse, the kindergarten, to which the community will first contribute, only then will it be discussed whether to make a page, a television channel and a mupot, and any such tricks. Unfortunately, these things are the opposite in Tallinn. First comes mypo and then comes all the rest of the stuff, which, unfortunately, isn't enough money for.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U132	Please, Karel Knight, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! If I may, I will continue with the question of Urve Palo, which, unfortunately, I did not receive an answer to. What could be the tasks that municipalities are giving up if they do not have money to fill due to a reduction in their income base? For a very long time, we have heard that everything is bad in Tallinn. But there are 226 municipalities in Estonia and Tallinn is only one of them. I have the feeling that a certain number or group of "smarts" have come up with a plan how the central authority keeps the municipalities on a leash so that they don't become independent and strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U134	Thank you. The mistaken view is that the local governments' income base will be reduced in some way next year. That is why this question is already wrong in its basic assumptions. When we talk specifically about income tax receipts, next year the municipalities as a whole, all in all, will increase from 615 million to 664 million euros. This is EUR 49 million, or more than three times as much as this bill provides for.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U135	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When you answered my previous question, you said that I made the wrong claim regarding unemployment, unemployment being reduced in your opinion. But you also know that even registered unemployment has increased for three weeks in a row, not to mention long-term unemployment. In the meantime, Elva's teas, which have been warmly praised by you, are in the worst of small towns, so this example was not very good either. But I will return to your optimistic assessment that the share of income tax received by municipalities will be 8% higher next year. The Coalition Reform Party and the IRL belong to Tartu. As far as I am aware, this percentage of Tartu is not intended to be 8, but to be 3,1. Why do your partymates not share your optimism from Tartu, or is this 8% just another number to fool the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U137	Thank you. If you drive from Tallinn to Elva and move around between Elva, then Elva's tea will give you the impression of a mirror compared to the roads in Tallinn. That's one. Secondly, when it comes to planning the budget of each individual municipality, it is, of course, within the competence of each municipality itself. There is nothing wrong with municipalities planning their budgets with even a surplus if they plan much more conservatively than they have done in the past. I consider this to be the right and reasonable principle. Once again, we are talking too much about Tallinn, which, as I said, is doing a huge disservice to the rest of the municipalities, because Tallinn's mistakes are best seen everywhere. However, most municipalities plan their budgets conservatively. They do not therefore have to state, in the middle of the financial year, that there is a lack of money to do one thing or another, but that they have the possibility, in the middle of the financial year, to make additional expenditure or to place money in reserves or to reduce the burden of debt. I generally find it very commendable when one or the other municipality conservatively plans its budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U138	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U139	Thank you. Good waitress! I am listening with interest to your constant, but soulful arguments that you are trying to counter the very good bill of the Social Democrats. We are now moving from Tallinn to Tartu. Are you sure that Tartu has enough money to raise the salary of kindergarten teachers and teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U140	Thank you. I think that we have made this particular draft bigger than it actually is in almost two hours of discussion, because this, I would like to emphasise once again, will increase the revenue of local governments by about 1%. This 1% is not a key issue for the local governments' income base. A much more important debate should also be, in the context of the local governments' revenue base, what we have to face with the budget debate if there are proposals to raise taxes if the tax increase is to cut future growth. In fact, these discussions also have a critical impact on the local governments' revenue base. This 1% added to the municipal incomes next year is, of course, of great significance, etc., but if it comes with the step-by-step draft of income tax prepared by the Sotsi, along with this point, which raises income tax for all recipients, including teachers, savers, municipal leaders, local social workers, absolutely everyone, it must be taken into account that, frankly speaking and looking at the synergies, the impact of this bill is not as good as the honourable questioner said.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U141	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U142	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In fact, 1% of local governments also have a lot of money. Speaking of your report, at the beginning of the report, you said that local authorities would receive a lot of money from the sale of CO2 quotas, from the Structural Funds for investments, tea money will increase, and the support fund will also increase. But we know very well that it is so-called 'labelled money', its use cannot be changed. Local authorities are, as if, intermediaries for this money, who have to channel this money to certain specific objects. But now, aside from Tallinn, small municipalities still have a lot to worry about. For example, the aim is to help family doctors, people in distress, organise public transport a little better, so that students can get to school, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U144	Do you really think that this increase in personal income tax rate is such a small amount of money that it doesn't help organize these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U145	Thank you. 1% is also a lot of money for teachers, savers, municipal workers, for all those who want to take away this 1% of their salary in order to give it to the municipal budget. In the municipalities where the payroll is a significant part of the municipality's budget, this means one-handed 1% increase and, on the other hand, the withdrawal of a game with a very small victory. I would like to emphasise once again that the sums granted to municipalities from other lines for investment are even tens of times greater than the 1% we are talking about. I certainly do not agree that the tens of millions of euros that go to renovate kindergartens, schools, community houses, municipal buildings are somehow less valuable than the euros that the municipality itself distributes through its own budget. This money goes exactly the same way to promote local life. There will be an expense, which the municipality would otherwise have to do from the same municipal budget. If there is an investment in some municipalities, perhaps even half a year's budget, and it is used to fix a large object, then it is not just fair or correct to talk about 1% of the most critical thing. Let us talk about synergies and discuss more seriously in this House what we will still achieve by putting schools, kindergartens and parish houses in order. I think it's a big win. This will probably give more money to municipal budgets than this 1% of what we are talking about here today so thoroughly on the basis of the avoided electricity and heating costs alone. Again: this 1% is not free of charge. The 1% that local governments will be offered in the draft law will, as we have learned in today's debate, be taken from the pockets of all employees, increasing their income tax rates, and will also change the levels of income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U146	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! At least two thirds of local authorities are in permanenced difficulties in fulfilling their obligations in full. The modern tax model and, of course, the economic situation do not help to solve this problem. Here's my question. Perhaps it is time to review the entire model of local governments' income base and their responsibilities as well. Maybe the coalition has its own understanding of how to fix this. We are discussing these issues year after year, but there are only more difficulties.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U148	Thank you. I believe that the theme setting is correct and justified. It is appropriate to keep these debates in Parliament at all times. We must always look for solutions to better manage one thing or another. I do not agree with the assessment that two thirds of the local governments of Estonia are in permanenced difficulties in fulfilling their obligations, because the difficulties in fulfilling their obligations do not mean that the money is not enough, but that it indicates that decisions have been taken that are too much. It is already a question of financial discipline. So if you put the question this way, I do not agree that two thirds of the municipalities would be in this position. But I would like to draw attention to an interesting and somewhat grieving fact. The municipalities that face the greatest difficulties are not the smallest municipalities, and not the ones with the least income tax per person. If we look at the deficit and debt burden of local governments, for several years the biggest debts have been the income tax receipts per capita, as if the most wealthy local government in Estonia was Viimsi. Income tax per person is also well received in Tallinn and Pärnu, yet these municipalities have also had difficulties in fulfilling their obligations. In the case of Pärnu, it is true that I have the impression that these problems have gone back in the past and that the new city government has a completely different attitude to financial discipline than the previous one. What do I mean by that? Financial discipline must be respected by all institutions, in particular public authorities, including local authorities or municipalities themselves. However, this is not directly correlated with the size of the revenue base.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U149	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U150	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I do not understand why you keep repeating this 1% because 1% in this draft does not actually equal 1% in the budget of one local government. It could be a different percentage. But the question is this: do you sincerely believe that 226 Estonian municipalities will be able to fulfil all the obligations delegated to them by law in the case of good financial discipline?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U151	Thank you. Now this question requires a very long answer, and it also requires a long debate. I suspect we don't have that much time for this today. I also have an understanding of how municipalities can and could cooperate. But once again, I do not consider it fundamentally right that someone in Tallinn needs to be very detailed about how to make decisions on the ground or spending on the budget. However, as far as 1% of this is concerned, EUR 15,4 million, the municipal income base next year is EUR 1369000000, so you can make an exact adjustment for the proportion of the income base of 15,4 million of all municipalities. It is true that some of the municipalities are slightly larger, namely those who are wealthier in terms of income tax receipts per capita. Smaller and poorer municipalities will win even less than this 1%. So, unfortunately, we're circling 1% of the effects of this bill. This is, as has been said, many times less than the victory that local governments will have next year because of economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U152	Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I disagree with you. You said that all the money from the Structural Funds, which goes into renovation of local government infrastructure, is like promoting life and making local authorities more viable. In fact, we have often heard that the use of money is not due to the need to renovate something, but to the need to spend money. It has also been achieved that two or three infrastructure objects are standing and not being used, i.e. these renovated sites will become even more burdensome for local authorities. So you have to be very careful with these things. Secondly, I would like to say that Sven Sester had a very correct question if he was interested in why he wanted to raise the rate of income tax received by local governments to 11.93%, but not more. Could there be a situation where the Supreme Court's decision envisages a much higher percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U154	Thank you. The quick answer to a specific question is rather no. But if you have information that investments are being made somewhere just to spend the money, I would appreciate it if you shared that information. I believe that, if not all of them, at least the lion's share of the objects that, with the help of the funds obtained from the sale of CO2 quotas, are being processed across Estonia (471, they are now in operation in every county), are such that their repetition makes a very clear contribution to the promotion of life. These are the costs that municipalities should have made for schools, kindergartens or parish houses anyway, sooner or later. In fact, this will free up funds in the budgets of these specific municipalities in order to do something else, what is at the moment most important in this municipality. I do believe that these instruments go most directly to promote local life. I would like to emphasise once again that these amounts are tens of times greater than the increase in the amount of the bill that we are talking about here today. I recommend that all members of the public visit the website of Riigi Kinnisvara AS in real time how one or the other project is going. This particular issue was also discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I also asked colleagues to look at the website www.rkas.ee/co2 of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, where on an interactive map it is possible to see for each particular object, for each particular municipality, for each particular county, what is being done somewhere, with pictures and other such things. I think all the comms have some interesting information to get out of there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U155	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Good performer! You gave an example of Elva teas here. I can tell you that when Elva was renovating the roads, the reform party government was showing some outrageous incompetence. After all, it was written in the newspapers, both in Tartu Postimees and in the local newspaper, it was discussed on television, dozens of questions were made at the council. I personally have a video of how primitive this repair was done. For several years, Elva's roads were a complete Songerland, no one could approach the city. What did you rely on for such an inadequate example? How can such an example be given? You probably don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U157	Thank you. Like I said, to a tall man, Elva's way seems to be mirroring. You're not Elva's resident, but I'm glad that Elva's local people are critical, because every power must be critical, no matter how good that power is. I believe that when this criticism reaches the heads of government, it will certainly be forced to deal with whatever the municipality is. But if you do not like the example of Elva teas and you say that it can be assessed subjectively in any way (I say once again that these roads are mirroring compared to Tallinn), then let us give an example of kindergartens, which I mentioned earlier. Lucky kindergarten's been fine for a long time, and Peedu's got kindergarten in order for a long time. Kindergartens, I dare say, were fixed first. When you walk around Estonia, it turns out that this is actually very typical. It is not just Elva's question, it is everywhere, it is also in Jõgeva, to give an example of your constituency. I guess there's a shortage of money for municipalities everywhere, and there's always a greater desire than opportunities, but smaller municipalities tend to invest first in those places that are most important to the community: kindergartens, schools, also sports facilities, all these things. Only then will the money really be left over be thought of such things as mupods, city pages, and everything else, which maybe the city leaders consider to be fun, but absolutely irrelevant to the city dwellers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U158	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U159	Thank you, Madam President. My first question was based on the spring debate in this Chamber when the Auditor General spoke. It was his judgment that I pointed out. He pointed out that the local authorities had three problems: firstly, the revenue base, secondly, the liability line and thirdly, the fact that the obligations of the state and local authorities were not precisely regulated. My second question or the other part of the question is: does the coalition have an understanding of how to overcome these problems, or does the 8% you have to resolve all these issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U160	Thank you. I am here as a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I am not authorized to comment on the report of the National Audit Office on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But the answer to a specific question is as follows. Certainly, this 8% increase in income tax will also improve the opportunities of local governments. If we look at a slightly longer timeline, we can see that the local governments' income base has increased faster year after year than inflation, or the real capacity of local governments, has increased. Let's base the year 2000 or 2004, whatever year. 2008 is the only exception here. I believe that we all understand in this Chamber that 2008 was an illogical year in terms of the local governments' income base, because the economy fell, but the local governments' income base was still growing. This is very easy to explain in economic terms, because personal income tax revenues are accompanied by economic ups and downs in a bit of inertia. That's it. Consumption taxes accompany specific economic changes much more quickly. But I suggest you look at a little longer timeline, evaluate the whole development, and you will see that in fact the local government income base has grown very clearly from year to year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U161	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U162	I wanted to ask you, good performer, if you didn't happen to confuse the bird right now. Elva is located on the Tartu-Valga highway. You didn't get mixed up, did you? There's a lot of dissatisfaction in this town with the road situation, with the garbage management, with the plumbing. River Emajõgi Waterworks raised the price of water to the ceiling. There is a local reform party newspaper that only reveals the views of the Reform Party. Maybe the story you were saying didn't apply to Elva? Maybe you meant Põlva City, where there are beautiful streets, where the city is fine, and where the Centre Party is in power? Maybe you were wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U163	Thank you. I certainly wasn't wrong. I go to Elva very often. I also remember the results of the local elections when the leading party in the city, if I am not mistaken, received 54% voter support. I think that this is a much more appropriate assessment of the local government's activities than we can give here from afar without being either of Elva's permanent residents. But I also suggest you go to Elva between Kõlva and Peedu kindergarten, look at Lucky kindergarten, go around the city at all. I think what you see there is, in fact, much more beautiful than your negative speech may have seemed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U164	No further questions have been registered. Thank you very much, Javier. I'm opening negotiations. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Let it be said immediately that the Centre Party supports the further processing of Bill 74 amending the Income Tax Act and opposes both the commission and the government's view that the draft should be rejected at first reading. I would like to express my thanks and congratulations to the Group of the Social Democratic Party for drafting and presenting this very good draft. In principle, the same positions have for the last almost three years been the case for us, the Central Party Group, which has stood for the restoration of the income base of local government units, so that the rate of income tax received by municipalities is 11,93%. We have also submitted several drafts to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which provided that the municipal income base should be restored, but unfortunately they have not passed beyond the first reading. There is no need to be a special hiromant to predict that it is likely that today too, when voting on a rejection proposal, green lights will ignite more than red lights. But sometimes it happens that they win the expanding horizon and common sense. The proposals to restore this revenue base have not only been made in the offices of opposition parties, but have been based on places, local authorities themselves. On the basis of these, the proposals of the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities to the Government Committee and the Riigikogu have also been born, in which, among other things, the gross income of the individual is also claimed as income tax as part of the municipal budgets of 11.93%. Thus, the draft law under consideration has broad support. This was the last proposal made by the Cooperation Council during the budget negotiations this year on the budget for the following year. Unfortunately, there was no traditional common ground found here. At the same time as reducing the revenue base, expenditure on fuel, indoor heating, local transport has increased significantly in recent years, all of which have strained the budgetary decision-making of local authorities and reduced the possibilities and quality of service provision. The number of people applying for income support from local governments has increased. The ability of most local authorities to make investments and also to cover the share of self-financing in the construction of sites financed by the Structural Funds of the European Union has decreased to an insufficient extent. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic, as a whole, does not want to support the principle of strengthening local governments either. It appears from the letter from the Minister of Finance that faster than inflation, income tax growth has increased the capacity of municipalities to perform their duties. I wonder what kind? Has there been more snow pushed, or has more street holes been repaired, or will children be offered more opportunities to participate in recreational circles at strong handshakes in the country? I'm afraid not. I cannot agree in any way that the capacity of local authorities has increased in recent years. On the contrary, the municipalities have unfortunately lost capacity year after year. There is a serious problem with keeping the municipalities hungry and, to a large extent, the reform of the local authorities. As legislator, are we saying that the country is well with the local authorities and that we want to talk about the 1500-year victory, or are we seeing a serious problem with access to services among the population? The truth is that, with only a half-per cent increase in the income tax allocation, we will not solve this problem as a whole. However, any message to local governments that they are taken into account and based on partnership with the state is, in any case, several times better than the current setback and disregard. I'm asking for two more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U166	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U167	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U168	Let us say honestly and directly that the system of local governments in Estonia needs to be changed and modernised. This means that we must start, not from borders and the number of municipalities, but from a much more complex and difficult chain of links-problems. The decision of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010 must be implemented; the positions of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe of 26 October 2010 must be taken to the Estonian Government. Have either of them been paid attention? Not much. However, it is precisely the description of services and the sharing of responsibilities that starts with the reform of the municipality, accompanied by the establishment of budgetary principles. Let me quote from the executive edition of the Constitution: "The restoration of Estonian statehood in the late 1980s and the establishment of an independent state administrative organisation was also started from local government. [- - - -] In historical terms, local government plays a very important role in the emergence of Estonian statehood, in its restoration and in the survival of Estonian statehood, because in a democratic society local government links the state with civil society." The Centre Party Group considers that the government has left the local authorities unearned to play the role of orphan, yet their relations should be partnerships, mutually considerate and equal. Good fellows! Today we have been given the historic opportunity to make a clear and quite necessary decision in the service of our people. Let us do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to congratulate the Commission's representative, Mr Rõivas, who gave a fairly correct and constructive overview of the subject and, if he was to be informed of opinions concerning his home party or political reality at all, and of things that were not specifically discussed in the Commission, he also took the trouble to answer these questions. I think it is right to answer all the questions. I now come to a specific draft. I did it by listening to the debate and looking at some notes. I will convey to you the thoughts that have been discussed in the IRL Group and which have been written on my papers. First of all, I am talking about reducing the revenue of the state, which has been the subject of discussion of this bill in this Chamber, too. Indeed, the draft provides for EUR 15,4 million in 2012 and EUR 32.4 million in 2013 for State expenditure and local government revenue. This is the cost for the state. Consequently, this is a situation where the state should seek additional measures to balance or improve the government budget position. We can't get over it or around it, we want it or we don't. So we need to start thinking about what sources of cover we should find. Is this a step-by-step income tax or a cut in other costs? A few weeks later, the Social Democrats also presented an idea of what it might look like. Our group is not of the opinion that we should apply progressive income tax now. This is already making it very difficult for us to have a further debate, as are the many other possible revenue increases or additional cuts that the Social Democrats have foreseen. It is very difficult to talk when there is no real source of cover unless there is a common agreement and a common understanding. For a moment, I will stop at the economic situation. In 2004 local governments received EEK 5.5 billion, compared with 9.5 billion in 2010. It's a four-billion-dollar gap during this time. It is even more important to look at this percentage, which always gives a better picture. This represents a 1.7-fold increase between 2004 and 2010. For better comparison, the consumer price index, or inflation, should also be seen. The consumer price index has increased 1.4 times over this period. I would point out that receipts have increased 1.7 times, consumer price index, or inflation 1.4 times. What does that mean? This means that inflation growth has been lower and local authorities' income tax growth has been higher. This means that local authorities have been better able to carry out their tasks than in 2004 in a particular case. Thirdly, I am talking about the Equalisation Fund. The state budget has, as you know, a measure in the form of a compensatory fund at some point in time. It is mainly used for local authorities that are unable to perform their tasks. It also allows an individual approach and has led to a situation where several local authorities... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U170	... collects private income tax essentially 100%. There are also such local governments in Estonia. I would like to mention separately from this remote control that there are a number of other sources of support for local authorities, in addition to the part of income tax. In 2012, the state budget has earmarked EUR 146 million for the development of local government infrastructure, as well as environmental investments and money from the sale of emission quotas. This debate, which was in the meantime, that money such as this is a buffer bill and that the local government cannot use it itself, is wrong in the sense that money goes to the local government. In my opinion, it is not the person specifically managing the money that matters, but I think the question is that the money directed at local governments specifically improves some public institution, such as school, kindergarten, etc. I think it is important, not the one who specifically decided to use the money. I would point out that in 2012, EUR 1.25 billion is earmarked for investments in Estonia, which is 28% more than this year. A very large part of this money goes to local governments. Don't miss it! If you look at the next year, it is true that the Ministry of Finance has planned an increase in personal income tax income. As you can see, some of this goes to local governments as well. I think this is very important information. It has also been through this debate that when we talk about other investments, investment on local roads is 40% higher than this year. This represents nearly EUR 5,7 million. Returning to the beginning of my speech, I say, of course, you can always discuss whether this percentage could be 11.93 or 12.0 or some third size. We're still getting to whatever it is or not wanting it to come at the expense of something. This is where the political debate is. What are we making some kind of investment for? It is very easy to say that I want one thing, another thing and a third thing, but there must always be a real responsibility behind these words. Several people here quoted me. I said that there is a right to make proposals, but there must also be a responsibility and a responsibility. Let us be honest if we want to raise people's income tax and we want to take more money out of their wallets. This is the place of political choice. To conclude, the IRL is currently not supporting this draft and we are expressing this opinion in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U171	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U172	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U173	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go over what the main rapporteur, Mrs Vasiliyev, said about why this bill is needed and why it is very necessary. But speaking of whether we have been honest about what comes at the expense of what, I must say that we have done this absolutely honestly. The complex amendment on our budget is completely public and is visible to everyone. It is about social democratic priorities, including the increase in child benefits, the increase in teachers' pay, the improvement of the situation in local governments. Of course, we have also shown the sources of cover. It is true that about EUR 15 million in volume represents about one-seventh of the Socialist complex amendment. If the government had taken a completely unprecedented step and presented the draft state budget before us in May, for example, then we could certainly have made an amendment to the budget in June, in parallel with this draft. Unfortunately, as probably all previous speakers are well aware, the government normally and according to the law will only present the draft budget before us in September. Much has been said here about whether the draft is compatible with the Rules of Procedure, the Basic Budget Act and the General Procedural Rules. I'm sure it is. It has been said which party is best prepared for tax theory. At the same time, the representatives of this party here are talking very strangely about how changing the share of income tax in the state budget and the local government budget means some additional expenditure for the state. Ladies and gentlemen, No, it doesn't. True, this means that if the share of income tax received by the municipality's budget is increased and the share of income tax received by the state budget is reduced, the future revenue projections will change and this will enable smaller expenditures to be planned for the future. Just as at the time, when the percentage of the tax due to the municipal budget was reduced, municipalities had to reduce their forecasting of their income and accordingly reduce planned expenditure. Indeed, this draft budget does not concern the budgetary balance, because we know that the budgets of both the state budget and local authorities are equally included in the calculation of the balance of the public budget. This means that if the proportion changes in favour of the local government budget compared to the current one, the public budget balance will not in itself be affected, unless the State plans more expenditure than the revenue allows. It's confirmed by the coalition, they don't love or practice. It is extremely strange to hear from this remote control a false piety on the subject that I do not want to dictate to the local authorities how they have to live, how they have to plan their expenses and revenues, it is not up to the local people to decide. The state is making the income base smaller and smaller, taking away revenue, but it says that you probably know best how to live with what's left. That's cute! It is also said that the quota money is flooding to a much greater extent than the tax rate that we propose will increase. That may be true, but I think that the local people are probably looking big in the eyes and with some amazement at how one minister allocates this quota money this year to heat, renovate, switch windows and they are already working there, but the other minister has announced the decision to close some of these depots in March next year. What a promotion of local life! Now that economic growth brings many times more money to the budget than the change in the percentage of income tax that we have proposed. Economic growth is, of course, a great thing, except that part of economic growth must be collected in the form of taxes so that it is reflected in the budget. While the state, with its other hand, constantly reduces the local governments' own resources and reduces this part of the income tax received by local government budgets, economic growth alone cannot compensate for this in any way. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U174	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U175	The question of whether we're optimists and if we're optimists is what gives us the basis for optimism. It would certainly be the greatest basis for optimism to listen to the Prime Minister's speeches, but we have heard them long enough not to fall for optimism so easily. However, I think that the structure of the expenditure planned by the government and the numbers of growth or decline or stagnation show that ministries are also significantly optimistic about the future. Thus, the government considers that the Ministry of Defence, for example, has enough money to increase spending by 22% next year, while the Minister of Education states that he does not have the money to raise teachers' salaries. We're gonna make it back to square one. The key word is priorities. It is not a question of whether the expected growth will allow for some or other expenditure. Of course, expenditure and revenue must be balanced, or at least in a position close to balance, but we are not talking about balance in the budget for next year. However, it is within the power of the government and, above all, the Riigikogu to determine the priorities and expenses that we believe are important for the development of the Estonian state in the short term as well as in the long term. The financial capacity of local governments, the capacity of local authorities to carry out the tasks assigned to them by law, including the Constitution, must be the priority expenditure from the point of view of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-08_U176	Thank you very much to all the waitresses. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 74 at first reading. We have to vote this through. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party 74. Please take a stand and vote. There are 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 33 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The draft has been rejected at first reading. Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 12.34 p.m.
