ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, first the presence check! 37 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 64 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U2	Let's start with the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, since there are quite a few registered issues today, we agree that there are two locally registered issues. The first question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! The recent Human Development Report notes that Estonia has supported the desire of young families to have children, with very large financial allocations, but has not significantly improved the chances of families raising their children in Estonia. However, emigration is the most intense among young people. 'In Tallinn alone, nearly 200 students in the 10th grade gave up upper secondary school education. The social and economic reasons that lead the most to young people out of school,' writes today's Estonian Päevaleht. Working poverty and fear of failing to provide children with a full childhood and providing proper education will force young families with children to leave Estonia. My question is: what is the government going to do to alleviate poverty in families with children?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U4	Thank you. When another human development report appeared and I read it with pleasure, someone told me that Ansip was like a Mayan boy in a candy store when he saw the human development report. I have read this report word for word, line, page, and I find it even unpleasant to read, because it is a praise song for Estonia, I would like to get more criticism. It doesn't look like me, but it does. Compared to former fate mates, but also compared to our Baltic counterparts, Estonia has been doing very well. If you are talking about emigration, then, of course, yes, it is a problem that Estonia is being driven out of Estonia for economic reasons, but we have been best able to keep our people at home compared to our fellow fates. Poverty is certainly also a problem. But once again, I would like to congratulate the honourable Riigikogu for helping the Riigikogu to significantly reduce poverty in Estonia by approving budgets by adopting laws. I dare confirm once again that relative poverty in Estonia has significantly decreased over the last ten years. The uneven distribution of income has also decreased considerably in Estonia over the last ten years. In 2000, we had a difference of 6.3 times between the income of the 20% upper group and the income of the lower group of beneficial owners, and now it is five times exactly the European Union average.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U5	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! An in-depth analysis of the Estonian social programmes published by the OECD in May 2010 showed that the small amount of money allocated to social benefits reaches the pockets of people who are quite well-off instead of those who really need help. Five of the richest groups of people will receive 59% of all taxpayers' money to support families, while statistics show that the majority of children are growing in five of the poorest groups. The following are victims of 450 kroon school allowance at the beginning of the school year, the tax-free income of the father or mother on the first child, the partial cancellation of the parent's student loan, the care allowance for the sick child, the sickness allowance was cut from 100% to 80%. My question is this: when will the time come when government departments will start to notice poverty in a large number of families and instead of cuts, will start to support families with children?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U7	Thank you. I dare say that government departments have certainly noticed that poverty is a problem in Estonia. I believe that also those members of opposition parties who have voted in favour of national budgets in recent years have noticed that there is a poverty problem in Estonia and that national budgets are helping to solve this problem very effectively. The statistics unambiguously assure us that, while social transfers in previous years have helped to reduce poverty, usually by 9.1 to 9.2 percentage points, in times of crisis, I am thinking of 2009; in this respect, statistical data are available; this was a reduction of 13.8 percentage points. Thus, especially in times of crisis, every cent that has been used for social purposes has been counted in Estonia, and we can indeed say that the money that we have had at our disposal has been used much more effectively during the crisis than before the crisis. And it has to be said that there has been more money. Despite the loss of revenue in the crisis, we have had more money for social needs in times of crisis than in boom years. Social protection costs typically increased from 12-13% of GDP in 2009 to 19.8%. Government expenditure on health and social protection as a percentage of total expenditure increased from 39% in 2002, for example, but 40% have always been close to 47% in 2009. So the trend is good.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U8	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U9	I would point out that in the previous composition of the Riigikogu, the Social Democrats submitted a draft in which they wished to bring the parental benefit ceiling down to three times the average salary for two and increase the allowance for a single parent child for this money. The allowance for a single parent child has remained constant for more than ten years, which is EUR 19, and this money could have raised it. Single - parent children also live in the greatest poverty, 38% of them. If you go further from here, the Social Democrats have submitted a draft to the Riigikogu procedure, which is intended to triple child support, i.e. increase from 19 euros to nearly 60 euros. This bill passed the first reading in the spring. However, if, now in the autumn, I have tried to put this draft on the agenda twice in the Committee on Social Affairs, then the government departments have, like one man, opposed it. As I understand it, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U10	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U11	... an increase in child support is not on the agenda of government departments. The question is this: Mr Prime Minister, what would you buy a child for EUR 19?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U12	What do I say to that? It would be sad if he had only that EUR 19, but if you multiply it by three, there wouldn't be much less sadness. I would say, after your question or your long introduction, that the efficiency of using public money increased exponentially after the Social Democrats left the coalition. This is a fact which is also confirmed by statistics. In the Human Development Report, Estonia has also been repeatedly criticised for the fact that our share of social expenditure as a percentage of GDP remains below the average level of the European Union. I would complain to the Human Development Report, for example, that they have not pointed out how effectively these funds have been used in Estonia to solve social problems. But if we had gone down the road offered by the Social Democrats, I have, for example, the last Ivari Padar signed document that he submitted to the government, part of it here today, it is a budget strategy, then the government sector should have been in deficit with 16.746 billion kroons this year, deficit and deficit of social security funds would have been 13.6 billion kroons. Perhaps the Greek problems would have existed here in the most genuine form on the ground, we should not have started looking far into exactly what these problems are all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U13	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Tuus. Heljo Pikhof, it has been good practice for us to have a key issue and two specific questions. So please, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U14	I would like the Prime Minister to answer the question, but not talk about the paper he has taken with him and what he likes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U15	Thank you. I think the Prime Minister heard the question. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U16	Thank you. Prime Minister! After all, the OECD analysis mentioned today highlighted the problem of poverty separately and the risk factors for increasing poverty in Estonia still exist at present. We know that our real wages have fallen for more than two and a half years in a row, inflation has been the largest in Europe for a long time. If we look at poverty, the payment of income support has multiplied, in four years we have tripled the number of people living below the poverty line. Do you not think all of these are threats that poverty can take on an even greater scale?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U17	Thank you. The latest trends, when we compare the first half of this year with the first half of last year, confirm that the number of people living in absolute poverty is also decreasing. But when it comes to relative poverty, there has been only one country in the European Union in the last ten years where inequality in the distribution of income has decreased, and this country is Estonia. There are two other countries where the decline has been marginal, but in all 24 other countries the inequality in income distribution has increased, including our northern neighbours. It is not true, then, that we constantly come to the poor, that the rich are getting richer, and that the poor are becoming poorer. It is true that, of course, the share of people living in absolute poverty increased during the crisis, but it would also be difficult to expect that, in a crisis where an accident hits almost everyone, the overall wealth would increase, it would be completely illogical. That's why the crisis is because it's bad. I see the future in relatively good shades. When it comes to the relative poverty of children, Estonia is right in the centre of the European Union in this respect, with 13 countries on one side and 13 on the other. We have no reason to teach anyone and, to be honest, we have no reason to be very ashamed of where we are in comparison with other countries of the European Union. But, of course, there is a problem, the government has been dealing with the problem all along, and I repeat again, the Riigikogu, at least those members who have voted in favour of the budget, have deliberately dealt with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U18	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U19	Thank you. Prime Minister! I have a suggestion for you. If you go home tonight and there is one moment left, you seem to have, if you have read the report, take out today's verbatim and read it again at home tonight. Tell me, how can economic stratification in Estonia be reduced, when the number of people living below the poverty line has tripled in the last three years, prices have increased by 30%, wages have decreased by up to 30% and 380,000 pensioners in Estonia no longer remember the rise in pensions, they cannot catch up with prices? And you are saying that economic inequality has decreased! Well, how can that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U20	Thank you. I have the same suggestion for you: if you go home tonight, take a verbatim and read it with thought! And then the same suggestion I made in the previous Question Time: visit the homepage of Statistics Estonia, talk about these data! I urge you to also find the time to read the Human Development Report, and you will learn how this has proved possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U21	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U22	The next question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U23	Thank you. Mr Parts, thank you very much. My question concerns the preliminary agreement concluded in spring between two private companies, Ekspress Group and Eesti Meedia, with the state company Eesti Post. The wording of the agreement was that Eesti Post will purchase AS Express Post, owned by these private companies. This preliminary agreement was now vetoed by the Competition Authority, saying that they do not believe that such a merger should take place. Obviously, such a pre-contractual agreement would also have to have your approval. Can you explain when two years ago it was decided to open the Estonian postal market, why did you approve such a business transaction this spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U24	Thank you. Basically, I still think that Estonian Post and Express Post copy each other, copy the mail carrier network and actually damage the consumer most. That's the problem! At the same time, this case shows quite figuratively that the Competition Authority is independent, making its independent economic decision with clear arguments. I think this is a very important assurance in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U25	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U26	Thank you. It is obvious that a private company wants to get rid of Express Post AS, whose turnover has decreased. The press shows that the company was initially sold to a company such as Itella Corporation in Finland, which said that the price was too high. Why was the Estonian state company prepared to buy such a company at such a high price?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U27	Thank you. Itella's position on the postal market cannot be commented on, but without going into the details, it can be said that Eesti Post's investment at the price level agreed for Express Post would have paid for itself in 5 to 7 years. Just in case, one more time from the background. The story is that Express Post is in some ways like a newspaper distribution shop, which does not in itself seek profit, and in those cities where Express Post carries newspapers, you can see the situation that at 6.50 an express post mailman will come and 6.55 an Estonian Post employee will come and bring in advertising materials and some of the remaining simple letters. You can even understand that this is about the same situation as we had a few years ago in a garbage dump, where three garbage trucks served one street at a time, each picking up a trash can and then driving to the next lot. This economic uneconomic nature is paid by the consumer. In this case, the market for postal companies is in fact in the same situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U28	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U29	You mentioned that Express Post does not seek profit but distributes press publications. In this case, it is actually also a question of the role of Eesti Post. In a very large number of countries, one country is seen as an important infrastructure, with mail reaching outside the attraction centres, also available in forest villages. Do you think it is right that Eesti Post sees itself only as a profit making company and does not consider it important to have access to postal services in distributed spaces?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U30	These two things must not rule out each other. Estonian Post must be a profitable, self-paying company, but on the basis of today's Estonian laws and public agreements, Eesti Post is also a universal postal service provider. This is the service you are talking about, so that every village can receive the pages, letters and other items exactly during the days provided for in the Estonian Postal Act and in the European Union Universal Postal Service Standard. In order for the universal postal service to be provided and the company to remain profitable at the same time, the Postal Act, as you know, also includes a "support mechanism" whereby other postal companies operating on the market pay the Estonian Post for this service in a certain part, depending on their economic performance. This system works to a large extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U31	I would now like to ask two questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U32	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I still have no idea why Eesti Post wanted to buy Express Post in the first place, because it is known that Express Post had and continues to have a clear plan to leave the mail delivery market. Why would you buy a company that wants to leave the market? The purpose of the purchase could have been to increase the market share, but if the company leaves the market, this market share will be distributed anyway, and Eesti Post as the largest postal carrier has hope for the largest part of it. Please explain the logic behind the Estonian Post's desire to buy Express Post in the first place.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U33	Thank you. You know these Express Post plans, of course, more precisely than I do. I don't know them, it's a private company, and how do I know what their longer-term plans are? From the point of view of Eesti Post, as I repeat, the acquisition of Express Post, which, from the point of view of the Competition Authority, is not in line with the understanding of the competitive situation, is a profitable decision. I was trying to describe more or less what it was about. The same postman who comes five minutes later would also carry the Postimees, Eesti Päevaleht, Eesti Ekspress and a few more pages, if you want, and there will be an increase in the market share of the Estonian Post. This is, of course, in the interests of the Estonian Post! If you look at it from the consumer's point of view, the consumer will finally pay for both of them, and that is why we are actually in a position, as you know, where the Competition Authority will probably also accept the 10-cent increase in the price of a simple letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U34	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Peep Aru, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U35	Thank you. Good minister! What prevents the Estonian Post from operating five minutes before Express Post, not five minutes after Express Post, and thanks to the good quality of the service, could it also take the job of distributing newspapers in larger settlements?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U36	The structure of Express Post's company's owners is hampered. As I have said, Express Post has been established as a joint venture between our main newspapers and magazines, whose work is the timely delivery of these publications. It'll stop you. 80% of Express Post's turnover is its own turnover. It's a long story, it's a story in the mid-1990s. The publishers of the newspapers then had a clear understanding that the quality of the Estonian Post service at the time would not satisfy them. If we now compare Eesti Post as a company with postal companies from other European countries, I dare say that the standard of universal service for Eesti Post is relatively high. The European Commission has carried out comparative studies in this regard, and Estonian Post actually belongs to Europe's top ten in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U37	Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U38	Please, Mr Vasiliev! The question is once again for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U39	Thank you. Good Minister of Economic Affairs! According to the Ministry of Finance, the government plans to grant EUR 150 million of state aid to Eesti Energia on the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Why or for what purpose is this State aid intended to be granted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U40	Thank you. I would like to adjust the question: if this 150 million is correct, you will probably be referring to the financing transaction foreseen in the state budget for next year. This is the decision of the state to expand the share capital so that Eesti Energia can realise its investment programme. The investment programme is mainly aimed at upgrading electricity generation capacity, both for oil shale energy and for renewable energy. This is the first state contribution due to the government coalition's view that we do not raise capital from the private market. So it is not state aid in any way, but from the point of view of the State, it is a financing transaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U41	No further questions. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U42	The next question is for Mr Michal, Minister for Justice, Mr Rein Aidma. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Civil Service Act was, as we know, adopted in 1995; it came into force a little later. According to Estlex, it has been organized about 70 times for various reasons today. The question is that, as we know, there is a new ATS, or new public service law, in the process of being developed. I wonder what stage this development is at and when the bill is due to reach this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U44	Thank you. Indeed, the reform of the public service has been sought for about ten years, and in November it will be ten years since it began. In fact, legends tell us that the draft of this reform was already written in 1996. So this is one of the longer-term reforms in Estonia, which are still pending and which should definitely be done as a rather important thing. What's the status today? The Ministry of Justice has identified five basic choices and we have had our first discussions with the Coalition parties, the Reform Party and the IRL, over these five basic choices. This morning, I discussed the draft law on public service with the IRL Group for an hour. I believe that the choices we have proposed fulfil the clear objective that the new law on public service must be much more dynamic and up-to-date and that the pay system must be more transparent. That is often the cause of criticism. One clear plus is that there will be an opportunity to move within an official body, which will give many officials the opportunity to continue their careers in another place. I'm sure it's very interesting. Now for the next one. The backbone of the bill exists in the main body. If, on the basis of this backbone, we make the draft more precise in a few weeks to months, I would recommence with the Reform Party and the IRL to discuss more details, and then, if the Centre Party and the Social Democrats are interested in this reform, we could also discuss it with them and with the social partners. So I predict that it will be here sometime next year and will enter into force at the beginning of 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U45	A question registered on the ground, Mr Peep Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U46	Thank you. Good minister! Could we then be faced with such a situation in the future that people working under the Civil Service Act are more or less equal to those currently employed on the basis of a contract of employment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U47	Thank you. This is certainly one of the cornerstones of the new Civil Service Act, which has also been described in the Coalition Agreement in such a way that the wage system becomes simpler, the benefits are passed on to wages rather than as hidden forms and hidden bonuses. That is definitely the goal. In my opinion, it is also clear to the authorities that, as the career becomes longer, because the man-work force of man has been increasing, it is possible to perform different duties in the public service, and the person does not have to sit at the same table for 25 or 35 years. I see that this is one objective, and it will certainly give the official body the opportunity to improve itself and develop in life. So this is a win-win situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U48	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U49	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In your reply, you said that the main points of the new ATS, or backbone, are coming to terms. Then it should also be more or less clear how the number of employees regulated by ATS will change. Will this number of employees increase or decrease? Will the number of people who have to behave on the basis of ATS increase or decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U50	I'm sure it will. It is not necessarily a matter of itself, but according to this current backbone, it is still the case that people who really should not be in the public service, who should not be officials, such as ministerial advisers or IT specialists or accountants, are out of the list of these posts. The aim is to draw a line between those covered by the public service. We all know that there are certain operating restrictions in the public service, there is also a ban on strike, which is compensated for by longer leave and other current benefits. Maybe there'll be fewer of them in the future. So the answer to the question is that it will definitely decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U51	The last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U52	Thank you, Madam President. How do you assess whether, as a result of this legislative amendment, the public service will become more competitive than such in the Estonian labour market, or will it lose something in its competitiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U53	Thank you. The aim of the reform is clearly to make it more competitive and more comparable to the private sector. We cannot imagine that when young people make career choices, they choose to sit at a table for the rest of their lives. This is the same idea of rotation as how people can change jobs to compete. The Estonian public service has been said as one of the reproaches that it is closed, that the movement in it is somehow slow. In certain institutions or certain sectors, it has even been said that there must be a nepotism policy to do this so that we can move forward. The new Civil Service Act will certainly improve this situation, make this service more open and also make it more dynamic. I think that the reputation of the public service, the regulation will be better and clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U54	Thank you, Minister. I will conclude on this issue. And the power to get ATS to this hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U55	The next question is from my colleague Neeme the Great to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We are constantly talking about the need to optimise the services provided by the state or, rather, the public sector, whether it concerns education, family doctors, hospital networks, libraries, social welfare or whatever. In organising services, centralisation is often seen as the magic wand that alleviates concerns, and this may also seem to us to be a management economical or management theoretic issue. However, access to services is an issue that affects every person in the country and in the city, and it is clear that public transport within the countryside is playing an increasingly important role in terms of access to services and the quality of life of rural areas in particular. Hence my question: will public financing of public transport within the county next year allow for the execution of contracts with carriers by means of procurement, or will the counties be forced to increase the ticket price, cut the network or do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U57	Thank you. Yes, it does. Tomorrow, the government is likely to close the budget and according to the budget, there will be no reduction in state subsidies for intra-regional bus transport, rather they will grow a little under different circumstances. Despite this, we still want to see a more customer-centred, passenger-centred approach, flexibility and I hope that this direction will continue. People's needs for public transport are rather diverse given our degree of caring and can indeed be met with a flexible, well-designed transport network. Just keeping old bus schedules at old times when the number of passengers is low is expensive. We must find such motivations so that people can really be served, but with reasonable money. But when it comes to this amount of money, unfortunately, the government coalition does not give you the opportunity to write articles in the county papers that the Ansip government does not take care of regional policy. Very takes care of it, we consider it important.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U58	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U59	Thank you. Until last year, the Ministry was busy working on the regional organisation plan for regional public transport, and according to the schedule at that time, the Riigikogu should now process the legislative amendments necessary for implementing the plan. Now I haven't heard anything about it in a while. Have you given up this centralisation plan in the ministry or what further steps are going to be taken with the regional organisation plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U60	Thank you. I wouldn't call it a centralisation scheme, I'd reject that sign. The problem is solved, however, that the people of Estonia are moving not only within the county, but also across the county. The current organisation of public transport is somewhat too regional-centred. Indeed, we have a draft law on public transport with which we hope to reach the Riigikogu in November and which gives more flexibility to better plan and plan public transport. This certainly does not mean that some decision-making position is lost at county level or that decision-making is concentrated in Tallinn far from it. I must honestly admit that as Minister for Economic Affairs, for example, I do not want to make sure that the bus goes from Kihelkonna to Kuressaare at exactly the time when this Kihelkonna aunt wants to reach Kuressaare. I really don't! I would like these matters to be resolved on the ground somehow. What, though, is the problem? As a former governor of the country, you know perfectly well that since the money comes from here, usually at the level where the money is simply distributed, you don't really think that the money is limited. We are trying to get this order in place so that the money is counted at every level, and we are also interested in increasing the ticket revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U61	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U62	As regards the allocation of funds on the ground, since the system of awarding contracts to contracting authorities has changed in recent years, the State, as a public service contracting authority, must guarantee that its costs are covered, these contracts are very clear. There are also financing formulas on how the transit tariff is set, and these tariff calculations show that for the following year, the dose of public transport in some counties should increase significantly by tens of percent. Let me ask you another question: will next year's money allow contracts with carriers to be carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U63	Once again, at national level, it should be possible. I do not have a detailed overview of the individual contracts to which you refer, they must then be looked at in order. I don't see any reason to worry here. In my opinion, however, the key issue remains that we need to look at the changing needs of passengers, to motivate businesses to serve better, so that there are more passengers and thus more revenue. The pressure I feel all the time on county public transport is only pressure on Ansip, or the Ansip government, to give more money, you don't have to earn your revenues. This is not the way to do things in Estonia! We need to make sure that 50% is the maximum that we can count on, 50% must come from our own revenues. All the contracts that the counties have entered into have to guarantee this somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U64	I would now like to ask two questions registered on the spot. First of all, Mr Kõiv.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! If you grasp the word, the Ansip government has, as we know, been very successful in selling Kyoto allowances, and for that we are about to get green buses. When can these buses reach the Estonian routes, and when and what impact will this have on the public transport subsidy paid from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U66	Thank you. The first buses should arrive at the beginning of the second half of next year. All this procurement should be done, if I'm not mistaken now, in the first half of next year. The budgetary impact should be that the capital component should decrease and, if we do not reduce subsidies in this respect, we could order more bus routes, have bus routes organised and operated or reduce this amount. Unfortunately, I have to say that this capital component, although the number of buses seems to be high, is not very significant, this decrease is nevertheless a certain one-digit percentage. So we will not achieve a very big financial victory, but we will indeed achieve more environmentally friendly and high-quality buses. These buses are new, they are built under certain special conditions, hopefully they will survive well, and this is a sensible investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U67	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U68	The next question is from my colleague, Karel Rüütel, to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Everyone knows that sustainable investment in energy is significantly cheaper than creating new energy capacities. The government has an implementation plan for energy saving since 2007. It is also known that a mid-term review of the 2007-2010 period has been completed in the Ministry, which, in my opinion, shows that, to put it mildly, our situation is relatively poor. We have not fulfilled this plan on the scale that we have set for ourselves, and very many things have not been done. What are you going to do to enable us to achieve the objectives of the energy saving programme better in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U70	Thank you, that's a good question! I would not really agree with the tonality that the government has not achieved its goals. We look at the sum of the amount of energy savings per sector. But all right, I don't want to praise the government at all, the criticism is appropriate. The problem that we have to deal with in terms of energy savings is that our housing fund is the biggest energy saving point. We have open programmes for apartment buildings; we very much want to hope that we will be able to open up such an investment support programme for small houses in the coming months, too, so that these investments are really made and that energy savings will come from there. This is actually the place where it is actually possible to reduce costs. Another thing the government could not foresee in 2007 is the volume of investment that we are currently able to channel into public buildings, that is the same win-win for CO2. So if we look at the realization of these investments, I dare say that the possibilities created by the government actually exceed what was planned in the 2007 energy saving plan. However, from the point of view of energy saving, I would continue to give priority to our housing fund and the need to help, to support housing associations to undertake these projects. This cannot be done by the government, because we know that Estonia is in a relatively unique situation in this sense, that 97%, perhaps even more, of the housing fund is privately owned. We do not have a public or municipal housing fund and this is not an investment with a fingertip, we must motivate owners and cooperatives to make this investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U71	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U72	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister's thoughts are moving in the same direction as my thoughts. In fact, one solution is the creation of energy service companies. This would significantly accelerate the renovation of buildings in order to make them more energy-efficient. Figuratively speaking, we need companies that come to people that say that we will make the necessary investments, we will make your homes warmer, we will switch windows, we will heat your facades in eight years, you will pay us our electricity and heat bills today, and in eight years, people's bills will figuratively decrease by 50%. Right now, we're renovating about 1% of the buildings, so it's gonna take us 100 years before we can make a round. The government has said yes that this is an important priority for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U73	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U74	What is the point, why have things not progressed so that we could have created these companies at this rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U75	Once again, about what the government has done. We have, first of all, a support programme. When apartment buildings are renovated, we support up to 35% of the cost of the renovation project, the government puts 35% of the money on its side. Secondly, in order for the project to be of high quality, we have such a measure that 90% of the cost of the project will be borne by the State through KredEx. Thirdly, we have a measure in which, in cooperation with the banks, we offer a loan that is cheaper than market conditions. Three real things! In addition, we have softer measures: advisors, consultants (mainly through KredEx) to make these things work. We have worked quite hard to ensure that banks, real estate managers and construction companies really see the opportunity here to offer more active market services. So there is a certain place for private companies, too, and they must be encouraged. But I believe that one bottleneck remains the situation in our housing associations, the speed of decision making, the conviction that this thing will pay off, etc. There are such obstacles to everyday life. In general, if we look at statistics, in the last four years, the volume of renovations is increasing both by number of housing associations and by housing. The trend in growth doesn't quite satisfy us. We will continue to work towards encouraging the owners to make these decisions and to invest in their home-cost savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U76	Please, Mr Karel Rüütel, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U77	Thank you. I am simply commenting on the fact that one party, which is very clearly lacking, is precisely the creation of such a legal environment. Perhaps this is one aspect that would be worth paying significantly more attention to, and also natural to the provision of various loan guarantees through KredEx, etc. But it is this legal environment that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U78	I don't think that was a question. But I am willing to cooperate here with the Minister of Justice and who is preventing you from coming up with some initiatives alongside other work. Indeed, it seems to me that the provisions governing housing associations and apartment ownership would make sense to review precisely how, in such a 'democratic organisation', it would still be possible to make decisions so that they should not be left to one person or another because of opposition or otherwise. This complexity of decision-making is the main thing I hear from housing company managers. Here maybe there's something to regulate with the law. However, we must admit that this is very human. Apartment cooperatives are democratic organisations; we cannot say that one or two can make decisions and the rest are watching. You have to achieve a certain majority, it's just natural. Mr. Michal says he's got something going on, so Mr. Knight, you can calmly not make your proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U79	Two questions registered on the spot, please. Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U80	Thank you. Good Minister, first of all, thank you very much that the government cares very much about the regional development of Estonia! I hope you didn't joke and you meant it because it's really important. The works have not confirmed this so far, but maybe there will be a change. Estonia has committed itself that by 2020, the share of renewable energy will be 25%, including that the share of renewables in heating and cooling is 38%, electricity production 17.6% and transport 9.9%. The aim is very noble, but if I look at the action plan or if I look for concrete support mechanisms to achieve these objectives, I must admit that I do not find them, and I am therefore very hesitant that these objectives will be met. Are you telling me that everything is in the best condition and that there is also a very concrete action plan in addition to the objectives, how these will be achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U81	It is. However, I would like to correct your ironic remark on regional policy. It is very important to us that it is reasonable to live anywhere in Estonia. In my opinion, if you look at where we have come from with our agricultural policy, regional policy, if you walk around Estonia and open your eyes, you will see that, despite everything, the perspective of the country is still different from that of the person in front of you. At least I believe it. As far as renewable energy targets are concerned, the situation is very simple. In the heating and heating industry, I see no problem at all. Given the investments already made in cogeneration plants, also given that the Monopoly Control Act will create an additional incentive to build cogeneration plants in smaller cities, where it makes economic sense, I see no problem at all. This objective may have been almost achieved by now. With regard to electricity, we will exceed the target twice if we take today's position, 2011, but we are talking about the target for 2020. With regard to electricity, I also see such a problem that, given the support for renewable energy and the fact that renewable energy is currently somewhat more expensive for consumers, both domestic consumers and businesses, I think that this rate should be more linearly delayed until 2020. Where I see a problem, it's transport fuel. This is a pan-European problem. What have we done? We're doing a lot of research right now to see what we can do here. We know these 'excellent' initiatives concerning biodiesel, its incorporation into fuel. In contrast, we have gone down this road that we are doing a completely unique electromobility program, wanting to find some kind of sustainable solutions. So the problem is definitely transport fuel. In two other respects, I do not see a problem, but transport fuel is the same problem as all over Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U82	The last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U83	Thank you, Madam President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! Energy saving and reducing carbon monoxide emissions are, in fact, a matter of humanity's survival, a very important issue. As far as carbon monoxide emissions and energy savings are concerned, not only housing associations are important, but also urban traffic, for example, where traffic congestion is one of the biggest causes of damage. The biggest traffic jam in Estonia is Tallinn and one of the biggest traffic jams in Tallinn is the Haaberst ring. At least two times the city of Tallinn has turned to the Ministry you manage to get help from the Structural Funds, because the reconstruction of the intersection costs at least 1/7 of the city budget and the city cannot do this on its own. The aid has been refused both times. Is there any hope, though, that we will take this matter into common hands for all people?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U84	I am flattered by this question, Mr Vasilyev. Let's talk about these intersections of Tallinn. In 2007, I visited your superior, his Highness, Mr Savisaare, several times and offered him the reconstruction of three intersections, Ülemiste, Russalka and Haaberst. Not hard or hard until we finally pulled out, like a molar, the upper intersection where the work is now in progress. So my only message is: it is only about the voters of Tallinn. I am absolutely convinced that if there is any change in the city of Tallinn in 2013, there will be fresh air, no matter who is in the government, it will certainly be reasonable to include these intersections in the next transport investment programme for 2014 and beyond. These intersections, I repeat, are not behind the country. I might add that we also had railway crossings there: Pääsküla railway crossing, Hiiu railway crossing, Nõmme railway crossing. The cars are known to wait until the train leaves, stand behind the barrier, and the carbon monoxide, the carbon dioxide, goes into the air. The city of Tallinn gave up these projects in the same way. They were even in the government's orders, but we were forced to take them down. This is the actual situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U85	Thank you, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U86	Next question. Please, Mr Aas, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U87	Thank you. Prime Minister! I return to the first point of Question Time, which was about the Human Development Report. Indeed, if you read this material, this year's report is extremely positive and there are few areas or trends that would have gone worse in Estonia over the last decade. But I would like to ask you what your observations are just as compared to Latvia and Lithuania, why Estonia has been more successful and whether media assessments have suddenly been too much for our southern neighbours.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U88	Thank you. It seems to me that the southern neighbours have been harmed. This human development report repeatedly highlights Estonia's success story and the background is Latvia and Lithuania's backwardness. But I think that the authors, Professor Marju Lauristin, have already corrected this wrong image, now that the presentations of the Human Development Report have also taken place in Latvia and Lithuania. The right image could be that all three Baltic states have developed very quickly over the last 20 years, compared to their former destiny mates, this development has been the fastest in three Baltic states. Yes, indeed, in Estonia he has been a little faster than in Latvia and Lithuania, but the human development report should not be interpreted as meaning that we have gone out of the way and others are far behind. This is the success story of the three Baltic states, which is bound between the covers of the last Human Development Report.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U89	No further questions. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U90	We can ask a very quick question. Please, Mr Remo Holsmer, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Rumor has it that the government should approve the state budget for next year at tomorrow's meeting. My question concerns pensions, including the concerns raised at the beginning of Mr Leng's Question Time that pensions have not increased for several years. How much will the pension rise next year, and will there be any increase? Can you tell us today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U92	Thank you. Of course I can, because I know that there are no people in the government who would think that pensions should not increase by 4.4% next year. Estonia acted differently to pensioners in this crisis than most Member States of the European Union did. We decided to increase pensions by 5% in times of crisis and, unfortunately, Mr Lenki is no longer in the hall, the number of pensioners living at risk of poverty and poverty has fallen significantly. At the same time, pensions have had to be reduced in a number of EU Member States in times of crisis. In some countries, such as Greece, this is still a very topical issue. Estonia will be able to allow a 4.4% increase in pensions next year. And since we had an economic growth of 9.5% in the first quarter of this year, 8.4% in the second quarter, this good growth will allow us to hope that in the coming years, pension growth will be stronger than in 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U93	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. As Question Time has ended, I thank the honourable Members of the Riigikogu for asking questions and the members of the government and the Prime Minister for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U94	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the second working week session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, It's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U95	Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Democratic Party Group initiates a draft law supplementing the State Budget Act. It is as if we are deciding that we, together with the other euro area countries, are participating in mechanisms designed to safeguard the financial stability of the euro. Unfortunately, the wording of the current State Budget Act does not allow the Estonian state to guarantee these obligations in this form. The possibility of guarantee is only possible if the Republic of Estonia is either the owner of the majority shares or the sole owner of the shares and, unfortunately, in the mechanism proposed, we do not have that possibility. Therefore, our proposal is to supplement the law with an article that would allow the Republic of Estonia to guarantee these sizes, provided that the state owns minority shares there, but only if the majority shares of this company belong to the Member States of the European Union. I am also talking about the concerns of the Minister of Finance so that we are not embarrassed. The fact that we are handing over the draft today gives the Riigikogu board the opportunity to adopt the draft today, the Government of the Republic will be able to support the draft tomorrow at 10 a.m. and the Riigikogu Finance Committee will be able to refer the draft to the first reading at one o'clock next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U96	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will decide this procedure quickly. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of Private Schools Act and other Acts, initiated on 19 September, of which the commission is the Committee on Culture; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights Act, launched on 19 September, of which the commission is the Committee on Rural Affairs; in the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated on 19 September, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus, and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Colleagues! Please, let's do the presence check! Currently 79 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U97	Yesterday, the debate on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity was unfinished at the time of the presentation of questions by the representative of the commission. I would like to ask Mr Sõerdi, my colleague in the chair, to whom Mikhail Stalnukhin wanted to ask a question next. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U98	Thank you. Dear Co-Rapporteur, There were two theories about your speech and your answers last night. One of them is that the price of electricity can be regulated (for my part I add that it is possible to reduce the price by supporting consumers, including employers), and the other is that the Government of the Republic does not, in principle, want to do so. Since these ideas, when they sound together, are quite incomprehensible to the voter, maybe you can specify how they work together?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U99	Thank you for your question. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the proposed draft, as can be understood, and as the explanatory memorandum states, is to reduce the additional burden of the projected increase in electricity prices. Here I stick to my opinion, which I also expressed yesterday, that the share of excise duty in electricity price components is rather low, that is 4,4%, and the reduction of excise duty does not have a significant impact on the price. I have official information from the Ministry of Finance here. They say that a reduction in the rate of excise duty from EUR 4 per megawatt-hour to EUR 1 as foreseen in your draft would mean a fall in electricity prices of 3.8% for consumers and an impact on consumer prices of 0.15%. At the same time, we know that the price of electricity is influenced by many other factors: the interest of Nordic and possibly third-country electricity producers in providing electricity on our market, the volume of the electricity market here, as well as the capacity of grid connections and the price of CO2 in the European Union as a whole in the greenhouse gas trading system. So there's a lot of components here. What you're offering is a very small proportion. Once again, I stress that tax policy is a completely wrong instrument for influencing the price of energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U100	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U101	Thank you, Madam President. I have a very simple question. If electricity prices are reduced by reducing excise duty, will the general costs of institutions, such as libraries, hospitals, museums, schools, kindergartens, etc., be reduced as well as commodity prices? Wouldn't it make sense, especially in local governments, because their wallet is quite thin to provide services?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U102	I think that the impact of your draft on kindergartens and municipal institutions is of little importance, but, as a result of your draft, the state budget would lose EUR 26 million in tax revenues per year, which is quite a significant amount. I made such a comparison yesterday that, if we add here what the country is losing in terms of a reduction in VAT, this could be the same order of magnitude that educators are seeking to raise their wages. The state budget has already taken account of these amounts and 26 million euros are certainly important for the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U103	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U104	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! The Kumus Energy Forum was held yesterday. There, one of the leaders of Stora Enso, a large international timber group, reported that they have timber industries from the Arctic Ocean to the Polish border, and the most expensive electricity is in the Estonian industry. Have you discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs how tax policy on electricity, apart from domestic consumers, affects industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U105	Thank you. I have different data. I don't know what you're referring to. I'm referring to the details of this presentation recently made by Sandor Liive. This showed that the price of electricity in Estonia for both individual consumers and industrial users is one of the lowest in the European Union. Once again: if we look at the situation on the fuel market, the fluctuations in fuel prices, this has nothing to do with taxation. Other factors affect energy price formation. For example, among the components of electricity prices, we also have a higher renewable energy fee than excise duty. So once again, your proposal is not aimed correctly. Tax policy cannot fight the rise in electricity prices. The proportion of excise duty is low, it is not excessive in comparison with other countries of the European Union, there are many higher rates of excise duty, so I consider the impact of the reduction of excise duty to be insignificant. But, of course, we did not discuss the proposal made by Stora Enso in the Commission yesterday at the Energy Forum.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U106	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U107	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I think we are wondering, in contrast, whether the cost of electricity should be such a strong state budget, because it affects the competitiveness of entrepreneurship and people's daily lives. As we know, in neighbouring countries, this rate of excise duty is minimal. Should we not take a step in this area with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U108	Thank you for your question. Let us look at those neighbouring countries where excise duties are minimal, as you said. In Finland, the rate of excise duty is EUR 7 for business customers or companies and EUR 17 for households, EUR 0.54 for industrial customers in Sweden, EUR 30.7 for households, and lower rates for Latvia and Lithuania. The picture is very different. As I said, Estonia's own tax rate is certainly not the country with the highest excise duty on electricity in the European Union. So much for comparison.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U109	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U110	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned that tax policy is not the instrument to regulate electricity prices. What, then, could it be that the state should regulate the price of electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U111	Thank you. A small country like Estonia cannot fight the rise in energy prices very much. As I said, the price of electricity depends on a lot of components, such as production volumes. We produce more than we spend, but at the same time the price of our region, as the President of Elering said recently, is affected, for example, by the deficit on the Lithuanian and Latvian markets. Competition is also an important issue. As I said, after the opening of the electricity market, the extent to which Nordic energy producers sell electricity to our market, how much third countries can sell electricity, Russia can also be important here, in our market or in our region. Network capacity is also important. Our network operator Elering is planning Estlink 2 construction. This is again important both in terms of security of supply and in the context of electricity prices. So there are a lot of factors here. As I said, the share of renewable energy is, let's say, an order of magnitude greater than the proportion of excise duty. There's a lot of these components. But the proposal to start influencing the price of electricity through excise duty is the worst option. In the Commission, the Minister explained very thoroughly to us that there is a consensus at the level of the European Union finance ministers that energy prices will not be reduced. Humiliation would be the most formula for the path. He referred to Christine Lagarde, who is also a socialist.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U112	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U113	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! In your previous life, you have given me the impression of a man who makes things clear to himself, but unfortunately, you know very little about the price of electricity. If, as former Minister of Finance, you are saying that taxes do not affect the final price of electricity, please note that taxes on domestic consumers account for one third of the price, which is lower for industrial users. Why do you come here to answer if you haven't made your point?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U114	Thank you. I think we just have very different concepts of tax policy. I fully agree with the government's tax policy aimed at raising taxes on consumption, the use of natural resources and environmental pollution and reducing revenue taxation. I understand that your tax-political understanding is exactly the opposite. I agree with you in this sense that our perceptions of tax policy do not coincide.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U115	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U116	Honourable waitress! I have also always been surprised by the firm conviction that the change in indirect taxes does not affect prices. It looks like absolute knowledge. Raising taxes does not raise prices, and lowering taxes does not bring them down to this iron truth. If, for example, we are now raising some excise duty, it is foreseen that there will be more revenue in the state budget. So where does the money come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U117	It's the excise duty. The impact of this bill, which we have been discussing here for a long time, is not to add more money from excise duties to the state budget, but to withdraw EUR 26 million. Good practice requires that the initiator also identifies the source of the costs. But that's not what the initiator of this bill did. There is talk of the increase in VAT receipts resulting from the increase in electricity prices, but this has nothing to do with the bill. The amounts of VAT increases are already included in the budget. In fact, it is not covered in terms of the cost of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U118	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U119	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I do not quite agree with you that it is such a small amount of money for consumers that there is no need to pay attention to it. But I'm still gonna ask you the next question. If the municipality pays for electricity, plus excise duty, plus VAT, and all this goes to the state, as you said, then by this amount the municipality has less money to provide services. If this money were left to the municipality, it would have a double amount to solve problems in its territory. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U120	I understand that your proposal is to derogate from tax legislation and to exempt certain categories, such as local authorities or their own institutions, from VAT or to set reduced rates for them. That is your view of tax policy. I would rather support this approach, so that tax rates are kept at a relatively reasonable level, but the exceptions and the standard rate are avoided from different rates that create distortions and tax evasion. Ultimately, it does not fulfil the fiscal objective that our tax system has. So our views on tax policy are very different. We can discuss this at length here, but we will certainly not come to a common sense in the principles of tax policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U121	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U122	I got mixed up in the middle of a while. You said that tax policy cannot regulate the price. At the same time, you said that this is why a lot of money will not be collected in the state budget. If the price doesn't fall, where does the money go or who's finally gonna have it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U123	Once again, I will try to explain that energy prices are influenced by a wide range of components. We'll take the fuel market. Fuel prices are affected, for example, by the political situation in the countries exporting crude oil. There's a lot of components here. Tax policy as an influence on energy prices is ineffective; it does not have the desired effect. This savings, which may arise, may not reach consumers at all. However, as far as your question is concerned, of course, this excise duty, which is EUR 4 per megawatt-hour, will be paid into the state budget and will still be important to the state, although this budget may not be very significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U124	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Kaljuvee Central Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U125	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I came here as a representative of the group, but first of all I have to talk about the fact that yesterday, when I introduced this draft here, I owed to the Chamber, both sides, both the opposition and the coalition. You asked what could still be the price of electricity in 2013. I was evasive, and I thought we'd find out in February 2013. But I wasn't quite satisfied with that answer myself, and last night I took out a table from which I looked at what happened to large consumers at the price of electricity last year. Large customers, these are large companies that consume electricity in Estonia, the price of electricity increased from 47 euros per megawatt-hour to 68 euros during the previous year, so it can be said that 60% and slightly more. I dare say to you that the price increase that will come in 2013 will not, in my opinion, be less than this. We all really need to deal with this, but the other way around, we need to understand it. In such a situation, what the Central Party Group has proposed would be a small'revenue' to households or a demonstration of goodwill that the state will come to the aid of the consumer in such a case and help to alleviate the severe price increase. That was actually our main incentive. As regards the figures on expenditure that were proposed here and which did not, in fact, differ much in the draft or in the Ministry's opinion, the 2013 budget has not started to be carried out. I think that these EUR 26 million could have been found. We also gave directions and thoughts here. Indeed, if we look at what Eesti Energia will earn from this price increase in 2013, it is clear that there will be a variety of solutions. But I believe that the members of the coalition also thought about that last night, after this debate. Many of you also attended the Energy Forum, which gave you ideas. So before you press the button, please think and support us! Think positive! The Centre Party Group, which submitted this draft, will certainly vote in favour of the draft being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U126	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Koka, the representative of the Group of the Alliance of Isamaa and Res Publica, on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U127	Good Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft we are discussing today is certainly important, but the members of the Riigikogu should not be misled when introducing the draft. Yesterday, the author of the draft, the good Lembit Kaljuvee, claimed that, with the leadership and support of the ruling parties, the value added tax (VAT) on electricity excise duty and electricity has been raised and that, as if we were looking at the situation until 2013, we had increased the price of electricity more than twice. I have to admit, this argument is completely wrong. Reminder: the last time the proposal to increase electricity excise duty was primarily the Greens, who wanted to draw consumers' attention to the fact that energy can be used much more sustainably. The argument that the price of electricity has been increased more than twice in five years does not hold true. For domestic consumers, the electricity bill has increased on average between 2005 and today at the same rate as the increase in the consumer price index. The increase in the consumer price index over this period has been 31.6% and the final electricity price plus network charges, renewable energy support and all taxes have increased by 35%. So you can't talk about a double appreciation. In this respect, it should be taken into account that neither the renewable energy fee nor the electricity excise duty existed in 2005. Taking purely the price of electricity, it has increased by 14.77% over the last five years, or twice as much as consumer prices in general. According to Eurostat, Estonia is almost the cheapest electricity land for domestic consumers in Europe, but this price is even lower in Bulgaria. The second author's claim was that one hundred per cent of the electricity producing and transferring company in Estonia belongs to the Estonian state, and with the will of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the owner of the company, it is possible to direct the price of electricity to one side or the other, but in recent years the price has unfortunately moved upwards, because the owner's will has been such that electricity is expensive for the consumer, which is why the price has also been raised. Yes, the first part of this statement that Eesti Energia Distribution Network OÜ belongs one hundred percent to the Estonian state is correct. But the claim that electricity is regulated in Estonia to determine the price of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is wrong. The regulated price of electricity cannot be determined in Estonia by any ministry, nor by Eesti Energia. Electricity prices and network charges must be coordinated with the Competition Authority in accordance with the Electricity Market Act. In so doing, the Agency shall examine the law and the methodology drawn up on the basis thereof, always following in detail the costs of the electricity seller or the electricity system operator that is the applicant. The competition authority shall be legally separate and functionally independent from any other public or private entity in accordance with Article 35 of Directive 2009/72/EC on the internal electricity market in the European Union. The claim that the increase in electricity prices is due to the will of the state as owner of Eesti Energia is incorrect. Electricity prices have changed only if, for objective reasons, electricity generation costs, electricity grid costs or electricity taxes have increased. If electricity production costs have decreased, the price of electricity has also been reduced. For example, the price of electricity decreased in 2009, as Eesti Energia was able to meet the environmental requirements for ash dumping and the environmental fee paid for it decreased. Electricity prices fell by 6.4% and, together with network charges, the average electricity bill decreased by 3.6%. In addition, although it is popular to believe that the price of electricity has risen in relation to the dividends of Eesti Energia, this is not true. None of the price changes are linked to dividend payments. According to the electricity price coordination methodology and the law, this cannot be the case. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U128	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U129	According to Statistics Estonia, the average household spent 3.5% of the total annual costs on electricity in 2010. Consumers who do not use electricity directly for heating will spend an average of 2.8% of this budget. According to Eesti Energia AS, the annual electricity bill for consumers using the heating package was five times higher in 2010 than the average consumption of electricity by consumers using other packages. The heating package is estimated to be 5.5% of consumers. For example, transport costs are 11% of the average household budget, while food costs are 24% of the annual expenditure. The impact of electricity price pressure on the overall cost structure of consumers is much lower than, for example, food price pressure. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Our task is certainly to look and find ways for people to save more on home expenses. To this end, a system of grants for the renovation of apartment buildings has been set up and negotiations are under way to implement the system of grants for private houses. More support systems need to be found for the implementation of renewable energy in private and apartment buildings, whether solar cells or wind turbines or the construction of cogeneration plants at boiler houses. Every law that makes it possible to save home expenses is very important, but you always have to look at who or at whose account it is. It is never right to say that saving one's spending is worse than the other or some tax is better than the other. We need to discuss together economically the renewable energy fee and the electricity excise duty and only then make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U130	Thank you very much, Mr Aivar Kokk. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading, we need to vote through this proposal. Dear Riigikogu! I vote on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party 33. Please vote! 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 35 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Bill 33 fell out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U131	The first reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related other laws initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party begins. Please waitress Marko Pomerants, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U132	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good President! You have before you a draft law amending the Commercial Code and other related laws. You're all familiar with this bill, because this bill has been here under the maiden name 9 SE. As we know, in the spring, before the spring session ended, the final vote on this draft was a test by the opposition of the coalition's willingness to stand up for the interests of the Estonian state. But what's not accepted, it can be retabled. The reason for this is because it is a transposition of the directive into our laws. The directive dates from 2009, bears the number 2009/109/EC and was to be transposed into Estonian law by 30 June 2011. As I said, we did not succeed, but I am sure we will be able to do this together in the coming weeks. The draft itself has been dealt with. There is certainly one amendment to the draft which concerns the entry into force of certain paragraphs. Since you are very familiar with the long and comprehensive explanatory statement and all the interest groups were already involved in the drafting process, I will conclude and wish to have this draft deal dealt with in a constructive and rapid manner in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U133	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. There are no questions. Igor Gräzini, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U134	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing else to add. It's a finger. This bill was in front of you, and you understood everything very well. You remember I advised you not to read this bill because there are 120 sections, one of which is more complicated than the other. There, in fact, I emphasise once again, not legally, but purely humanly, a number of technical procedures are being put in place and brought into line with the requirements of the European Union. There's nothing to judge or political, God forbid, there isn't. The Commission examined the draft and decided to send it to its first reading on 20 September 2011 with a proposal to terminate the reading. The deadline for submitting amendments to the Committee on Legal Affairs was set at 3 working days, i.e. 23 September at 4 p.m. Gräzin was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. The decision was made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U135	Thank you very much. But there are also questions for you. Please, Igor, don't leave! Questions. Igor, good colleague! I'm the one who lets you leave.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U136	Okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U137	Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U138	Thank you. I want to ask you about the entry into force of this law. Marko Pomerants has said this quickly, but I want to clarify when this law will come into force. There are many paragraphs. Can we make it as fast as the bill says by 1 October?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U139	That's a good question, as they say. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Nah, it's like the meter's running. Therefore, because we had one less person in the Chamber at the time of the vote (he came in exactly 30 seconds), we still have infringement proceedings. There are no other motives. I swear, if you've read this bill once or twice, you won't get any smarter by third reading. I couldn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U140	Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It was a pleasure to hear that you made the Commission's decision in a consensual manner. However, what was the opposition's attitude towards this draft before consensus was reached at the committee meeting? Were there any indications that they were still in a position to disagree, or have they, in the meantime, just become wiser about this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U142	No, they've never been any kind of... Oh, my God! Everyone agreed right from the start. There's nothing right there, this bill was just reviewed. There are really a lot of technical paragraphs. In short, if there is a transfer of shares, whether the computer vote is valid or not, etc. This kind of stuff. If you say that there's an idea in the back of this, it's just that any organizational structural changes are going to be done with the keys and easier to do with the computer, nothing else. So there is no opposition here. By the way, I don't know who the 52nd guy didn't make it to the hall on time. It could have been one of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U143	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! You don't know who that 52 was. Member of the Riigikogu. But why did the draft, on which consensus was found and which received all the support both in the committee and in the first two readings in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, finally fail?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U145	Got it. As always, all such failures are work done by superiors. The problem still was that our superiors did not warn us how many votes this bill could be passed as a law. We usually have this (I think the opposition also has that) that we are being circled around this place, that there are so many voices needed here. But there was no circle around. A normal member of the Riigikogu does not notice such a thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U146	I think a member of the Riigikogu should pay attention. The next question is from my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U147	Thank you. I noticed you mentioned the bosses. Who are these bosses?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U148	Those who do the work. Here are the leaders of the political groups, deputy leaders, whops and whatever, as in every parliament. Those who organise our day-to-day work and the work of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U149	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U150	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Commission waitress, Can you say that, when we voted on this bill last time and it did not gather 51 votes, that there were in fact much more delegates than 51 people in the Chamber, and that is basically one example of how a draft that does not contain special political choices can sometimes fall victim to the most beautiful policies?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U151	I would say that failure to comply with this bill was such a shock to me as a human being that I was blind in my eyes. I really don't know what happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U152	No further questions. Thank you, Mr Gräzin. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting 75 amendments on 23 September at 4 p.m. The first reading of Bill 75 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U153	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 108 of the Public Service Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kotkas and Eiki Nestor. Mr Nestor, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This draft is not a fundamental work; it can be called a bill of local importance; it is written and presented to you by one of the villagers. The aim is to improve § 108 of the Public Service Act, which refers to the grounds for suspension of the service relationship. Service relationships shall be suspended under the applicable law in the following cases: First of all, on the basis of a written application by an official, if the person or authority having the right to employment agrees to the suspension of the service relationship. It is usually used when an official wants creative rest, for example, wants to write a book, or has a longer trip ahead of him, and there may be other reasons. If the person who recruited him, or the person entitled to do so, agrees, the service relationship will stop. This section contains a number of other, familiar grounds for stopping a service relationship, such as during leave, during incapacity for work, even if an official is a reservist and, as a result of mobilization, cannot perform his duties, or if, for example, he performs other duties, even in Brussels, in connection with the European Union. This list also includes a clause stating that a relationship of service is suspended if an official is illegally required to perform his duties at another post and refuses to perform such duties. It is also a possible driver when the service relationship stops. Our proposal is to supplement this list for a very practical reason; this is a reason taken from life. The requirement to perform illegal duties requires the official to address the person who issued the order to the court, to be absent from work and therefore to claim the unpaid salary. In real life, the parties may also argue with each other to conclude that it is up to the court to decide whether the decision is legal or not. It is agreed that the court is the place where the truth is revealed. The current § 108 does not list any such possibility. In fact, this official should then behave like a person wishing to suspend a creative holiday or any longer employment relationship and be excluded by agreement between the parties. The difference is important because there are two aspects. First of all, as in the case of an employment contract, such a suspension of employment requires the employer to pay social security contributions and the person, for example, is left without health insurance. But the difference is also important in another way. In a small community, people may not be so prone to loss of pay and everything else that comes with it, but want to resolve this dispute in a more reasonable way, but there is no such possibility. If you want to get health insurance, you have to charge a salary anyway, but in a small community, sometimes it's not very clear, and people want to act in a more reasonable way. That is why we have the proposal to supplement point 7, which talks about illegally given tasks and about an official refusing to perform them, with the words 'or if the person or authority having the right to take up the service agrees to the suspension of the employment relationship as a result of a labour dispute'. The adoption of an amendment to this wording also means that the social tax obligation will remain in force for the consent given by the senior official and that the person will not lose anything in social security. So there is nothing big or revolutionary here; it is such a simple, logical amendment taken from life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U155	Thank you, Mr Nestor. Please, a question from my colleague Marko Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U156	Thanks! Is there anything you can do to explain this case to us without mentioning the names? How did you come up with this idea to put together a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U157	This was due to a reduction in the workload of the official recruited under the authority of the official recruited. The employee found that such a reduction of the burden was illegal, the boss again found it to be legal. It was agreed that the court should decide whether to be legal or not. Since there was no other option, this whole story was formalised on the basis of § 108 (1) because the person did not want to take action against the loss of salary, he found that it was not right, it is still his own parish, why fight like this, he is also concerned about how the parish is doing. It took some time from the last local elections until June this year to get the judgment, and the court annulled that decision, which reduced the burden on the official, that is to say, the decision taken by the senior official was considered illegal. The person has not asked for a loss of earnings in the meantime, nor is he going to do so, but he was also out of health insurance during that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U158	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U159	Thank you. Dear waitress, To everyone's information, we in the Commission dealt with this issue and this example in greater detail. It turned out that this official had been an assistant parent in a political capacity. So this is a completely different case. But that's it. My question is as follows. If you look ahead to the perspective, what is your opinion? You are one of the authors of the bill. Would anyone in the future take advantage of it if such a law were to pass through?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U160	No, I don't think bad will play here. We can imagine large institutions with a large number of officials. That is where this dispute is expected to end with the requirement that the order be declared illegal, the loss of pay and everything else. That thing's kind of anonymous there. It's different in a small community. I have had to help sufficiently high-ranking officials on what they have done and what they think is illegal. I must say that in very many cases very high officials, such as a former Director-General of the Office, are concerned not with the loss of wages in court, but with the cancellation of the document signed by the Minister for their release. These cases are different in this respect. At other times, a person's position is such that he or she may not wish to exercise in full the rights arising from the meaning of § 108 of the Civil Service Act, or he or she does not wish to do so because the community is small and it is not understood there. To be honest, there are people who say that they do not go to court against the Estonian state in principle, which is because the Prime Minister was wrong. There have been cases like this. So I don't think there's gonna be any abuse here. Still, it's a different understanding of things. If the person entitled to take up employment in any way admits that the court should decide whether it is right or not, it could fall under the same point as the other provisions enabling the relationship to stop, he might also know that he would have to pay the social tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U161	No further questions. Thank you, Mr Nestor. Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U162	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the text of this draft is not the first time the Riigikogu has been discussing it. A similar draft was already in the procedure during the previous Riigikogu membership, but then it was voted out of the procedure. The draft currently under discussion was reviewed by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on 13 September. a. The debate started traditionally. First, the representative of the initiators gave us an overview of the circumstances of the draft. His explanations were almost the same as we heard from the previous speaker here today. The members of the Commission asked questions, and there was a debate between themselves. We have heard the position of the government representative. It must be said that the Government of the Republic, by its decision of 24 August, did not support the procedure for this draft and the representative of the Government held the same position at the meeting of the Commission. So what conclusions did the six members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs finally support the rejection of this draft? First of all, there is a basis in the Civil Service Act for the employer's and the official's agreement to suspend the service relationship. This is in § 108 (1) which states that, on the basis of a written application by an official, the service relationship shall be suspended if the person or authority having the right to employment agrees to the suspension of the service relationship. This is a general basis under which, in principle, the situation referred to by the previous speaker can also be accommodated and relied upon by the Court when it settled the case. In the draft, the term 'work dispute' is used, which is not correct because it is a service dispute. The objective of regulation remains relatively unclear. If a person doubts the legality of an order issued by an official with a higher official status, he or she shall not be required to comply with it if it so requires, and if he or she is given such an order in written form, he or she shall nevertheless be required to comply with it, notwithstanding any doubt as to the accuracy of the order. At such a time, the service relationship does not stop. We were also talking about social guarantees for civil servants. If this situation is resolved in the way set out in the draft text, the guarantees given to officials and workers under the Employment Contracts Act will be further separated. The guarantee for officials may increase. It could also be known that when this draft becomes a law, it could also happen that, under this provision, there would be a ban on assembling an official during a service dispute or releasing him on the basis of the results of the assessment. I'm sure you can't say that's right. It would also give the official the opportunity, by some agreement, simply if he does not wish to continue in the ministry for any reason, to request a suspension of his service relationship. Since these disputes may be long, as the specific case we were told about could be considered, this would mean that, during the service dispute, a replacement should be found for this official, which would certainly involve additional costs for the organisation. We may or may not believe that one or the other official, for example, does not wish to claim loss of earnings in the event of a positive judgment, but such a right still remains valid. We don't think that's right now either. In all these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (by 6, against 5) decided to propose that this draft be rejected at first reading. Thank you. I had the honor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U163	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Linde. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading, we need to vote through this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending § 108 of the Public Service Act initiated by the Riigikogu members Kalev Kotkas and Eiki Nestor 71. Please vote! There were 46 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 18 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. Bill 71 fell out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U164	Thank you very much, Mr Linde. Please hurry, ladies and gentlemen. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U165	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The relationship between a civil servant and his employer should not be such an antagonistic relationship between a dog and a cat. There could be some respect, flexibility and gentlemenliness in this respect. Does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs really support the fact that flexible and gentlemen's ways of arguing about a service relationship deserve to be punished by depriving you of health insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U166	Thank you. A civil service relationship may and should be what you, a good questioner, pointed out. This does not mean, however, that we should begin to amend the existing provision. This part of the sentence, which is currently included in the draft text under § 108 (7), could still be in the future under § 108 (1) of the Civil Service Act. In this case, too, it is possible to make these agreements gentlemenly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U167	Please, Mr Peep Aru, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U168	Thank you. We did not discuss this in the Commission, but what is your view, as someone who is very thoroughly aware of the matter, of whether it could be misused in the future if this change came into effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U169	Thank you. In my performance, I pointed out that it was possible to use these provisions maliciously. This is certainly not something we, as legislators, would like to allow in the public service. The provisions must still be clear, unambiguous and serve only one purpose. It should not be hoped that these provisions will only be applied gentlemenly, as one of the questioners said here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U170	The second reading of the draft law restricting the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, vice-chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U171	Good Ene! Ladies and gentlemen, After the first reading of the draft law restricting the acquisition of immovable property, members of the Riigikogu Jaak Allik, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Yana Toom submitted a proposal for the draft law. The management board of the Estonian Private Forest Association submitted its protest against the principle that farmers can acquire both agricultural and forest land without restriction. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the amendments at its meeting on 12 September. The Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and member of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin also participated in the debate. In this meeting, the drafting and technical amendments of the Rural Commission prepared in cooperation with the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture were approved. In principle, the proposal of the members of the Riigikogu to grant natural persons residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit the right to acquire immovable property of up to 0.2 hectares in an area with national defence restrictions was supported. This proposal was also supported by the Minister for Agriculture, who had previously consulted the Minister for Defence. However, it was decided to clarify the wording of the proposal. The Commission supported the proposal to grant forest managers the right to acquire not only immovable property containing forest land but also immovable property containing both agricultural and forest land. It was decided to formulate a Commission proposal on this subject. At the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs on 19 September, the revised wording of the amendments and the documents to be submitted for second reading were agreed by consensus. Most of the changes are terminological and worded, with the aim of conveying more precisely the meaning of the law. I would stress that there are two substantive changes to the draft. Forest management operators will be given the opportunity to acquire immovable property containing both agricultural and forest land. Relevant changes are made to subsections 4 (5), 5 (1) and (5) and 6 (5). Paragraph 10 (1) provides for a prohibition that persons of third countries may not acquire immovable property in the areas referred to in the same paragraph, by way of derogation from § 10 (2), natural persons residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit are entitled to acquire immovable property of up to 0,2 hectares in an area with national defence restrictions. The Commission decided to propose to the Assembly to close the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U172	Thank you very much, Mr Aivar Kokk. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are seven amendments to the draft law, we will review them. The first and second amendments have been tabled by the lead committee and have been fully taken into account. The third, fourth and fifth amendments have been tabled by the lead committee, which has been fully taken into account. The sixth amendment has been tabled by colleagues Jaak Allik, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Yana Toom, the lead committee has taken the proposal into account in substance. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the lead committee and the proposal has been fully taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. The second reading of bill 54 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U173	Our last item is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U174	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine. The purpose of this agreement is to replace a valid agreement which has been concluded for more than 10 years. During this period, there have been a number of advances in social security, including Estonia's recollection of becoming a member of the European Union, which means that the Council of the European Union Regulations No 883/2004 and No 987/2009 on social security schemes apply to Estonia. In addition, new types of benefits have been created in both Ukraine and Estonia. For example, neither unemployment benefit nor parental benefit schemes existed in Estonia at the time of the conclusion of the current agreement, nor has Ukraine changed its social security schemes. The agreement has to be ratified in the Riigikogu because, once the agreement enters into force, the social security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Ukraine, signed on 20 February 1997 and the law on ratification of which was passed in the Riigikogu on 15 September 1997. Thus, it is essentially an agreement governing the denunciation of the ratified agreement that ends, which is why the termination of this agreement also requires ratification by the Riigikogu under § 27 (1) of the Foreign Relations Act. The agreement deals mainly with pro rata accounting for the payment of pensions, which means the granting and calculation of benefits in proportion to the time worked in the country concerned. The pension is paid on the basis of national legislation. The positive feature of this principle is both equal treatment of persons and the obligation on the State to pay only for the period of insurance earned by the person working in the territory of that State. The Agreement allows the Contracting Parties to continue to pay pensions, allowances and benefits to persons and their dependants or their survivors who, under the legislation of one of the Contracting Parties, are entitled to benefits in the event of their settling in another Contracting Party. The granting and payment of pensions, allowances and benefits shall be assisted and exchanged. Let us mention here the main changes compared to the old Treaty. The first major change is that the new contract does not apply to temporary incapacity benefit, medical service or birth grant. In the old treaty, this chapter was inside, but the only one who applied it was Estonia. Since Ukraine never did so, this chapter was suspended with a diplomatic note and was not taken into the new agreement at the request of Ukraine. The second and bigger change is that the new agreement has added to the coordination of parental and unemployment benefits between countries, which means that both Estonia and Ukraine take into account the employment of a person in the territory of another country when unemployment insurance and parental benefits are acquired, its amount is calculated on the basis of national law. The third amendment, or, more rightly, the clarification, is that, in terms of pensions, we have improved and updated the wording according to the legislation of both countries. The fourth amendment is that the export of so-called special pensions to another country, i.e. the payment of special pensions earned by persons outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia, has increased. The possibility to use third-country insurance periods has come to light, when both Estonia and Ukraine have agreements with this third country on this matter. Substantially, applications and medical examinations have been regulated. It is worth noting that all families living in Estonia are entitled to family benefits, and the new agreement does not create any exceptions to the current agreement. The country in whose territory the family lives is still responsible for family benefits. In a situation where the right to family benefits may arise under both Estonian and Ukrainian legislation, the benefit is paid by the country in whose territory the child lives. The main effect of the Act on the ratification of the Treaty is greater legal clarity and avoidance of double pensions. Naturally, this will also lead to a modern international agreement that will ensure that the principles of the legal systems in force in both countries are respected. I very much hope that Parliament will ratify the social security agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U175	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. There are no questions for you. I would like to ask Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Treaty of the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia at its meeting on 13 September. The draft was presented to the Commission by Evelyn Hält, Head of Financial Policy and Coordination of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Minister made a very thorough review. I am not going to repeat all of this, just saying that the Commission made the following decisions: to send a draft 64 to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 21 September with a proposal to finish the first reading and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 6 p.m. on 5 October 2011 Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-21_U177	Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. No questions for you either. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting 64 amendments on 5 October at 6 p.m. First reading of Bill 64 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, Our agenda is exhausted and the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 3.20 p.m.
