ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U1	Good morning, good fellows. We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 11th working week. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U2	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U3	Good morning, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs initiates a draft law amending the collective agreement law, which is motivated by the fact that the Chancellor of Justice has concluded that § 11 (5) of the collective agreement act is contrary to a number of constitutional fundamental rights. We want to fix this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U4	Mr President! We have an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. The issue of questioning is the consideration of mineral resources. As you know, in March this year, the Government of the Republic adopted a national development plan for the use of construction land resources. This is an extremely important development plan for the Estonian state, if we are to consider what investments the Estonian state intends to make at the end of this planning period and in the next planning period. In this regard, we have ten questions for the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U5	I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U6	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I will address the inquiry to Minister Pevkur. The inquiry concerns compliance with § 52 of the Health Services Organisation Act. The Health Services Organisation Act states that the Ministry of Social Affairs finances health services and related activities. According to this, since 2008, the Ministry is also obliged to pay the depreciation, or capital, of the buildings of health care providers. For this purpose, a contract is concluded between the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry. It's been in the law since 2008. Initially, money was planned for this purpose, but no funds were allocated for this in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Chancellor of Justice has also expressed his view that the law is not being complied with. We filed an inquiry with the Chancellor of Justice a year ago. We ask the Minister this. The economy is expected to grow by 3% next year. If a difficult economic situation has been explained earlier, why has capital expenditure not yet started to be financed, when will the law be enforced and the violation of the law will be brought to an end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted two inquiries and one draft. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. We don't have any messages today, so let's move on to presence control. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U8	Let's move on. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. We can start preparing the final vote. I will put draft 124 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 124 Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U9	We will move to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Transport Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put Bill 115 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 85 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 115 Act amending the Public Transport Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U10	We move to the third item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on membership of the International Monetary Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. We can start preparing the final vote. Due to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the draft demands a majority of 132 members of the Riigikogu. Before the final vote, we will do a presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. I will put a draft 132 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 85 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Bill 132 of the Act amending legislation relating to membership of the International Monetary Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U11	We will move to the fourth item, which is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Consensualisation of the Republic of Estonia to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund." I am pleased to ask Aivar Sõerd, Member of the Finance Committee, for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In October last year, the Riigikogu approved amendments to the IMF Statute, which provided for a reform of the participation quota and voting, which will ensure better representation and stronger voting rights for countries with dynamically developed economies, including Estonia. In order to implement the quota increase, it is necessary to give separate consent to the under-represented Member States. The purpose of the draft decision is to give consent to the increase of the Estonian quota in the IMF and to empower Eesti Pank to carry out the activities necessary to increase its participation. Estonia's quota will increase by 32.6 million euros and then total 106.8 million euros, which is 0.039% of the total amount of IMF quotas. Estonia's participation is fully paid in by Eesti Pank. The government calls back government bonds linked to the current membership of the fund. No proposals were submitted within the deadline for tabling amendments. The Commission dealt with the draft. On 6 December 2004 and unanimously proposed that the draft be put to the final vote at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U13	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! I open negotiations and ask the Riigikogu to speak to Igor Gräzini! He doesn't want a word. Then I won't open negotiations. No amendments to draft 133 have been received. The position of the lead committee is that a final vote should be taken today at second reading. Let's start preparing it. I will put draft 133 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 133 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic of Estonia to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund has been adopted as a decision. The fourth item is closed. Good fellows! I sincerely thank you for the work you have done during the second plenary session of the Riigikogu for Estonia and its people, and more generally in Europe and the world! I wish you and your families a warm and lovely Christmas time and strength for your future!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U14	We have another item on the agenda today, which is the performance of the President of the Riigikogu and Santa Claus. I ask you to come to the Chamber of the Riigikogu! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U15	Hello, dear Riigikogu! I remember last year when I went to the speaker's desk, I said, "The election year is ahead. I'm sure we'll meet some of you again, some of you no longer. " I am very sad to think back on what I said today when I recall myself and a very good friend of you, Peter Kreitzberg, whom I would be happy to see among you today. But the world is moving on, and life continues its tour. I was very pleased to hear that the Riigikogu also got a young mother named Kaja Kallas. Good example for all voters! You know, for the first time this year, by the way, I had a real idea to bring a bouquet. I have to admit, I got the words stuck in my throat when Näärivana's female assistant Snegurotška told me, in her smilings, that may I welcome to Toompea the men who call themselves the republic. I didn't understand this strange parable at the top. Then he explained that some of the top brothers said, "I am the republic!" in the approximate translation: "I the same respublika." The year that ended was the year of the changeover for the whole nation, and that was a good one. It was really nice that everyone kept their word, affirming unanimously that the euro would not increase prices. Just like they promised, that's what happened. Even the price tags remained the same, the exchange only the currency. I think it is important to recall that Brussels is unfortunately unable to look back in history or to draw parallels. One alliance has already been demolished by Estonia singing. As far as aid to Greece is concerned, the proposal made by MP Juku-Kalle Raidi to send not money but bookkeeping accountants to Greece in the form of assistance was, in my opinion, a statesmanly and very creative idea. I already mentioned I'm seeing a lot of new faces in this hall today. To be honest, I see some for the first time in my life. Why don't you write to me anymore? Before the election, you sure as hell beat Santa Claus to bring it and do it. But it's been like this every new formation every four years, and I don't blame it on anyone. I've had a really good memory of my faces so far. I even remember what someone was sitting in this hall last year and where he worked. With regard to the new composition, of course, the biggest innovation in the Riigikogu is that there are four political groups left. I'm not going to predict that if we move on like this, we'll be back to the one-party system soon. You know better than that. I daresay you'll know everyone I mean when I say that this party already has a leader. You've been elected to the President of the Republic in this Chamber. Now that is a very commendable and historic act! You promised, more or less, that you would hope to elect the President in the Riigikogu. Friends! I suggest you try to deliver on all the other promises, and you will be particularly good. The Chancellor of Justice isn't here today, is he? Or a swamp councilman? I would like to ask them that they have not missed the fact that the Board of the Riigikogu is totally gender-inclined. George is a very good man. There's one thing I don't understand. Looking from a distance, from Tibet or China, it seems that some of you have some kind of pain to cause, pluck to four, problems to yourself, to fight them like a dragon. Or these, if you'll excuse me very much, elf-discolic campaigns within the Riigikogu to save energy. I have to agree with Marek Strandberg that the energy saving week has the same thing as the abstinence minute. So many support and friendship groups have not seen the pillars and orphans of this house for decades: 37 support groups and 45 friendship groups. It's a wonder you're ever gonna get to the hearings next to this breaking-neck load. Come to the ground, dears, and deal with what the people of Estonia really expect of you. That is why the picture that comes from this hall to the people is always optimisticly happy and full of lovely smiley faces, while the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, is always sulking in the hall, and some feel like being arrogant. You know, that's the face of the person who breaks the job. It is worth remembering from Brussels, one day you might need this face in life. For you, dear Peter Võsa... Where are you? Meet the voters. I would like to tell Mr Peeter that showing the castle to the teachers was still the flower of life, because the number of students who are fooled by all this will soon be so saviorous that six times the size of the singing field is required to organise the Beersummer. Knowing today that both you and the teachers' wages from the new year will rise, there will be a queue right outside the door. So be prepared to welcome the next and the next guests politely. But after all, I come to the main, good things of today, Santa's gifts. They're in my bag every year. I ask the Centre Party Group to prepare the first to redeem the gift.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U16	I want the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U17	Hello, Santa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U18	Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U19	I hope you like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U20	Do we have to read the poem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U21	Do you want an honest and beautiful answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U22	Please, perform with something that people and I would like!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U23	The poem's here. I made it yesterday. The Bureau of the political group approved it. It expresses the views of the Centre Party Group and is therefore teamwork. Political parties in the Riigikogu sit as a court and order, To keep our people safe nor hungry cheeks in the dung. I'd like to make a law like this. Breathing the goodness of the soul, to receive votes in favour and against Legal value. We've got buttons of every color. And so, sometimes nervous, for the benefit of voters Let's grab a colleague. Fortunately, a good manager, by a kind voice, a scolder, the senses cool if necessary, so that there will not be any follow-up. But today we have come, who wasn't on the agenda. Know who has brought and what has brought, made peace in our house. Hello, Santa Claus Bay, We're not in the middle of each other, The fact that you visit us sometimes, it is the will of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U24	Here you go, let's go!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U25	That's a good story! [[Let's hear it.]] That was a really good story. Between you and him, you should know very well (I mean not only your group, but also others) that the electorate in general has a rather short memory. But that poem was so good, I remembered it. Don't read it again next year! [[Laughter.]] I have some presents for you. First of all, I will give your group an electric shepherd for internal use so that they can maintain order and punish disobedient ones. Besides, in order not to disperse the brightest heads, I'll give you a rope to move around with the meadows. There you go. Get out of here right now. Grab them, and give the whip to those to whom the rope cannot reach. Thanks to the Centre Party! Thanks! Power! [[Let's hear it.]] I'm gonna ask the Reform Party to come here now!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U26	The reforms we come from the land of the french, We got nuts in our pockets sweet and tails up, too. Now in the Riigikogu, the three of us hang in a row, This is where we keep an eye on, so that the laws can be good. We believe we're sure to cheer you up. But for all good things, we don't have any money. And there's no gingerbread girl with you. He's lying down with the spruce on the oven board. The reforms we come from the land of the french, we have nuts in our pocket sweet And the tails up, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U27	That's a beautiful performance! [[Let's hear it.]] In order to ease the guilt of your government department over the opposition, namely to reject the accusation that you don't know anything about life, I will give you the Tallinn Television programme from the newspaper Midweek. [[Let's hear it.]] Since there won't be much new in a year anyway, you can leave it on the wall for that year. IRL.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U28	Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U29	Hello!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U30	We have a gap, actually two, to what kind of poem to present. That's why we're going to read out that fourth one. I'm glad you're here, Santa Claus. And that you brought us love directly from our people. What do you want? A listening ear to a gift bag, the clarity of thought wouldn't be bad, And we're on top of the mochas. beeswax. Also to our people you deliver, pour directly into the bag. Their Efforts We haven't gone bankrupt. What do we have to offer the people? Higher education will soon be free, Be a man and use it! Mother's pension will come soon. We can send a doctor to Earth. I'm glad you're here, Santa. That's great. That's great.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U31	Thanks for the serious story. Your package is the biggest one. IRL, you know, you practice, and if it looks like it's gonna be good, you do it. Here's a bag of plaster, a brush set and a red paint. First make a model of your administrative reform so that everyone understands it, and then put it into practice. [[Let's hear it.]] Shots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U32	Good Santa Claus! Do you know what a poet-laureate is?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U33	I remember the ones you used to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U34	Since the time of Henri VII, the poet-laureate has been a person in the English court who is obliged by the government to compose groceries and other verses for official dates.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U35	Then I guess I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U36	And since we, unlike other political groups, do not have such a poet by the grace of God, we are accompanied by the title of poet-laureate, ex officio group chairman. So, I'm going to read you a deeply oppositional and social-critical Christmas poem called "Holy Game on Toompeal." Winter snowless is deeply symbolic, If there is a crisis, the snow will be spared. There's an interruption of cooperation, formerly tripartite, Now Lord Stenbock alone raises taxes. If the government doesn't drop the baton, If he doesn't step over, We'll make it to almost five wealthy people. We've already got Greece coming in. Oh, find the right processing standard. Oh, if those opponents weren't just twitching, then implement a reform of the administration, then sew the jacket to the button. Think of it as the minister's fault, that a friend made some innocent money, That life permits were bought and sold! It's not, come on, heaven, for God's sake! There's been a loss of homework, there is still an atheist full of bilingualism. Who believes in Ansip, who believes in the Dwarf, O holy night, O holy simplicity! Now I forget about scandals, crises, crap, I'm gonna sleep. I'm not gonna wake up till spring. It's not like being a role model. The weather admires, but the snow, fool, doesn't notice! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-15_U37	Sven! Do you know what the elves say when they watch you on TV? They say, "It's the threatenr! " But I have a gift for you too. Cup. It's for you to keep on trying, and you're doing a great job. If I fill this cup now, you'll notice that there are holes drilled in here. This is because you are in the Riigikogu as one of the cups of suffering, where the breakouts, the lights and the dropouts of all the dripping parties end up. That's why you can practice in your group what kind of hole a finger goes in front of in order to stop the dripping. [[Let's hear it.]] I want to read to you, dear members of the Riigikogu, finally a small extract from a beautiful poem by Kersti Merilaas. When you start to spend your vacation at home and go back to Christmas, think about this poem. Don't hit yourself in the chest! Don't beat your head against the posts! Don't push your fists into the air! Get the drum! Happy Christmas, dear Riigikogu! Please remember that people long to look up to Toompea with pride, confidence and hope! Don't let them down! This is your freedom as ambassador, and you have been given a mandate to do so. To prove this, I propose to end 2011 in such a way that everyone in this Chamber today really votes as they believe to be right and in their hearts. No one loses, no one wins. For the first time, you can press the button that you really like. Despite this, you're in opposition or coalition, just choose either red or green, which color is more of a Christmas color for you. Let us vote! That's a nice picture. Thank you! Peaceful holidays! Be well! We'll meet you in a year. [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 10.37 a.m.
