ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the seventh working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I'm asking for Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of seven members of the Central Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to Minister for Justice, Kristen Michal. As you know, the regulation of surveillance activities that will enter into force in 2012 poses a significant threat to the privacy of individuals, as the law allows for extensive and uncontrolled surveillance activities. Despite repeated attention-management by the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Bar Association to ensure stronger control over surveillance activities in order to ensure better protection of the rights and freedoms of individuals, the law produced in the Ministry of Justice significantly increases the powers of the Prosecutor's Office in authorising and supervising surveillance activities. The Ministry of Justice confirms that the aim of the law is to ensure better protection of fundamental human rights, but the opposite has actually been achieved. According to the law, the legality of the authorisation of surveillance activities granted by the prosecutor's office is controlled by the prosecutor's office itself, which is not lawful. In this regard, the members of our group have 11 questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U3	Thank you. No further inquiries or drafts are recommended. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. First of all, Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 1 June: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Secondly, it is reported that the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questions of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Thirdly, it is announced that today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in the Chamber to set up a support group for children and families. The caller is Maret Maripuu. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. Today, one draft decision of the Riigikogu and two draft laws are on the agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Announcement of a Member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund." I would like to ask for a presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund on Monday, 16 May 2011. The content of the decision is that Viktor Vassilyev, member of the XII Riigikogu, is appointed as a member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. The Riigikogu appoints only one representative from among its members. I am pleased that a representative of a council as important as the Health Insurance Board comes from the opposition. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu decided to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the draft decision be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading on 31 May (this was a consensual decision) and to propose to the Assembly to adopt the decision (also decided by consensus). I ask you to support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U6	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it. We're preparing for the voting procedure. I will put the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Social Affairs Committee, 'Announcement of a Member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund' to the final vote of 46 votes. 83 votes for, no objectors, no abstentions. Draft 46 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Social Committee on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U7	We will go to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Vocational Training Institution, Private School Act and University of Applied Sciences Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Please present a speech chair for Riigikogu member Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft before you has reached us from the previous composition of the Riigikogu. This draft concerns the possibility for the Riigikogu to support those vocational schools that voluntarily accredit their study programmes. In order to give recognition to these schools when their curricula are positively accredited, a legislative amendment is needed so that the same process does not need to be re-examined immediately due to bureaucratic obstacles. That is briefly all about the content of the draft. The chairman of the committee shall discuss the deliberations of the committee at length.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U9	Thank you. Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Mr. Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U10	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed the draft law amending the Law on the Vocational Training Institution and the Private School Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party at its meetings on 16 and 19 May. Colleagues, you have also received a draft explanatory statement. Everyone will, of course, be able to take a closer look at the progress of the discussions. It must be said that this is indeed a 'transmitted' draft from the previous composition. However, the composition of each Riigikogu is still new and earlier agreements and works are not a direct obligation for us. But the Committee on Culture considered it right and wise to bring the provisions agreed by the Committee on Culture during the previous term into this draft. The text of the draft has been amended before you. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Committee on Culture, we have complemented one-off selective accreditation with proposals made in the previous composition. I consider it important to emphasise that, as one of the issues on the agenda in the Commission, it was justified to provide for such optional accreditation by law or may also be done with a lower level of legislation, a regulation. We found that this could, however, be enshrined in the law. It was specifically said that the full text of the VET Act will probably come before us in the autumn, and perhaps this issue could already be more complexly regulated there. I couldn't figure out why it had to come out now. However, we found (this was also demonstrated by the vote) that since this draft is now in work and in the meantime it is quite a long time and it is also difficult to predict the timetable for processing the full text of the VET Act, we are now taking this step, all the same, if such a consensual situation had already arisen in the previous formation. Since most schools have joined the two curricula for which such voluntary accreditation takes place, we will start this process. The proposals made by the Commission to the assembly were as follows: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 31 May, to submit the draft as amended for the first reading, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments by 7 June. 6 p.m. There were 6 Commission members in favour of these proposals, 3 against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U11	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Peter Kreitzberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U12	Thank you. Dear waitress, Would you recall why the previous Riigikogu did not process this draft to the end and did not make a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U13	Thank you. That, honourable questioner, is, of course, better known to you. I did not work in the Committee on Culture during the previous term, but I have realised that the concept and content of accreditation were not unambiguous. This has now been clarified more.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U14	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U15	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna keep this up. You claim that some schools have already shown interest in this and that this time the content of this draft is clearer and more clearly written. However, this is a voluntary accreditation and it is known that this accreditation is not a substitute for expertise. What is your position and that of the Commission, how much so-called potential does this process have at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U16	Thank you. We know that schools compete with each other. The universities of applied sciences are certainly interested in the highest possible level of evaluation of their curricula. This process is also a message for future students. One point here is that the funds from the European Union's support instruments have been earmarked for this, and it is certainly appropriate to use them in such a transparent way. I would stress that this is the first reading of the draft. Any amendments that improve the draft are always welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U17	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U18	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm going on with the subject the questioner started. It says here that this is a one-off selective accreditation. What are the future directions? This accreditation is one-off and the explanatory memorandum states that it should not be confused with the accreditation of higher education institutions as a quality label. What is its objective now and in what way will vocational training institutions go in the future with their educational quality?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U19	Thank you. I am pretty sure that we will have comprehensive answers to these questions when we take the full text of the VET Act into work.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U20	Thank you. Please, Peter Kreitzberg, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U21	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In the Commission, we heard from representatives of the ministry that, despite the absence of the law, the accreditation process has been launched and 12 schools are essentially accredited. The question is whether the law has been broken or whether it is not needed at all because it has been managed without it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U22	Thank you for your question. Indeed, such information at the committee meeting in the Ministry of Education and Research of the Department of Vocational and Adult Education sounded like people. However, since schools have already voluntarily joined the accreditation process and, in order to complete it, it would make sense, in their view, if there were a more solid basis, to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U23	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! While you said that it was not mandatory for you to comply with the agreement reached in the Commission during the previous term, I am still asking: what was the agreement with which all the Members of the Commission agreed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U25	Thank you. If you take up a draft, dear colleague, you will recognise the agreement that was fixed in the previous composition. I'm afraid I can't find it in my papers right now, but it's here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U26	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U27	Thank you. Honourable waitress! At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we heard this draft during the debate on what vocational schools have done as voluntary work in order to obtain accreditation. Please, would you repeat and give us information on how the Ministry's representatives assessed the progress of this project? Are these schools on the line now, and could they successfully launch this project, or do we need this law bar in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U28	The information is that the programme is organised by the National Examination and Qualifications Centre together with the Higher Education Quality Agency. According to the action plan, work is really already under way, a trial round will be conducted in the study programme groups for accommodation and catering, construction and civil facilities. A week ago, half of the accreditations were planned. All educational establishments are involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U29	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U30	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I'm asking if anything changes for a student. Does a young person complete an accredited or unaccredited specialty in a vocational school make a difference to him in the real world? Is an accredited graduate in a more favourable position vis-à-vis the employer? Are we now creating some kind of elite schools among vocational schools, waiting for these schools to invade, just as some basic schools are already elite schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U31	Thank you very much. Our accreditation of curricula is part of high-quality education, and it is of direct interest both to schools and certainly to students. If certain curricula do not go through this process in some schools, there is no doubt about the future that awaits them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U32	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U33	I got a little confused about this confidence-building thing. Am I right to understand that the Commission's view is that there is some sort of illegal activity in our education that should be reported, I do not know, to the competent bodies that should be monitoring it? Is this illegal activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U34	I do not think so, because schools have voluntarily joined the accreditation process.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U35	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I still don't give up. I ask: if the faculty stays the same at school, what is the difference between accredited and unaccredited? Does this temple 'accredited' give this subject some special status, despite the fact that the faculty has not completed any special courses?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U37	Thank you. We should still get there, and I believe we are also getting there, that unaccredited curricula cannot be awarded national training orders.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U38	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U39	Thank you. Dear waitress, In order to reduce this confusion a little in this Chamber, please repeat whether it is true that, in the case of an accredited curriculum, which we are contributing to by supporting the draft, a young person who has completed it will receive an invitation immediately under the professional law and will not have to apply for it for a second time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U40	Right. The question is that there really is a huge difference in the labour market whether a person has a certificate of competency or not. If a certificate of competency can still be obtained immediately with a diploma certifying completion of an accredited curriculum, an academic statement or whatever goes with it, that is, of course, the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U41	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! I'm also joining this interesting discussion. Chairman of the Commission, I'm gonna give you a little help first, and then I'm gonna ask you a question. These very positive things that you have pointed out here would certainly be all very right if the Ministry of Education and Research had done what he promised the previous Committee on Culture, in other words, if this so-called implementing provision on temporary accreditation had been brought here together with the law of the vocational training institution, which would set out all the positive trends that we talked about and which we are all very much in favour of. As chairman of the committee, do you have any idea when we will be able to deal with the law of a vocational training institution that includes all aspects of accreditation? What are the promises made to the chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U43	No specific and individual commitments have been made to the chairman of the committee. We also asked the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research at the Commission meeting. Their forecast was that in autumn the full text of the Act will be in the Riigikogu. It is currently in the coordination circle of the Ministry of Education and Research and they hope to reach the Riigikogu by autumn. To my question, whether this would happen in September or October, they did not want to answer precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U44	Thank you. No further questions. I would like to thank all those who ask and thank the Chairman of the Committee on Culture. It is now possible to negotiate. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Peter Kreitzberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion provides for one-off selective accreditation. This is about giving law force to a one-time action, a trial. Nobody is likely to dispute the need for accreditation in vocational training institutions. This work, however, requires proper preparation, which could have been done a long time ago. The objectives, principles and organisation of accreditation should be clearly reflected in the law. However, this is not reflected in the law, even the concept of accreditation has not been opened. It seems that the Riigikogu is offered legal axe soup. Such activities should, at best, be laid down in a regulation or a contract. However, if the law does not give it the opportunity to do so, a proper draft must be prepared, which opens up all important accreditation issues. They're giving me a green light right now. They don't know exactly what they're doing. At the same time, accreditation is already underway. 12 vocational schools have essentially passed accreditation without the law. Consequently, this unprepared law is not needed or completely illegal, starting with accreditation without the law. Take whatever the end, it's a completely illegal opening. In fact, the whole point of the law is to find the 25 volunteer vocational schools that will go through the process. In the case of a positive accreditation decision, they are provided with a six-year quality guarantee, even if initial pilot accreditation turns the entire existing scheme upside down. Is the problem that money, perhaps European money, needs to be spent under the screen of the law so that there is no later debate? Isn't the whole thing about money that can be used with the help of the law forgotten? If the norm becomes to cover unfinished work with a legal cartoon, all our legislative activities will be difficult to take seriously. In any case, the way in which this law is created and its motives are not rationally justified. The SDE Group proposes not to proceed with such a hatchet and to reject the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U46	Thank you. Call chair Tarmo Leinatamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U47	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that there is another thing being done here just so that it can somehow be made to give some kind of temple, some kind of signature to somebody so that they can shake hands somewhere in the auditorium and hand over a diploma that the school or specialty is now accredited. Students who graduate have achieved their results primarily thanks to teachers, not thanks to whether or not the school has some kind of accreditation. If a person can play a musical instrument, paint, do one thing or another, it is thanks to teachers, regardless of whether these teachers or specialties are accredited. I think when this thing becomes a law, it's gonna be a strange view of this hall in the faculty that I'm saying. It is wondered whether the Riigikogu really has nothing more and more important to do than wish to tighten the situation again and to rank the educational institutions that have already been done with primary schools. So, ladies and gentlemen of my own group and coalition, I do not understand the meaning of this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U48	Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U49	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for being here before you for the second time today, but I heard what has been said about illegal activity, some kind of temple, ax soup and a legal cartoon, and I ask you to listen again to my views or, more specifically, to the views of the two groups that have tabled this draft. The normal thing is that the Riigikogu is willing to serve in relation to society. Yes, I agree that since the new legislation on vocational training is on the way, basically we could wait for this beautiful day once it is adopted. Whether it will be approved here in the Riigikogu in a year, two or three, we will not be able to predict or have to do so in a democratic country. However, if we want to be willing to serve and help those people who live in our country, if they have done something better than they should have done, then we must do it. Indeed, it is now that 25 vocational schools have voluntarily started to accredit their curricula in two fields of study. Of course, those students and teachers who have done this valuable additional work to improve quality want the legislator to recognise their work properly if accreditation is positive. I do not agree at all with Mr Kreitzberg, who has already spoken in advance about granting some kind of authorisation. Experts shall work and carry out expert analyses to determine whether curricula are eligible for accreditation. Only if they are suitable for accreditation shall they receive accreditation. The Riigikogu has approved the Professional Act. We recall that on the basis of a nationally recognised curriculum, a vocational school graduates receive an invitation when they finish. If we do not grant this permission today to young people who have completed an accredited curriculum, then all these young people will have to re-apply for it simply because some members of the Riigikogu have decided to be squirmy. Is that what we want? No, I don't. I recommend that all members of the Riigikogu, before pressing the red button, consider once again whether we wish to be willing or unwilling to be willing to serve in relation to Estonian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U50	Thank you. There are no further requests, negotiations have been concluded. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to reject the draft Act on the Vocational Training Institution, the Private School Act and the Act on the University of Applied Sciences at first reading. This proposal must be voted through. I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to reject draft law No 6 amending the Act on the Vocational Training Institution, the Private School Act and the Act on the Amendment to the Law on the University of Applied Sciences at first reading. 37 for, 44 against and 2 abstentions. However, the first reading of the draft has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. June 7th at 6 p.m. Today's third item is the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union... Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U51	I have a procedural question. Since everything we're saying here is going to be a verbatim, I'd like to understand. There was a sentence: '37 votes in favour and 45 against, the first reading has been completed. " How can it be finished if 45 votes were against?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U52	They were against rejection. A motion to reject the draft had been put to the vote. Since there were more people against rejection than there were in favour, the first reading has been completed. Please, the second procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U53	That doesn't mean I didn't understand what was going on here. I am interested in the structure of the sentence, how it was formulated: 45 votes against has finished reading. That's the thing. I wonder what it looks like in a verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U54	We voted on the proposal to reject the draft. The bill was not rejected. There were 44 people against rejection. The first reading of the draft has therefore been completed. That's the wording, and it's all in the verbatim. Thank you very much for your help.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U55	Let's go to the third item. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U56	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill has a long history of development. The taxation of home property in Estonia has also been dealt with in previous parliamentary formations. However, first of all, in a few words, who are the homeowners affected by the tax, who are the people who pay the tax, and whether it is true that taxation of home ownership is a measure of taxation for rich people, as has been said in a certain criticism. Both ownership reform and housing reform changed considerably the composition of the owners of Estonian dwellings. While in 1994 the state or local authorities owned 71% of all dwellings, by the beginning of 2002 only 4.2% (the State 0.7% and local authorities 3.5%). As a result of both the privatisation of housing and the ownership reform, the share of private housing funds increased to 95.8% of all dwellings. The share of households living in their own housing is around 90%. If you look at this in the overall context of the European and OECD countries, it must be said that the OECD in this spring review of living conditions and housing is one of the countries of the OECD which has the largest share of privately owned housing. In one generation, since the 1980s, the share of homeowners in all EU countries has increased, for example from 40% to 55% on average in Western European countries. The increase in the share of homeowners in transition countries has been dramatic, especially due to housing reforms following the emergence of normal civil relations in the area of property law. The first fact that can be stated in this context is that the vast majority of our population are homeowners regardless of the financial background. This has been a deliberate political choice for the country as a result of the 1990s' property rights reforms. What kind of living quarters do people live in? Of the dwellings, 65.7% are in towns and cities, while 34.3% are in the countryside. Of all households, 10% live in farmhouses, 19.5% live in family houses and terraced houses, and 70.5% live in apartment buildings. The relatively large share of apartment buildings in our housing fund is due to the 1950s and 1990s. the structure of construction activities in the 1990s. What are the main problems that 90% of people who own their home are currently facing in Estonia? The development plan for the Estonian housing sector for the years 2008-2013 provides a good answer to this. First, access to housing. This concerns, in particular, less viable and new households, i.e. young families entering the housing market. Secondly, the shortage of housing adapted to special needs. Nearly a third of people with disabilities need to adapt their housing to cope independently. Thirdly, depreciation and deterioration of the housing fund. The construction volume of the last ten years is well below 1950. The average construction volume in 2005 and the age of buildings built half a century ago are already approaching the life expectancy set by the standards. It is a fact that in the near future, multi-storey apartment buildings need to be renovated to nearly 3300 dwellings, or about 150,000 square meters per year. Due to the exponential growth in the construction of residential buildings in the 1960s and 1970s, the need for reconstruction is increasing several times: between 2010 and 2014 it is estimated that over 8 000 apartments, or more than 350000 square metres per year, will increase even more in the coming decades. The high energy costs of the Housing Fund are also important. If we look by the year of construction of the housing structure, here too, the fact is that given the current pace of construction, the volume of new buildings will not cover the loss of residential buildings falling out of the housing market as a result of the end of their lifetime, although in recent years construction activity has been rapidly activated. For example, the share of housing built before 1919 is 9.41% in the housing fund, the share of residential buildings built before World War II, 14.2% in independent Estonia and the share of housing built after the war until the 1970s is nearly 30%. The share of new buildings in the age structure of our housing fund is very low, representing only 4%. In doing so, the existing Housing Fund is of a lower quality than that of the European Union. For example, in terms of technology, more than one fifth of housing in Estonia is free of water toilets, hot water and washing facilities, while in the old European Union Member States, statistics show that only a few percent of such dwellings exist. Housing in the Estonian housing market is of very different quality. The lack of comfort is a serious problem for 9% of households, according to studies. This means that these households do not have the conditions to comply with basic hygiene requirements. This is particularly the case for families with three or more children and families with an unemployed household head. Another important problem for our housing fund is the risk of the destruction of residential areas of environmental value. Cities have been estimated to identify some 40 regions of environmental value. However, in view of the fact that street sections, villages, natural communities can also be considered to be an area of environmental value, studies show that the number of potential sites can reach several hundred. The pressure on the historical ownership structure, with tax burdens, will certainly also affect the inhabitants of the region and its residential structure. After this introduction, which we were able to get an overview of, who are actually homeowners and what the housing fund is like, we come to the deeper meaning of land tax and land tax burden. I quote the Chancellor of Justice as an initiative: 'Tax obligations and, in addition, tax increases are not considered to be a classic social risk, which assumes that a person will face difficulties in coping. ' The following quote: 'There is therefore no provision for social security benefits which would insure persons against possible tax increases. The above must also be considered to be fundamentally correct, because the taxes and their increases,' emphasised the Chancellor of Justice, 'the risks involved must be grounded by the introduction of taxes already. 'In the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice, the legislator is obliged to respect the principle of solvency when imposing taxes. According to this principle, the tax burden is dependent on the taxpayer's potential solvency, i.e. economic success. The Chancellor of Justice points out that it has been emphasised: '... In the case of property taxes, which is also land tax, it must be borne in mind that the obligation to pay the tax does not force the taxpayer to give up his property and does not jeopardise the taxpayer's ability to live in dignity. 'The Chancellor of Justice points out that the legislator must take into account the solvency of the taxpayer, including the different groups of taxpayers, when imposing taxes and their conditions, in accordance with the principle of solvency. In any event, according to the Chancellor of Justice, when introducing the tax, it is necessary to ensure that this tax does not result in persons becoming in need of social assistance. In the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice, it is worth highlighting the view of German legal scientists that, as a tax, the person should not be deprived of what must subsequently be returned to him as social assistance. Nor should social assistance granted to a person be withdrawn by means of taxation. In other words, public power must not be withdrawn with one hand. The Chancellor of Justice published his assessment in a letter of formal notice sent to the City Council of Tallinn, where he reached a position on the incompatibility of certain legislation concerning Tallinn land tax with the Constitution. If, according to this estimate, we look at this real land tax burden, we will see that it has increased significantly, on a consolidated basis, in recent years. If we look at all the land tax receipts, of which a fixed part is proportional to the income from residential land, including taxes on domestic land, then the 2004 consolidated land tax was 482 million kroons, which increased to 791 million kroons by 2010. If we look at the average land tax rate, in 2004 it was 1.06%, which reached 1.7% of the land's estimated taxable price by 2010. On the basis of the above, it can be said that, firstly, the vast majority of people living in Estonia who have a different economic background, including people receiving social assistance from the state, are the owners of their home. Secondly, when imposing taxes, the legislator must take into account the solvency of the taxpayer and, as the Chancellor of Justice said in his assessment, the tax must not affect a person to give up his property. Thirdly, in recent years the total income from land tax, including the land tax burden of home owners, has increased considerably. A particularly drastic example, which has created a vibrant social response, is 2.5 times the rise in the land tax in Tallinn. As a percentage, it is not extraordinary if we look at the land tax structure of all Estonian municipalities, but if we take the real absolute burden of land tax per household, it is several times, in many cases even tens of times higher. Many people, especially those living in atmospheres, have experienced a very serious problem in maintaining their homes because they have faced payment difficulties because of an additional burden they had not taken into account. This draft aims to exempt homeowners from land tax in densely populated areas within 1500 square metres and spread up to 2 hectares, with several additional conditions. Firstly, in the country to which the exemption is granted, according to the population register, the taxpayer must also have a place of residence, i.e. the place where his dwelling is located. Parliament has come to this draft, which has been initiated by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party, after a very long debate. As early as 1994, the Land Tax Act provided for the possibility of exemption for local authorities. That was about pensioners. The Act on the person repressed by occupation regimes was adopted in the composition of Parliament X, which allowed the exemption of persons repressed by occupation regimes to the extent of their property. In the composition of Parliament XI, following a draconical tax increase in Tallinn, a draft law was adopted on the initiative of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party, giving local authorities the opportunity to exempt homeowners from land tax as a tax credit. Several municipalities have exercised this right. Given the high rate of land tax that exists in several municipalities, and given the general cost of housing and the direction chosen in our housing policy, so that Estonia would have a society of homeowners with a broad structure, coalition parties have considered it reasonable to take the next step and exempt homeowners from land tax. It is clear that even in the current calculation of the derivation of payments from the municipal compensatory fund, the calculated rate of land tax is taken into account at 1,25%, and the introduction of the Land Tax Exemption Act in this way reduces the revenue of the municipalities, which is quite legitimate. Land tax is a national tax. This is the only national tax to be collected in full by local authorities. Therefore, the State has no legal obligation to compensate for the exemption from the land tax or for the benefits of the municipalities. However, in order to ensure the financial sustainability of local authorities, coalition parties have agreed that the financial impact of the land tax exemption on local budgets, which is estimated initially by the Ministry of Finance to be approximately EUR 17 million, must be covered by the state budget. The way in which this is done, whether in tax law or otherwise, will become apparent in the course of the procedure for the 2013 budget, as the draft law will enter into force on 1 January 2013. It is reasonable that changes in tax law should have a sufficiently long notice period. Therefore, coalition parties have considered it appropriate to enforce this bill without delay. We will discuss tomorrow, for example, a reduction in the income tax rate, which should enter into force from 2015. We are also discussing the increase in tobacco excise duty, which is expected to come into effect from 2013. The representatives of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance have also indicated that technical changes are needed in the case of this land tax change administered by the State in cooperation with local authorities, and such a period of notice is appropriate if it is known that the law has been passed but has not yet been implemented. I hope that Parliament will deal with this draft with a sense of responsibility and we will be able to adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U57	Thank you. There are a number of questions for the rapporteur. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I'll start with a compliment. I actually enjoyed listening to you. You have an excellent Estonian language, it is probably your native language, and you are probably educated in Estonian. However, the text of this draft is quite flawed. Less than two pages contain at least 11 grammar and orthographic errors. There is a dubious use of words, there is no logic in sentences. So I want to ask you and ask you for an answer. You've been in the Riigikogu for eight years and more. How often have you had to defend the draft laws that you have initiated, but the text of which you have failed to read?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U59	Thank you. I am quoting from my good teacher, Ülo Vooglaid, who has said that draft laws cannot have objectives, objectives can be for people. So I think I'm not defending the bill in this chair, but I'm actually protecting the people for whom the bill should be enforced. As regards the fact that the draft is two pages, I must say that the draft contains one section of substance, the second section deals with the time of entry into force and the draft is one page. As regards possible practical changes in order to achieve the objective set out in the draft, we have already discussed them in the working group before the first reading of the draft. I certainly dare say in this chair too that there are a number of technical clarifications to enable the draft to be implemented correctly, legitimately and impeccably. As regards the draft explanatory memorandum, before the second reading, where substantive amendments are made to the draft proposal, the commission must also submit a new explanatory memorandum in accordance with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the previous formation. If there are grammar errors in the explanatory memorandum, you, Mikhail, as a member of the Monetary Commission and as an Estonian philologist, will certainly give your help in the orthographic preparation of the draft for second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Yesterday, in this very hall, the Minister of Finance answered questions and the main topic was the draft with the same resounding title. He stated his personal position that he did not support this draft and argued his position quite thoroughly. He also noted that neither he nor his ministry was given the opportunity to analyse this draft either legally or financially. That is my question: why are you in such a terrible hurry to deal with this bill, and why are those who wish to do so not allowed to analyse the bill or do research?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U61	Thank you. In a situation where there is no inevitable economic pressure to adapt to changes in the economic environment, Parliament must act in a manner that is predictable for the recipients of tax-law amendments. Therefore, it can be justified why a draft submitted by the Ministry of Finance, through the Government, has reached Parliament with regard to the reduction in the income tax rate from 2015 and the increase in tobacco excise duty since 2013. It is also understandable that the proposed proposal for the abolition of the tax on homeland will have an impact from 2013. As for who supported it or not, I must admit that I read the letter from the Minister of Finance thoroughly. There are a number of constructive proposals here that we will certainly consider seriously in the procedure for the draft. However, there is no word here that the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance does not support the processing of this draft. On the contrary, I have a letter from the Ministry of the Environment, which announces support for this draft, including reasonable remarks, and a letter from the Minister of Regional Affairs, which also announces support for this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U62	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U63	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Seeing such an upset vigilante on the remote control of Tallinn, I'm starting to wonder if I can even ask. I understand that for you this bill is primarily a draft of Tallinn, but I am a person of Tartu. Look, Tartu is such a small town. I have a very large house in Tartu and my monetary victory in Tartu is very big. But I have a deep concern about whether the central government intends to compensate Tartu for the loss of income from land tax, so that I can still get these services in Tartu, which, for example, last winter tended to be very low.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U64	Thank you. I am sure, Aivar, that we will see a significant improvement in management quality in Tartu in the near future. But when it comes to whether we want to make any exceptions to local governments, no. The principle of uniformity, which is a constitutional requirement and a principle for the addressees of tax law, must also be the basis for such compensation. That's my point of view. It would be inappropriate to make any subjective preferences here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U65	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U66	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U67	Thank you. Yeah, you're absolutely right, Lauri, it is. Real estate tax has been applied in many Member States of the European Union. This means a tax which consists of the value of the land valuation and of the value normally derived from the transaction-based value of the property added to it, expressed as a percentage. The question is that this is certainly not some kind of goal to move towards. In the same way, you will also use the example that it has historically been implemented and implemented by the lion's majority of countries to justify progressive income tax. This does not mean that we should implement it, but we should also look at other examples of the real impact of this tax. It is no coincidence that the Swedish moderators, when they formed a government after the previous parliamentary elections, by one of the first laws, imposed a cap on the property tax specifically referred to, which, according to my memory, amounted to SEK 6000 a year. For example, the Finnish Small House Owners' Association has pointed out in its analysis that this restriction has had a very positive effect compared to the share of small dwellings in the entire housing fund in the Nordic countries. So, indeed, it is a fundamental choice of value. A number of politicians before the elections said that new taxes should be introduced. We heard about the car tax, we heard about the property tax. There were politicians who said that the tax on the land under home must be abolished and, of course, the decision on this will be taken for the legislator's sake of debate. However, in matters of this type of tax law, it is very important to understand the real effects on the tax environment, to understand the tax community and their solvency in order to tax them correctly according to the Constitution. Thirdly, it must be understood that values play an important role here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U68	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As we know, this land tax exemption has already been tested, for example in Harku municipality, where land tax was waived at the end of last year, landowners were exempted from it and as a result the place fee for kindergarten was almost doubled. Is your goal in all the municipalities where land tax is abolished, raising kindergarten fees, perhaps losing subsidies for children's activities, children's sport, anything? At the moment, it seems that this mechanism, which is just beginning to be developed, may come out very incomplete and not involving everyone's interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U70	Thank you. I find it difficult to understand whose interests are, in fact, represented by the rhetoric that responds to this draft. If a formal appeal could be made to protect the income base of local governments, then, as I have said, the coalition has a very clear view of the mechanism for compensating the income base of local governments that must be ensured. So that can't be motive. Now we get to the people. After all, there are real people living in local governments who have homes with economic burdens associated with home management. If this burden is reduced, what could be wrong with it? Indeed, Jürgen Ligi's scepticism about this draft is understandable, because the only budget that actually increases is the central government's budget according to this logic. In the case of the central government budget, it is certainly important to look at where the sources of revenue are generated so that the central government can keep its word by fulfilling the political promises made by this coalition. This is why the news that comes from the improvement of current tax receipts and the additional income generated by economic growth is very positive. To link the exemption of homes from land tax in Harku parish with the fact that prices for other services were either increased or not raised there is, in my opinion, wrong. These things have nothing to do with anything. The creation of this link is a political step, and it is as misleading as the words of Edgar Savisaar. I quote the news of 27 March 2008: 'His [Savisare] says that people must show solidarity and support one another through paying land tax also in the construction of waterworks and sewerage. ' Also, the construction of water supply and sewerage in Tallinn has no direct connection or legal connection with land tax revenues. True, as the opposition rightly pointed out in the city council at the time, nearly one third of this land tax increase money went to finance Tallinn Television and propaganda. That's the story that's been taken from the news.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U71	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U72	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Tax reductions are always positive in society, but they must always be properly formalised. Point 3 of the explanatory memorandum states that the draft does not introduce new terms. But even in the title of the bill, we are talking about homeowners and the text of the bill we see the importance of the residence included in the population register. I have a question about how you will see the future legal regulation in order to ensure that voluntary inclusion in the population register, for example, in one family, in order to formally receive this land tax exemption, does not extend to so many homes that the EUR 17 million we are currently planning will not be many times larger.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U73	Thank you. That's a good question. We also discussed in the working group before the first reading how to solve such issues and what are the motives of people, i.e. whether people might be able to register themselves in order to obtain a land tax exemption from some immovable property. Indeed, population register data are information that is important to the state. These data reflect the permanent residence of the person. However, it can also be said that such a problem could arise for all the benefits or benefits offered by the local government to its residents. Clearly, it is not real that people move from one municipality to another in a circle of nomads and take advantage of these benefits. In order to avoid this, I would point out, it is still stipulated that the taxpayer has one immovable property to which the land tax exemption can be applied, and this one immovable property is, according to the logic of the draft, his permanent dwelling.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U74	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U75	Thank you to the President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You probably know that last night in this Chamber, this question was discussed for quite a few hours. I hope at least you've been watching it in your room.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U76	I was in the hall for a while, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U77	I'm sure you heard the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, say that the land tax exemption will lead to fake transactions, i.e. family members will find new residences. He also referred to legal problems, especially in the case of the title. We cannot treat this as a serious draft in the future, because it simply has a populist title. Of course, there will be all kinds of budgetary problems. How do you comment on these views?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U78	Dear waitress, It is good that you have now come to the question that I just wanted to ask. Indeed, the coalition agreement contains the idea of allowing two residences for a person, i.e. being in the population register of two municipalities. How do you view these two laws as compatible when this intellectually interesting idea also finds its realization? Which home, then, does a person receive this land tax exemption or has the right to receive it for both places of residence, because from the current text of the law it comes out directly like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U79	Thank you. The question is that if we look at this bill, it is a draft act. It is likely that this will change with regard to certain clarifications, but its purpose and the subject-matter of regulation are in place. The Coalition's intention to provide for several permanent residences is still in the policy planning phase. It will certainly be followed by discussions, one aspect of which is the same land tax issue. Much more discussion may arise in connection with the receipt of personal income tax or with any other tax obligations relating to a person, but also in relation to the receipt of benefits from local governments. It is a very broad circle of topics and it is quite clear that it all needs to be worked out. My personal view is that, regardless of the way in which this provision will be implemented in the future, it will still apply to one dwelling and, if this initiative, as defined in the coalition agreement, is to be taken forward, these clarifications must certainly be made by looking at the entire Palace of Tax Law, so that we do not create unnecessary confusion in the tax environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U80	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! In your speech, you said that the state does not intend to fully compensate the municipalities for this land tax exemption. Let me get this straight. Apparently, the percentage above which the country has not planned to compensate will be 1.25. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U82	Thank you. No, I'm sorry, but I certainly expressed a different view. As has also been emphasised in the draft explanatory memorandum, the impact of the amendment is covered by state budget resources. That is the clear position of the coalition. What I said about the book rate of 1,25% concerned the actual equalisation fund formula, which also takes into account the land tax rate, but it is not linked to the legal effect of this legal relationship or its draft. It is logical that this legal effect will still be taken into account in the actual land tax rates, or based on the proportion of the residential land forming the land tax base of the municipalities, rather than the so-called notional rate. Why, in the case of the Equalisation Fund, the estimated rate is 1.25, it is actually a matter of discussion in negotiations with local governments, because the actual average percentage of land tax in Estonia, as I pointed out, rose to 1.7 in 2010.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U83	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! We all know that revenue is of great importance to local authorities. These funds can be invested by municipalities in roads, education, the social sphere, etc. It is certainly not in the interests of people to reduce the financing of these spheres. Yesterday, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip confirmed that the local authorities will be fully compensated for the loss of income, I stress that it will be fully compensated. As a draft waitress, can you confirm to reassure all local authorities that their income in connection with the land tax exemption will not be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U85	Thank you. I think the Prime Minister's answer was very clear and unambiguous. I'm gonna have to join it. As the Prime Minister said, this deficit of local governments' income will be covered and will take place during the financial decisions of the 2013 budget. I think it's an appropriate decision. There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U86	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U87	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! The land tax rate under the Land Tax Act amounts to 0.1 to 2.5% of the price of the land tax per year. I believe you have a lot of bills. I want to know how many anti-human local governments are using a land tax rate of 2.5%.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U88	Thank you. A constructive and precise question. I took out a table from the Ministry of Finance's website that says land tax rates. I'm sorry! The website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board contains land tax rates in 2011. Between 20 and 30, there are municipalities which apply a rate of 2,5% of the price of the land tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U89	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! First of all, thank you for your long and thorough answers. The answers of the rapporteurs are not always that long. You quoted Ülo Vooglaidu as not being about lawmaking, but about helping people and improving their lives, and the laws are only the means to achieve that goal. That's my question. Perhaps you will repeat what the Estonian person wins with this bill and what values this bill actually bears.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U91	It's a rhetorical question, I'd say.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U92	... that during the following questions everything will become clear. Please, let's go! Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U93	Your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U94	Thank you. That was a constructive and thorough question. In short, this exemption will reduce the overall tax burden in the country, which is natural. Land tax is a direct tax and the share of direct taxes in the country is decreasing. Another real effect is that I believe that this exemption will boost the housing market, i.e. improve access to housing. Thirdly, the draft has a social impact. Look, I have mentioned the circumstances concerning people with disabilities, the recipients of the various grants. In fact, those people who have to comply with this tax are also actually subject to this tax. It is the same problem pointed out by Chancellor Teder that we are taking money from people to give it back to them with the other hand. Similarly, Tallinn has built a pyramid scheme to compensate pensioners, which even the Chancellor of Justice had to question. This makes no sense in the rule of law; it does not coincide with good tax practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U95	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U96	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to ask whether, if this bill is passed as a law, there will also be a law that prohibits local authorities from raising the land tax rate to a maximum level during the following year before the law enters into force. If, in most municipalities today, the land tax rate is not actually 2.5%, but lower, and if they now quickly raise it, they will receive maximum compensation. So, in the meantime, will there be a measure to prevent local authorities from raising the rate of land tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U97	Thank you. No, we have not planned any preventative measures between the adoption and implementation of this law. It is true, it is clear, as the Prime Minister emphasised yesterday, that, as a compensation rate, we are still talking about the rate that is currently in force. Our aim is not to create an opportunity for everyone to increase this rate within 12 months in order to receive a higher amount of compensation later. I think this is the same problem as whether local governments behave responsibly. Many municipalities behave responsibly when we look at the land tax burden, which can be expressed in absolute terms. The cost of land taxation is also low in many rural municipalities, but it is a serious problem for people in several municipalities, especially as regards its scope and extent. In the case of Tallinn natives, people have in many cases been put forward to choose whether or not to give up ownership. As a result, a constitutional problem is already emerging.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U98	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U99	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You've made me look more like a serious guy who doesn't throw too much wool, but today it looks like you're throwing a little bit. The reason why the land tax has to be abolished was that our housing fund is old (we are talking about apartment buildings in particular here), that it is difficult for young families to acquire housing, and that these homes do not meet the wishes of people with special needs. It's all right, but I don't really understand how losing land tax can help solve all this. Most people can still buy their own apartments. If we look at the property tax on the apartment, it's about a couple hundred kroons a year. At the same time, you have increased VAT by 2%. In the case of an apartment costing EEK 1 million, it is EEK 20,000, while in the case of building a house costing EEK 2 million, it is EEK 40,000, not to mention the acquisition of furnishings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U100	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U101	My question is, do you really want to help these people get an apartment or a home? The fact is...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U102	Come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U103	...the abolition of land tax here won't help. You also said you were protecting people. But what kind of people?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U104	Thank you. The time for questioning is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U105	Thank you for that question, Urve. I'm trying to be more serious. You highlighted this problem as if two groups of people were opposed. This is, in fact, a very strong political claim in tax law: on the one hand, there are rich people who own houses and, on the other hand, there are people with lower incomes, who have lower taxes, and therefore it would be justified to burden the rich with raising land tax and (I do not want to put words in your mouth because you did not claim to) even to introduce property tax, as a minister in the government proposed in 2009. Speaking of who these wealthy people are, I repeat the household structure: 10% of people live in farmhouses, 19.5% live in family and terraced houses and 70.5% live in apartment buildings. To claim that there are a few hundred kroons of land tax in the apartment buildings of Tallinn's indigenous buildings built before the war is a joke. Actually, it's a real joke. This tax amounts to thousands of kroons a year. We're gonna talk to the people of Kadriorg, the people in downtown and the people in Pelgulinna, and we're gonna find out. We are aware of this, that it is also a problem for the owners of apartments in indigenous areas and that it has a real financial impact. That is exactly what I wanted to say with my example of a housing fund. Our housing fund reflects the direction we have chosen that we are a homeowner society. This reflects that our homeowners are people of very different incomes who have very different possibilities to cover housing costs. It is therefore a sensible economic policy decision to leave money to people to be able to cover their housing costs. However, this does not mean that it should not involve a number of other residential decisions. For example, I am very pleased that the home support programme for families with children was not interrupted during the economic crisis. On this basis, families with a total of over 6,000 children have been able to improve their living conditions or to acquire homes. I think the government did nothing wrong when it made these decisions, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U106	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U107	Thank you, manager. I really do have a procedural question. Doesn't the waitress understand what he's being asked for or pretending he doesn't understand what he's being asked for? Do you know?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U108	It's not a procedural issue, and I hope...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U109	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I really liked your idea that this bill should be handled with a sense of responsibility. However, handling the draft law with a sense of responsibility also requires the involvement of civil society. The question is, why is it so urgent? Why can't we wait and discuss the matter with the Estonian Union of Cities and the Estonian Association of Municipalities? Why not expect the Ministry of Finance to be able to carry out its own analyses and the local authorities and regional policy support group set up by Parliament to discuss this issue? What's the rush to make proposals during the week? Why can't we handle this calmly? Maybe that's a good bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U110	Thank you, Helmen! As far as I am concerned, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will hear the views of the various stakeholders and the addressees of this tax amendment in its Monday debate. But I also have to say that this position and problem have not come up recently. It's been known for a very long time. The whole problem arose and amplified Tallinn with a draconical tax increase in 2008. It is therefore our duty to find a solution here now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U111	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U112	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You referred several times to the coalition agreement and the values highlighted in it, but if you take Mr Near's assessment. In particular, he said that I quote him that this bill, the exemption from the tax on the housing land, reduces the autonomy of the local authorities' income base, which is one of the values highlighted in the current coalition agreement. It is very difficult to understand now whether you have a different understanding of the coalition's values or whether you have not coordinated with your coalition partner, who is responsible for monetary policy in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U113	The coalition was formed by political parties. The IRL and Reform Party are in the coalition and the Coalition has agreed on such a tax change with very clear objectives. In order to ensure that the local authorities' revenue base is not damaged, so that the political value of the coalition agreement is also guaranteed, we have provided for this exemption to be covered in a way that will be decided in the course of the 2013 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U114	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U115	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have a question to which I expect a specific answer from you. I don't understand why you needed to create such a mess in the coalition. Yesterday, when the question was discussed in Parliament and the questions were answered, the Prime Minister was upset and promised only to answer the questions of intelligent people in the future. At the same time, the Minister of Finance very strongly questioned the speed of the procedure for this draft and raised the issue of so-called 'fake transactions', problems concerning budgetary resources, legal problems, etc. I also asked the Prime Minister that, as far as the regular valuation of the land is concerned, does this now lead to an increase in the price of land-for-profit land and, therefore, land entrepreneurs will also pay off in the local authorities the sums paid up to now by the owners of the land under the land. Please answer me: what is the specific source on the revenue side of the state budget, by which you will compensate these EUR 17 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U116	None of the money numbers have a purpose. This source is the overall increase in tax revenues due to the increasing budget receipts that have been projected. No increase in tax burden is foreseen in the Coalition. On the contrary, these steps will reduce the share of direct taxes in the tax portfolio. As far as the land is concerned, no decision has been taken by the government on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U117	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, On my first question, I touched on language problems and, unfortunately, I did not get an answer. Right now, I suggest we talk about fourth-grade mathematics. When we got into a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you said it was not fair that in 40 years a tallinian would have to pay the price of the land for a second time. Knowing that the land tax rate in Tallinn is 1.5%, and multiplying by 40, we get 60. Is it malicious anger or is the problem just math? Just in case, I'm asking because, according to my memory, yesterday in this hall, the exact same opinion sounded exactly the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U119	Yeah, you're right, Mikhail: 2.5 times 40 is 100 and 1.5 times 40 is 60. About 30 municipalities in Estonia do indeed have this maximum rate. However, as regards the internal debate in political parties on whether or not to support this draft, it is not unusual at all. I think that makes the bill better, not worse. I was just looking at the new Delfi news entitled 'So would the parliamentary parties curb the price increase'. It came as a surprise to me. I don't know if this is a typographical error, but Kadri Samson says that to reduce home expenses, a tax on homeland needs to be abolished, which saves homeowners EUR 17 million a year. A perfectly reasonable statement. All you have to do is support.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U120	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U121	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! It came up here that the Minister of Finance, Ligi, did not seem to have much to do with this bill. You know, I'm a journalist, so I love quotes. This is a quote from Minister Ligilt: 'I am not at all satisfied with this filthy form [... ] and is not actually satisfied with this procedure. [... ] I see no reason for this! " He spoke yesterday about the fact that they actually wanted to process the bill in the third quarter. It is also clear that this haste is due to the fact that last year the city of Tallinn managed to adopt the budget before the Riigikogu cancelled the sales tax. And now we're all running in a race to quickly and quickly cancel the land tax, which actually means it's a political decision. This is also indicated by the fact that...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U122	The support for this bill actually came in the form of an election result. There's no point in doubting that. This problem was boosted in Estonian society in 2008, when a sudden political decision raised the tax on the land under home. Indeed, this decision was not taken after a long social debate, as has now arisen, during which the President of Parliament was given 3 000 signatures of support during the previous term. It was done abruptly. During these years, there has been plenty of time to find the support of society for this idea, to explain it. I think this explanation has been a success.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U123	Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! Unfortunately, you tried to compare a pig and a cuckoo who were not well-comparable when you answered my previous question a little upset towards the end. Speaking of Tallinn land tax, the abolition of VAT distinctions, i.e. replacing VAT on heat by 5%, should have been compared to 20, which also changed the lives of many people. If you're saying people have to give up their place of residence because of land tax, then because of that change, they have to sit in the cold. So if you compare, it's like comparable things. However, I am still waiting for an answer to my first question: why is there no economic analysis and analysis of the consequences? Why is the explanatory statement so pale and meaningless?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U125	First of all, the impact analysis. As regards the impact on the persons addressed to the tax, this is quite clear and also expressed in absolute terms in the current estimate of the tax base. The impact on local governments is also clear. The third question is about covering the financial deficits of local governments: where is this money taken from? As I said, this money comes from the central government, and in what way it will be covered, this will be revealed in the 2013 budget procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U126	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I repeat my statement with regard to the Minister of Finance. His point was that he did not personally support the draft, but since he is a reform party and the party has a contract with the IRL, his ministry sent this supporting response. My question, however, is that the municipalities are probably now losing a lot of revenue. That is our main concern with the bill. What is the rate at which the government will compensate the local governments: by the rate currently in force or by some future rate? For example, in the municipality A the tax rate is currently 1%, but in two years' time the same municipality will set a new tax rate. Will the compensation be based on a lower or a new, higher tax rate? There are also municipalities where the tax rate is already 0%. Will they also be compensated for the loss of income and, if so, by what rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U128	Priit, what do you think could be human justice? I think it is fair to compensate, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, for the current rate. It's natural. In the coalition, the Reform Party has a contract with the IRL and the IRL has a contract with the voters and that is how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U129	... also Minister Ligi said yesterday that whoever is not the authors of this draft, he would like to shake their hand because the joy they offered us yesterday with this text was really very great. Who wrote this down?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U130	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Austet waitress! Would you help to interpret the idea in the second paragraph of page 2 of the explanatory memorandum that the draft reduces the number of children in relation to the number of square metres of housing? How does land tax exemption create a situation where more people can fit into a small apartment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U132	This paragraph is erroneously worded, but the point is clearly that. I drew attention to Mrs Reinomäe's study on the relationship between the number of children and living conditions. There are two very clear trends: firstly, the acquisition of an additional child into the family is linked to housing conditions and secondly, the number of children in the family and the size of the dwelling per family member are correlated. If housing costs decrease, families will not be able to improve their living conditions, but will grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U133	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U134	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Listening to your emotional rhetoric, I get the feeling that the basic idea of this law is to control land tax in the city of Tallinn. This is, of course, perfectly understandable for the people elected from Tallinn, and your constituents will certainly like it. I also disagree with the way in which finances are organised in Tallinn. However, I cannot agree in any way with the approach of adopting a law that extends across the country in order to influence a single municipality. There are certainly reasonable or at least more reasonable ways to do so. This draft does not make sense. My question is: have you considered any more sensible measures, such as the introduction of a land tax ceiling or something else? And if so, what conclusions did you draw?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U135	The idea of a land tax ceiling was also under discussion in the previous parliamentary term. It was an idea that was analysed. But we have taken the view that it is reasonable to exempt the land under home from land tax in full. I really do not want to oppose one municipality to another here. Jevgeni, you are the representative of the people of Ida-Virumaa, and I can tell you that Kohtla-Järve is one of the few municipalities with the highest land tax rate, which is 2.5% of the taxable price.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U136	Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U137	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Do you also have an overview of this and a picture of the situation in the European Union? How many Member States of the European Union have domestic land been exempt from tax? Isn't there real estate tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U138	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I think it is clear to the hedgehog that this law is being done for the sake of the city of Tallinn, and if there were an IRL in Tallinn, I do not think we would be sitting here today discussing this bill. What's the point of rushing? The Minister of Finance also stressed that there is no time for further analysis, etc. Is the only reason why local government elections will take place in 2013, when this law will apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U139	No, it's not. It has nothing to do with this. But it is true that if the IRL and Reform Party had been in power in Tallinn in 2009, the tax on the land under home would certainly have been abolished at the decision of the local government council in Tallinn, just as the IRL and Reform Party have promised in the elections. But I will say once again that the problem is not limited to what Mr Riisalu drew the attention of the Tartu resident here. These questions are broader. We really should not be dealing with any exclusive arguments of a single municipality here. This should not be the point of the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U140	Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U141	Thank you. My second point of clarification is about compensating local governments for the loss of income. You claimed to be compensated for the percentage of land taxation now. But in that case, there's a pretty bad situation. In fact, this law was brought into force because some municipalities have taxed the land very highly. Now the result is a situation where they are the winners of the municipalities, and those who have kept the land tax percentage down are the losers of the municipalities. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U142	I think we're still looking at tax law on a wider scale, and it seems to me that we're slipping out of focus. I think people pay the tax. Right now we are forgetting who this bill is supposed to concern and who is really affected by it. People who pay land tax in Tallinn are citizens who actually exist. They ain't no strings. If they lose that load, it's a positive signal for them. The fact that people in another municipality have not had to bear the burden of heavy land tax in addition to other housing costs has also been positive for these people. There has been nothing wrong with the low tax rate on residential land or the loss of land tax on rural homes in some municipalities. There's nothing to complain about.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U143	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U144	Dear waitress, The Prime Minister, speaking here yesterday, admitted repeatedly and honestly that the purpose of this bill was to free the inhabitants of Nõmme and Pirita from the kidnapping of the City Government of Tallinn, because the land tax was said to have grown there to several tens of thousands of kroons. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that such a burden is really too great. With this bill and the compensation mechanism proposed here, however, you will practically reward the Tallinn City Government by paying it the same amount from the state budget and placing it on all the rest of Estonia's residents, including the poorest, also the narva and the fertile, through the state budget, to compensate for the burden of the former Pirita and Nõmme landowners. Is this really fair in your opinion, and did you really find no other way to punish or control Tallinn City Government than to reward it on the account of the rest of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U145	You have formulated this question, Jaak, very peculiarly: did you find no other means of punishing Tallinn City Government than rewarding it? The question of how this compensation model will be developed must be decided in the course of the discussion of the 2013 budget. But, as I said, to confront municipalities in the compensation mechanism would be a distortion of the principle of the uniformity of tax law. Let's keep looking at the person who lives in some local government! Why should relations and confrontations between politicians lead to the conclusion that Nõmme and Pirita's homeowners do not deserve this exemption?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U146	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U147	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U148	Thank you. Mrs Tuus, as the Minister of Finance, put forward in this question. I hate to reply to the Minister of Finance, but I will respond to your arguments, which you put forward with reference to him. Firstly, as far as the title of the draft is concerned, I think that it is not bad legal practice to formulate the objective pursued by regulating this relationship in the titles of the draft laws governing a particular legal relationship, nor is it unusual in international lawmaking. When we recall the late Professor Mereste, he was a supporter of this practice in many examples. The right thing is, however, and we discussed the importance of the title of the draft, however, to refer to the basic act to be amended. I think that, in the course of our further work, we will be able to regulate this in such a way that the purpose of the draft, as well as the title of the basic act to be amended, is reflected in the title of the draft. Secondly, you spoke of concerns about families, because families are starting to fall apart because of the land tax exemption from their homes, because family members are starting to move around the country. You see, an analyst at the Ministry of Social Affairs at the time, Andra Reinomägi, carried out a very thorough analysis of the impact of living conditions on families' livelihoods, but also on birth rates. As I said, this analysis of the Ministry of Social Affairs is quite thorough. It concludes, among other things, that poor access to housing is also one reason why young families delay the acquisition of a child, including a third child, into the family. To argue that the bill, which reduces the cost of housing for a large part of the population, has a negative impact on families, I find it somewhat sophistic. It's hard for me to sense that connection. The claim that people would try to maximise the potential gain from the exemption should the exemption arise could undoubtedly be made for each exemption. For example, people could try to formalize a church as their place of residence in order to benefit from the exemption provided for by the law in force for churches and temples. In fact, the idea is that such a thing could be done deliberately, completely arbitrary and absurd. As far as budget revenue is concerned, the future impact on the central government budget, in particular, is certainly an important issue that needs to be taken into account when drawing up the 2012 and 2013 budgets so that coalition parties can keep their promise. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have confirmed, and I can only agree with those words that this is our will, and we must keep that word. Once again, as far as fear is concerned, Marika, because people are starting to sign up to different places, I would remind you that there is a provision in the coalition agreement that the coalition is analysing these possibilities for a person to have multiple permanent residences. This is also an important issue. With this idea, the coalition will definitely go on. The positions of the Ministry of Finance, which pointed out that the land tax exemption must be taken into account in the future, are also useful here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U149	Thank you. When we are talking about the analyses and recommendations of the OECD and the IMF, as our legislator, I do not think it should be based on the fact that these are institutions that are making mandatory precepts to the Estonian Parliament. These are authoritative institutions that make their recommendations on how to ensure the solvency of the state. However, this does not mean that Parliament has no decision-making power on the issues concerned. For example, during the previous parliamentary term, we discussed the OECD report on our social policy, where a number of proposals had been made to establish pension ceilings, etc. In my opinion, Parliament's representatives in the Committee on Social Affairs did not, in a rather consensual manner, push for such ideas, and I think they did the right thing. Such valuable decisions, which also concern tax policy, remain up to the Member States of each country, including reputable international organisations. We're not creating a precedent. Jürgen Ligi, a draft initiated by the Minister of Finance during the previous parliamentary term, released land tax in the currency of that year, at a land tax rate of less than 50 kroons. This, too, led to a decrease in the income base of the municipalities, but given the small impact of this land tax exemption on the general income base of the municipalities, its compensation was not considered and my memory did not show any important proposals from the opposition to compensate for it. Secondly, with regard to tax exemptions, the Land Tax Act still contains land for different purposes on which no land tax is paid. These are, for example, the land under cemetery, churches, congregations, and temples, a public land. These are very clear valuable decisions taken by the legislator, which, pursuant to § 113 of the Constitution, has exclusive rights and a monopoly on the levying of taxes. So as regards the recommendations of the international institutions, including those of tax law, I think that a more comprehensive document than the OECD Member State's report on recommendations is the OECD's comparative report on housing policy trends this spring. I think that we should compare these different assessments, as well as those of the OECD, concerning the international growth of homeowners and the financial and legal tasks that arise in this regard, both as regulators to the countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U150	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I think that many people are, of course, delighted with this bill. I also see that my family wins several hundred euros a year. But the OECD and the IMF have written to Estonia that our land tax is small and that the land tax should actually be raised in Estonia. Looking around the world, we see that land tax, home tax, real estate tax, etc. are being raised. We're going in the other direction. I am interested in how IRL managed to convince the Reform Party, who actually very closely monitors what the OECD and the IMF are writing down, that such a draft must be brought to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U151	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Waitress! Despite the fact that your draft is basically only one paragrane, your presentation lasted at least 20 minutes and was quite thorough and long, which certainly required a lot of energy. But for some reason, this energy has not been enough for the bill. There is no analysis of the consequences of the draft, as well as a mechanism for compensating local authorities for loss of income. Why has there not already been a mechanism in this draft to compensate local authorities for the loss of income? In fact, the first sentence of paragraph 6 of the explanatory memorandum leaves the possibility that it will not be compensated in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U153	Thank you. The Municipal and Urban Budget Act states that the steps taken by the State with regard to the municipalities during the financial year must be balanced with the national budget allocations for local authorities. This is the legal framework in which we are located. I remember in the famous sales tax discussion, which also ran out of time, all of these issues came to the fore. I therefore reiterate that there is no legal, puristically legal requirement in the current legal order to remedy the decline in the income base of local governments from 2013. There is a political position of the parties forming the coalition to do so in order not to undermine the solvency of local governments in order to ensure that local governments are sustainable. If you remember, it was precisely in answering the questions of your group's representatives that the Auditor General, Mihkel Oviir, spoke about this, who found that such an approach was adequate. Indeed, if such a decision is made, it could be compensated. Which way? Like I said, there are several ways. One of the options that the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi expressed yesterday in this very parliamentary chair is to review the percentage of personal income tax received by municipalities. There are other budgetary options. These are the decisions we can make after we have dealt with the 2012 budget and we have come to the 2013 budget. The real financial impact on local authorities will start to produce this draft law from 1 January 2013. However, Kalev, the issue of compensation was never highlighted by the Centre Party when you raised the land tax 2.5 times in Tallinn. Tallinn's homeowners had to find this money in their pockets. That never came up with you guys. I'm taking out a document right now. This is the position of Edgar Savisaar: 'The increase in land tax affects people in the workforce, the impact on pensioners is minimal. ' That was your analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U154	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U155	Once again, the competence of the Riigikogu's board of directors is limited to the possibility of putting the proposed draft laws on the agenda of the Riigikogu sitting in accordance with the proposals of the committees. All substantive changes, proposals, corrections are within the competence of the Commission. We're moving on. Please, Marika Tuus, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U156	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I think there are a lot of local government leaders in your party, parish elders, county elders, yes, present and former. It is incomprehensible to me how they are interested in weakening local power and making the local governments' revenue base even more tense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U157	Again, we did not discuss this in the Commission. But if you ask for my personal opinion, I will answer. I think that the leaders of local governments who are members of the Riigikogu are most concerned about people. Please note that the money we are talking about today is money that remains in people's pockets. That's the first thing they've thought about. The next thing we need to think about is how possible costs in 2013 could be compensated for, which the State should not really do. It's a political decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U158	Priit Toobal, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U159	Thank you. I will continue with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin on the procedural issue. Today's draft came to the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on a proposal from the committee. But how did it get on the agenda of the committee through the Riigikogu Board if it does not meet the current requirements that Mikhail Stalnukhin was just talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U160	The draft law complies with the norm rules, the content being dealt with between the first reading and the second reading through the proposed amendments. All suggestions from the floor are welcome, however. Now, in the meantime, let's take Rein Randver's second question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Twice I have heard your message that the state does not have to compensate local authorities for this estimated EUR 17 million. Please state the reasons for this!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U162	I have, by the way, said twice that it is certainly a political decision to compensate for this. But I am very simply justifying this: the land tax is the only national tax which, according to its logic, does not have the obligation of the State to cover possible changes to the land tax for the municipalities. That's what I'm talking about in terms of compensation. However, this is a political decision, and this has been declared by the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U163	Thank you. I'm finishing the round of questions and answers. Thank you, Sven Sester! I'm opening negotiations now. The floor is Aivar Kokal, representing the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union for five minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U164	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The exemption from the land tax on land under domestic land is a multi-layered decision. This will allow homeowners to save money, stop their absurd punishment for having a home and contribute to the emergence of a wealthy middle class. The state cannot be an account office that sees and treats taxpayers in particular. There is an old saying that the country is for people, not the other way around. But again and again, there are situations where you have to shout, 'Stop! " Taxation of the home means that a person buys a home already acquired by paying the land tax like a second time and is essentially a tenant of his property. Although in many places the tax charged for the land under home is relatively small, the question is the principle: do we support and encourage home ownership or not? When, for the first time last year, the possibility of granting a housing tax relief arose, it seemed to me, as the chairman of the parish council at the time, to be a sensible idea. We had already granted many benefits to the inhabitants of our municipality, and the exemption from the housing tax was another way of reducing the tax burden on the inhabitants of Jõgeva municipality. Thus, at the meeting in November last year, Jõgeva Vallavolikogu adopted a decision that changed the current housing tax regime. From 1 January s. a all the landlords of Jõgeva rural municipality who were registered and submitted a declaration according to the population register were exempt from the housing tax. Last year, three municipalities decided to prevent the Estonian state and free their own residents from taxing the land under their home: in addition to Jõgeva rural municipality, Harku and Rae municipalities. Just as local governments have the right and the opportunity to offer benefits to their residents, so representatives of the people must act here in the Riigikogu. Nearly 90% of people live in their homes in Estonia. We are a homeowner society, where having a home is not a privilege for the wealthy, but a natural way of life for the people. Acquiring a home is one of the most important decisions of the family, and it is the responsibility of the state to help homeowners, not to punish them. This has been the position of the IRL for a long time. During the previous parliamentary term, an amendment to the Land Tax Act was adopted on the initiative of the IRL, giving the municipalities the right to exempt from the land tax the repressed. Many municipalities and cities have taken advantage of this opportunity. The previous composition of Parliament, on the proposal of the IRL, legalised the right of the municipality to exempt homeowners from land tax. The nationwide abolition of the tax on the land under home is a logical continuation of earlier steps. A joint draft between us and the Reform Party states that from 1 January 2013 home tax will be abolished in densely populated places in Estonia for 1500 square metres and up to 2 hectares in scattered settlements. It should be borne in mind that only the residential area on which the person's actual home, or dwelling, is situated, according to the population register, is exempt. As a result of the legislative amendment, approximately EUR 17 million per year will be available to homeowners. This amount is reduced for municipalities because, although the land tax is a state tax, it is collected into the municipal budget. The coalition has agreed in principle that municipalities will not have to suffer as a result of the abolition of the tax and that their deficit of budget revenue will be covered by the state budget. Whether this is done by increasing the percentage of income tax paid to the municipality, or otherwise, will be established in the course of the 2013 state budget procedure. It is certainly a good thing that the law is passed as soon as possible so that both homeowners, municipalities and the Ministry of Finance can plan ahead. It is often asked whether the cessation of taxation on homeland prepares the ground for real estate tax, which is promoted by several politicians in Estonia. The clear position of the IRL is that homes must become and remain exempt. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! After all, it is an old truth that the Estonian state begins at home in Estonia. And if everything is okay at home, it's an important assumption that the country is doing well too. I am very ashamed to listen here to members of the Riigikogu who think that the state only has to collect taxes and there is no reason to exempt people from taxes. This is incredible! If you're talking about something else during the election campaign, in this hall, you'll forget about it in two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U165	Thank you. Please, Indrek Iron!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U166	Good questioner! It's always a characteristic of a politician that you ask one thing and he answers the other. I have to say, if you ask me for a date and a month, I can't tell you. This was not really discussed by the Commission, it is the competence of the Government of the Republic. But as far as I can tell, it's up. I'm afraid I can't tell you exactly when it's coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U167	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U168	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'm reading the explanatory statement here, and there's a sentence that the bill reduces the pressure on the social welfare system. It is clear that the social welfare system is very closely linked to local authorities. Care centres are largely local authorities and the development plan for primary care also provides that a large part of the family doctor's infrastructure should be created in cooperation with local authorities. How is there, however, an alleged link between the land tax and the pressure on social welfare or how serious is that link? Do people use less family medical services in this regard or do less nursing homes need places? How does that make a connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U169	It turns out that we have a basic state aid measure to guarantee the minimum subsistence level, which also takes into account the so-called housing component, right? Really, the question arises: if housing costs decrease, what percentage of people in need of income support are homeowners who have had to endure this burden while receiving help from the state budget in the event of a shortage of local government procedures. It's a calculated operation that can be done. There are a wide range of types of support provided by municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U170	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U171	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Here is the feeling that some people are about to voluntarily pay land tax. Was it also discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that it would be possible for members of a political party to pay the land tax voluntarily over Estonia as much as they want, even on the example of their Canadian uncle? Was there such a debate or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable performer! The bill extends to homeowners, and it certainly also affects local authorities, or local authorities' autonomy, very much. The land tax is known to be 100% for local governments. I personally am pleased that the Riigikogu has formed a support group led by your party partner. It is a support group for local governments and regional policy, which I have understood at meetings that it is very important for us to have good cooperation with local authorities. But this draft law has not been discussed very seriously in the support group, nor have we met national self-government associations. As far as I know, they will only be meeting on 6 June to discuss this issue, but we want to finish the first reading of the draft today. Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U173	I simply state that the non-draft cannot be dealt with in Parliament. It is perfectly natural that there will be discussions between the first and second readings, meetings with stakeholders. It is good that Aivar is carrying this support group representing this local initiative. After all, he is a former local government leader who, as one of the few, has taken the so-called self-sufficiency step towards abolishing the tax on the land under home. It is not bad at all that this experience is shared more widely. It certainly has a very positive signal for local communities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U174	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U175	That's my first question. The last one was procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U176	Oh, I'm sorry! First question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U177	Here's the question. In fact, the initiators of the draft had no obstacle to being able to prepare a proper draft amendment to the Land Tax Act at the Ministry of Finance. You've had every chance! What they brought us here is a pure failure in terms of legislation and pure propaganda in political terms. My question is simple: maybe you're doing this on purpose? Maybe the bill is so badly prepared on purpose. If there is as much noise as possible, Urmas Reinsalu will be able to show himself in full glory by stepping up with stunning protection for homeowners. Did you mean to bring us a dump like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U178	Thanks, Eiki! No, this is not a cull, it is a sensible legislative initiative that faces very strong global opposition. And these things are protected in Parliament. I very much hope that, when it comes to the speeches of the groups of ambassadors, they will still defend the positions expressed by the representatives of these parties before the elections and speak about their tax policy and additional taxes, including homeowners. There is no point in narrowing the subject of the debate, focusing solely on the draft. An alternative could also be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U179	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U180	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I rarely get the feeling that I still don't speak Estonian at a high level, but you managed to make me feel that way. I'll ask you again, you obviously didn't understand my question. Why has it not been entrusted with putting together this draft and explanatory memorandum to the specialists of the Ministry of Finance? Why did the group councillors probably do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U181	The question is that sending the draft to the procedure under discussion today was the decision of the coalition. We wanted us to be able to deal with it without delay and implement the draft, which concerns the addressees of the Tax Act, at a sufficiently long notice to avoid possible legal problems for the addressees of the Tax Act, such as VAT, as well as the kind of confusion that occurred in the Tallinn municipality in connection with sales tax. Such things must be avoided. In other words, things must not be delayed; there must be predictable action in society. For the sake of predictability, I think it was for the sake of predictability that we and the two groups put this draft in place before the summer. This does not mean, however, that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance do not participate in the processing of this bill. As I said, there will certainly be changes to the bill. They will be made there, but that will not change the purpose of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U182	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U183	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! This law raises a lot of questions. For example, apartment owners have questions, but maybe problems. It is very difficult to understand the extent to which land tax exemptions are granted to apartment owners in respect of land belonging to apartment buildings or terraced houses. They're all different homeowners. How's this gonna work?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U184	The proposed amendment to the Tax Act is personal, taxpayer-based, which means that when it comes to real property, such as a flat in a row or even house, it is clear that both owners of real property will be exempt, both having a corresponding tax exemption. In the case of co-ownership, in that case too, any taxpayer who owns both the real and the mental part of the co-ownership will be entitled to benefit from this exemption.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U185	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U186	Good Tarmo! No, it was not discussed in the Commission. There was no question in the Commission that anyone would voluntarily have wanted to pay more or, let us say, at the same rate as today. That's how no one put the question. If we had been placed, we would certainly have discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U187	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U188	Thank you, waitress. You yourself pointed out that over 70% of our residents live in apartments. Since the land under the apartment is exceptionally small, you cannot object to the fact that the owners win much less by adopting this law than the residents of private homes. But these losses must be compensated either by raising taxes (part of the plans in question are already in the process tomorrow) or by raising the price of public services. Or you have to accept a drop in quality. There has already been a reference to how this has happened in Harku municipality. My question is: do you consider it fair that, in essence, the owners of the apartments will subsidise the residents of private homes? I note that I am not your voter, so don't just refer to Nõmme's pensioners!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U189	Thank you. Do I think it's right that the owners of the apartments essentially start subsiding the landlords? I do not submit to the provocation that there are two groups of bad and wealthy landlords, farm owners, owner of a family home and, on the other hand, another type of people, and that there is some kind of struggle between them. In the same way, one might question whether there is currently a reverse situation in which someone is subsidising that second group for the tax rate currently in force. I think that this bill will still apply equally to all taxpayers, according to the size of the land under the law. This, however, must undoubtedly be accepted that the law has a different impact on different people in absolute terms. Of course! It would be demagoguery to deny it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U190	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U191	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As a hardened legal guardian and taxpayer, who would like taxes to always be paid fairly to everyone, I have a request to settle such a small case. For example, if a businessman named Nossov registers his mother-in-law to a two-hectare plot near Pühajärv, where there is no dwelling, and organizes dances and sells hamburgers there, is everything legally okay because his mother-in-law is registered there? How, then, does the local government receive the tax on this land, which is used for another purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U192	These questions, which were raised by the Ministry of Finance, for example, as to whether the draft law should also contain a restriction on obtaining the rental or rental income that is currently covered by § 11 of the Land Tax Act on tax incentives, definitely need to be clarified between the two readings. The question has arisen as to whether there is now a situation in which people are going to register here and there, cross-checked, with the aim of obtaining a land tax exemption for the possession of some property. Once again, the law has created several conditions that people must meet. The general logic of this exemption, as I have already referred to when talking about the benefits of local governments, is that we have not noticed that a large part of our population is moving from one municipality to another as nomads in order to maybe have some of the benefits that some local government has placed on its registered residents. No matter what weight or effect, this advantage isn't. At the same time, I do not think that it can be ruled out that the leaders of the implementation of the draft law, which is based on the meaning of this law, may arise. That is quite possible, but I hope that this opportunity can be minimised in the process of dealing with the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U193	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U194	Good waitress! I represent Jõgeva and Tartumaa in this case and I repeat the views of the Jõgeva and Tartumaa municipalities, I dare say. Last week they confirmed that they were deeply distrustful, to put it mildly. I am asking my question because we need to support homeowners not only in Estonia but also in Greece, Portugal and Ireland in the future. You know perfectly well that money in the budget is not in general terms, but under some cost item. I mean, there's some idea you've got, what kind of cost items are they gonna take these 17 million off, isn't it? I would like to know what to say in Tartu and Jõgeva. Is there an initial idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U195	Thank you. If you ask me, Igor, whether I prefer Irish homeowners or Estonian homeowners, then I prefer Estonian homeowners to Irish homeowners. I don't understand how you, Igor, so you can ask and why you should ask. As for the way Jõgeva County authorities feel, Aivar said that things are the opposite. I hope that Aivar will explain in his speech how things are in Jõgeva and Tartu countries. But where does the money come from in the central budget? Money comes from taxpayers. This is a fact that we need to know that tax revenues are actually collected from taxpayers. They're not coming from another planet, as the Prime Minister has explained to us very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U196	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U197	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Point 6, first sentence, of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the implementation of the law does not involve direct State budget expenditure or revenue. The last sentence of the same point states that the impact of the amendment on local budgets is estimated by the Ministry of Finance to be approximately EUR 17 million, which is covered by the state budget. Which one of them is it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U198	Both. The first sentence of the law means that, as I said, according to the Municipal and Urban Budget Act, the state has a legal obligation to compensate the municipalities only for the legal decisions taken by the municipality and the city in the middle of the financial year, which have a negative impact on the municipal and urban budgets. Consequently, this draft does not have a direct financial impact. The second question concerns whether the political parties in the government coalition wish to provide for a cover to be paid by a certain mechanism in 2013 in the interests of the sustainability of local government budgets. Yes, it is a political position expressed in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U199	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I had the same question. Of course, I'm not going to count it off the bill. But by exempting homeowners from land tax, we inevitably create a serious deficit in the income base for local authorities and this is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic to compensate. You will only start working on the compensation mechanism by 2013 when you find these amounts. As early as this year, the state will borrow EEK 7.9 billion, which means that the state will have some difficulties with regard to disbursements. Do local authorities have to be afraid again when you look at the style of government? Will indirect taxes be increased, or will there be provisions such as those in 2009, when the percentage of income tax was cut and it was said that there is no need to engage in sport and youth work and that teachers' salaries, for example, will be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U201	Thank you, Inara! As far as the actual implementation of this mechanism is concerned, it is clear that it must happen in such a way that it works in parallel with the implementation of the law. Thus, from the beginning of the 2013 financial year, i.e. this calendar year, since according to the State Budget Act, the calendar year is also the financial year. However, as regards whether there is any increase in direct or indirect taxes to cover the costs of this law, no: no separate tax increase is foreseen for this purpose. The resources of the central government can still come from an improvement in tax receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U202	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U203	There's something I need to clarify. I will continue to speak in the interests of Jõgeva and Tartu County and in the interests of local governments. I will then say more simply: we are facing additional difficulties and burdens, including aid packages and other projects, the volume of which we do not know at the moment. I'm asking you very simply. There are expenditure items in the budget from which money must be taken, no matter how much money comes from. Have you thought about which articles, no matter how much that money is, will this compensation come from? Local governments in Tartu and Jõgeva County have a right to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U204	Thank you, Igor! I repeat that neither the compensation will be covered by the cost items of the central government, but by revenue items. And revenue items are tax revenue. From there comes revenue to the state, which allows the central government to make financial decisions, including the decision of the political coalition to compensate local governments for the deficit caused by the exemption of homeowners from land tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U205	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U206	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I am asking for the interests of Tartu and Jõgeva County, as the previous questioner did. I was moved to ask for your very superior attitude towards local governments and national associations in Estonia. Didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't, didn't you, didn't you, didn't you, didn't, They'd have known about it before. A very fool now falls out: by 6 June, you will summon them when the first reading of the draft has ended in the Riigikogu. That's not how you behave! All the more so when we talk about democracy here and that local authorities should be the balancing power of central power. When Kalev Eagle asked you about EUR 17 million and how to compensate for it, you said it was not a direct cost to the state budget. Please state the amount that you consider to be the direct cost of the state budget. How much does it start?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U207	The cost of the state budget relates to the activities involved in the technical implementation of the Act and relates in particular to information technology: the databases of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board must probably be redeployed. The officials of the Tax and Customs Board have not been able to state the extent to which this is to be done, but it is certainly not such a remarkable undertaking that it prevents this bill from being processed. As far as local governments are concerned, on the contrary, we regard them with great respect. That is why we consider it reasonable that, although this is not a legal requirement, these costs must still be compensated. And the fact that we were going to do this was known before the election. All political parties expressed their views. It was known who, by voting for this exemption, could be supported, by voting for whom it would be possible to support the introduction of some kind of tax increase or real estate tax. It wasn't a secret to the people. And that's the way it was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U208	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U209	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Here's the question. The Ministry of Finance announced the day before the government took a decision approving the draft: in addition to adding certainty to current owners, the exemption will also increase the price of the land and reduce turnover and thus the access of young families to housing. This is contrary to the objectives set out in the draft. How do you understand that statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U210	To be honest, I have to admit frankly that I can't. If any reduction in the tax on property increases the price of this property, then, according to the same logic, the introduction of a car tax could lower the price of cars etc. I think the causes and the consequences have gotten mixed up here. The Prime Minister quite rightly pointed out that, on the contrary, the confidence of young families in acquiring a home could be expressed by knowing that during their lifetime it was not burdened with an additional financial burden, i.e. a maximum rate of land tax. I don't think that's bad. In the 1990s, we ourselves have chosen, in our housing policy, the way that we are a homeowner society. Our residents own 90% of their homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U211	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U212	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. A number of problems and possible shortcomings have been identified in today's debate. As chairman of the committee in front of this Chamber, can you confirm that work on this draft will continue and will most likely be presented to second reading in the amended form of the Commission as well as in the revised explanatory memorandum? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U213	Thank you. Dear Urmas Reinsalu! I thank you for drawing attention to Delfi's very embarrassing mistake, which led to your words being placed in my mouth. It's really embarrassing! I called there, and it seemed to me that Delfi's journalist himself was also ashamed of this sin. But my question is that, when it comes to price increases, the current government policy, which you also support in this Chamber, has created a situation in Estonia with various tax increases, where we have the highest price increase in the euro zone. It is likely that this land tax bill will go exactly the same way as your other initiatives. We can already see what's happened in Rae's parish. The taxes on small apartment buildings fell, but the rest of the natives got into land tax because their plots are bigger. Is the idea of abolishing your land tax really coming out of the explanatory memorandum to the bill, which contains a list of what the bill reduces? One point in this list is the statement that the draft reduces the survival of indigenous sites.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U214	Kadri, I'd love to lend you those good words! It's not a bad thing to support this bill. But I'm glad you brought up the same term, "patiences." If we look at the country's housing development plan, the survival of indigenous communities, the ability of natives to provide for their homes economically, so that these settlements are not under constant pressure from aggressive new developers, is actually a very serious issue. In the case of Tallinn, it is regrettable that the 2.5-fold increase in land tax has also put the sustainability of indigenous sites under pressure from this aspect. Unfortunately, it is more efficient to build apartment buildings of the type that will certainly reduce the value of the atmosphere. This is a fact that we can see with our own eyes when driving around in these places.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U215	Thank you. Peter Võsa, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U216	Thank you, President-in-Office. I have a question for the waitress that relates to my previous question. If you don't understand the point of view of the specialists in the Ministry of Finance, is there any bad specialists in the Ministry of Finance or is it a mistake that you don't understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U217	I'm a long way from criticizing the finance department's specialists. Yesterday, I think the Minister of Finance indicated that he wrote that sentence in person. In my opinion, this understanding of which engines are launching the housing market internationally is certainly the subject of a very important debate. The Minister of Finance has submitted one position. The international general understanding, which is also reflected in OECD reports, is that the main regulators of the housing market, the shift in pressure, are demographic changes, in particular demographic changes in the world linked to immigration. But what is the effect of economic decisions is the subject of a longer discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U218	Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U219	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The exemption of homeowners from land tax is, in fact, a burden on local authorities: they have to start entering certain data, making distinctions, etc. Next step, the Tax and Customs Board will have to look at all these payments, etc. So all the implementation of this law requires time and resources, including taxpayers' money. Have you not thought that, for example, the Ministry of Finance would identify these homeowners, calculate areas and make direct compensation without exemption? This law could then have been entitled the 'Law on Compensation for Homeowners'.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U220	This is certainly an interesting idea that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is worth discussing. But this was not the model we were drawing up. I have to admit, Inara, it really takes some time to implement the law. It is not simply that we are adopting the law, and it will be possible to apply it immediately tomorrow. It is necessary to identify the number of persons concerned in the databases, to provide this information to the tax authorities, to carry out the procedure. That is why it makes sense to process the draft without delay.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U221	Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There have been quite a lot of talk today over a number of hours about various issues related to this draft, and also about the fact that the draft is clearly crude. As I understand it, you have some think tanks and working groups that have discussed the draft, and one version of how to compensate local authorities for the loss of income is that the land tax, as such, is to be abolished for 1500 square metres or even for larger land, and that money is to be compensated for by an increase in the percentage of income tax. How much should this percentage be to lose a land tax like this at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U223	To tell you the truth, there's a very daring idea to lose the land tax at all, the coalition doesn't agree. The Coalition's agreement concerned one thing: the exemption of the land under homeland from tax. In itself, there can be no such thing as income for the community because of the civil turnover of the land and other circumstances. The question is whether we see in our homes any other property and social value in support of their nature and purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U224	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U225	Another very ambitious argument you have made today is that one of the main reasons for the abolition of land tax is that you know quite a number of people who are forced to give up their homes in some natives. There is now a legal possibility, as you mentioned, that in addition to the old and invalids, the land tax exemption has also been granted to the repressed. Perhaps instead of confusing relations between the state and the municipality with regard to land tax, you could add one more group of compensates, such as large families, families with several children? Or would local authorities be able to introduce more of these exceptions and this would have solved the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U226	During the last parliamentary term, we gave local governments the right to exempt all permanent residents from land tax. At the moment, I think that the catalogue of such exceptional persons would be very diverse, and we will finally come to the conclusion that this is a very large part of the population. In my introductory speech, I did not, in vain, touch on the property structure of the housing fund and on the real state of our housing fund. I believe that our housing fund is now structurally based on the decisions we made in the 1990s, which is why the share of owners is so high. If we do not want to radically start reducing the share of owners in society in one generation to 30% of the population in Central Europe, for example, then the state must find measures to offset the burden of home spending on people with very different incomes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U227	Thank you, Urmas Reinsalu! No further questions for you. Thank you very much. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U228	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee had a draft law number 51, which is a draft law exempting homeowners from land tax, for the first time, on 19 May. Then procedural decisions were taken to discuss it in the Commission on 30 May and to direct the Chamber to 31 May, i.e. today. A substantive debate took place on 30 May. As a representative of the initiators, Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica, presented the draft. Mr Reinsalu has given a relatively comprehensive overview of the objectives of the draft here in two hours. I repeat, this is an exemption for homeowners from land tax and therefore a reduction in home expenses. The Commission was also invited by the Minister of Finance and representatives of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. In the Commission, the opinion of the Government of the Republic was distributed, which was clearly supportive. At the same time, the Government of the Republic, when expressing its support, considered it necessary to complete the draft after discussing a few issues. We can do this between two readings if the first reading is successful today. I will now give a quick overview of the issues that were being dealt with in the Commission. All these issues have been covered here today, and even twice or three times more in depth than in the Commission. But briefly, the content of the debate was as follows. Questions were asked about the purpose of the draft. The purpose of the draft is to grant an exemption which should relate to the residence of the taxpayer. Applicants for exemption should not receive rental and rental income at the same time. There was talk of a possible change in the title and of the need to change it. This is also what the Ministry of Finance referred to in its letter. The Commission took the view that this would be addressed: the title would be revised technically so that it would include the name of the law to be amended. The Commission was, of course, discussing compensating for the reduction of the local government's revenue base, which has been discussed for a very long time in this Chamber today. It was found that the basis for compensation still needs to be discussed, with a wide range of options in the future. The Government of the Republic, headed by the Ministry of Finance, will deal with this. The whole issue will arise mainly in 2013 if, according to this draft, land tax exemptions are to take effect. The impact on local budgets is around EUR 17 million. There was also talk of exemption from land tax in the context of the land destination. Between the first and second readings, it is expected that the draft will be clarified in the sense that the land tax will be freed from the surface of the residential land and also of the underground land forming part of the rural development land. In this respect, clarification should be made between the two readings. The quality of the draft explanatory memorandum, which has been discussed today, was also discussed. The Commission will certainly make the necessary amendments to the draft and will draw up a new explanatory memorandum. The meeting also discussed the impact of the legislative amendment on the economy. Urmas Reinsalu has already explained this. It was asked whether representatives of local governments' associations had been aligned with the question of whether they had been consulted and asked for their opinion. Here I announce that on 6 June we will have a meeting with representatives of the local governments, the taxpayers' association, the owners' association and other interest groups. We've all invited each other to the table. After all these things had been discussed, the Commission took the following decisions. The first decision was to put the draft on the agenda on 31 May, although the decision had already been taken earlier and to close the first reading. There were six against three and two abstentions. The Commission therefore supported the completion of the first reading. The second proposal was to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 noon on 3 June. There were six against five, no abstentions. This proposal was therefore also supported by the Commission. The last decision voted was to propose that the second reading be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu on 9 June after the completion of the first reading. It was supported by 6 and 5 members of the Commission, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U229	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U230	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Your presentation made it sound like you also understood in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the law cannot deprive cities and municipalities of tax revenue without reducing their duties or compensating for that tax revenue. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs then take the view that this law could not be adopted until the compensation mechanism was clearly debated? Otherwise, this bill would simply not comply with the rules if it were adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U231	Good questioner! I will say in advance that, no, this position was not shaped by the Commission among its members. Urmas Reinsalu, as the representative of the initiators of the draft, pointed out such an interesting nuance, which I think everyone in the Chamber might know that it is a state tax, in which the state does not really have the obligation to provide local authorities with this revenue base. However, the Coalition has agreed that a solution to the problem will be found in the context of 2013. Such a political signal has been clearly sent out by the coalition, and it will certainly be the coalition when the time comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U232	Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U233	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I am sorry that I have not been in the Chamber or heard during your speech, perhaps you have already spoken about this. But please tell me whether you have discussed this compensation mechanism in the Commission. It seems that this is quite an interesting question, as the land tax rate varies between municipalities. What principles will this mechanism work on? Are you going to compensate everyone on the basis of the same percentage, or are you going to rely on how much the land tax was collected in the previous years? In this case, what to do with municipalities where land tax has already been abolished, such as Harku municipality? Perhaps by 2013, more municipalities have come. Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U234	First of all, I'm gonna tell you that I always advise you to stay in the hall. Then you'll know what they're saying. Maybe you can't hear everything in the hallway. However, as far as your question is concerned, the compensatory mechanism is indeed an issue that must now be dealt with. There are several ways of doing this: through possible compensatory funds, through land re-evaluation or in some other way. It should not be forgotten that the money received by the state as revenue is not a 'one-sided pipe'. There are different sources of revenue, and perhaps there is a possibility that, thanks to the rise in the economy, we will be compensated for it. Certainly this topic is up, but do not forget that it will become topical in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U235	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U236	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Sven, tell me how much you discussed in the Commission that Estonia actually goes against the current that the rest of the developed world is going through with this law. After all, the OECD and IMF have offered to tax more land and properties to Estonia. I'm asking for interest. For example, my uncle in Canada pays $300 a month at Calgary for his 700-square meter property. That's over $3,000 a year. In other parts of the world they go in a different direction, we go in the opposite direction. In monetary policy, it is not right. What did the Commission think of this, or how much did you talk about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U237	Good Lembit! The Commission did not discuss this issue. If you were in the Chamber earlier, you should know that an analogous question was asked by Urmas Reinsalu and he gave an answer as representative of the initiators of the draft. He thus had the opportunity to explain his position on the matter as a politician. But if you ask me that now, I will honestly announce that I will join one hundred percent of Urmas Reinsalu's opinions. The subject, as such, all that is being written to us, all the proposals that are being made to us are not to be fulfilled, but to be of an advisory nature. Mr Reinsalu gave a very good example, in my opinion, that the same institutions have once proposed freezing the top of the pension and imposing a ceiling. We didn't take that position in our time. So it's up to us to decide whether we're going one way, another way or the third. What is important is that by adopting this law, people's lives will be improved and that is why we are all chosen here. But that is really my personal position, I must apologise for not being discussed by the Commission in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U238	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U239	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! It is known that the amount of land tax depends on the regular valuation of the land. The last evaluation took place in 2001. When will a new evaluation take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U240	Good questioner! This is an important issue and important information. The true story, the initiators of the draft, the two political groups, have held consultations with the Ministry of Finance, from whom, as you know, a number of observations have come. We have also consulted the Tax and Customs Board, for example. If you ask why, it is clear that at some point certain administration issues arise. Such consultations have therefore taken place. The letter from the Ministry of Finance, which, I stress, was a supporting letter, but with certain comments, there are, in fact, solutions already in place. But I assure you that, between the first and second readings, we in the Commission will of course discuss the draft and there will certainly be a number of clarifications and other changes. The concept of residential land, the concept of dense and diffuse settlements, etc. We'll see what's been brought to our tables at second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U241	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U242	Thank you, manager. Mr Co-Rapporteur of the Commission. Is there anything left of the text we have?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U243	I think if we come to this hall by second reading, we'll see what's left and what's more. The common goal of all of us is that the draft, which we hope at one point will become a law, would be good, necessary and useful for the people. So if anyone can feel the power to make this bill better, please let me know! There will be a time until 12 noon on June 3rd, when this bill will pass the first reading today. What's there to wish for? Our point is surely one thing: Everything must be for the good of men!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U244	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U245	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs discuss the pace of further discussion of this draft? Will we be able to adopt a good bill for homeowners before Midsummer Day, or will it stay in autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U246	There are packages and drafts, including this draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax, which the coalition wants to legitimise during the spring session. I repeat, this is also the case with Bill 51. In time, I believe, we'll make it. Looking now at the deadline for tabling amendments, I expect the third reading to come in the coming weeks. So I think we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U247	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U248	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In one of your recent responses, you said a very encouraging comment that work on this draft is going on every day, and sometimes the idea may indeed be faster than fixing it in the bill. My question is this: has there been any mention in the negotiations with the Ministry of Finance in particular that a provision will be included in the draft, which will be taken into account by the date of ownership of land and the state of the population register? It's missing now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U249	One moment, I'll see, we should have this sentence right here. If all goes well and the first reading is completed, it should in the future be likely that Paragraph 11 will be supplemented by paragraph 24 according to which the exemption referred to in paragraph 22 of this section will apply from 1 January of the year following that in which the exemption is granted and, if the exemption is granted on 1 January, the exemption will apply from the same day. Such clarifications are already being made, and still with the aim of improving the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U250	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I have been following this discussion for several hours, and it seems to me that some questions have been asked four times, four times in different ways, asked and answered. But since you, as a Commission waitress, are still limited to the debate that took place in the Commission, I wanted to ask you that suddenly you have something to add on your side about this draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax. Maybe there's something left unaddressed? I'm gonna give you a chance now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U251	Good Indrek! Look, if the opponents ask that question, I can answer. If the representative of the coalition asks the same question, someone will soon rise and say that, sorry, procedural question, this was not discussed in the Commission. To rule it out, I'm not answering it at all. However, I will be brief: I strongly support this draft and I really think that by adopting this draft the Estonian citizens will actually have 17 million Estonian kroons. It's the money in their pockets for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U252	Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U253	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I don't think this was the case in the Commission, but I think you in your party have discussed how many votes this bill should bring to you in the next election, if it becomes a law now. This is a bow to one of the members of the electra at the expense of the other taxpayers!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U254	We did not really discuss this in the Commission. But if you raised such a question, I will say that we have not made such calculations, as I can imagine, in the city of Tallinn, where various taxes are levied on the one hand, and 500 kroons or now 1000 kroons of money are paid to pensioners and how many votes could come from it. We don't do that kind of calculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U255	Please, Kadri Simson, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U256	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum to the bill is full of mistakes, and it doesn't exactly understand what this law is changing. The speaker now said that the financial impact of the draft is EEK 17 million. Is it possible to clarify whether the error is in the explanatory memorandum on euro, or is there a mistake in the understanding of the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, who is talking about Estonian kroons?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U257	I'm gonna fix this right now. It's a good thing that after a three-hour debate, you're still very observant. It is true that it is EUR 17 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U258	Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U259	Thank you, Madam President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You mentioned that the law would enter into force on 1 January 2013. My question has something to do with this. Did the Commission discuss the entry into force of the law at an earlier time, let us say, on 1 January 2012?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U260	Thank you. No, it wasn't. True story, it wasn't. At the moment, only 1 January 2013 will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U261	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U262	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question for you as a board member. How did this law get on the agenda if it is contrary to the norm rules of the drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu? It's a new law, it's not a law change. Neither the introductory part nor the implementing provisions, nor the Estonian language nor the norm nor the norm of nor does it take into account the powers of constitutional institutions and local authorities and the rights of self-regulation. It's not all here. On behalf of many members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to answer the question of how such a bill will reach our agenda at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U263	According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu Board puts drafts on the agenda in accordance with the proposals of the committees. That's how the bill gets on the agenda. The Board of the Riigikogu does not control typographical errors or wording. Please, the second procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U264	Then I'd like to know what your office is up to. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as in most committees, the majority of the votes are in excess of that any fantasy in any form can reach you. But you have been appointed to comply with the regulations in force in the Riigikogu. You're the one who accepted the document. Why aren't you complying with the current requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-31_U265	Thank you. The third item will continue to be dealt with at tomorrow's session, on 1 June and on the point where it was not completed today. Let me remind you that today the establishment of a support group for children and families is taking place in this Chamber. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
