ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-18_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, would anyone like to hand over drafts and enquiries? There's no call. Now the messages. First of all, the Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law amending § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act, initiated on 14 April, and appointed the Social Affairs Committee as the commission. Secondly, I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Thirdly, last Thursday, an Association of National Minorities Envoys was formed and Estonian-Canada, Estonian-Macedonia, Estonian-Portugal and Estonian-Belarusian parliamentary groups were formed. Good Riigikogu! Today, after the plenary session, the following parliamentary groups will meet in this Chamber: Estonia-Croatia, Estonia-Georgia, Estonia-France, Estonia-Ukraine and Estonia-Holland. Immediately after the end of the meeting, the Regional Policy Support Group and the Valgamaa Support Group will also meet in this Chamber. Requesting presence check! 96 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 5. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu! The draft agenda drawn up by the Bureau this week has been distributed to you. As no proposals were received from the Riigikogu committees on the agenda of this working week, the agenda only includes a free microphone on Monday and Question Time on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the approval of this working week's agenda. Please vote! 94 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft agenda, no one opposed, with two abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Since no answer has been agreed for today, I would ask you to sign up for a free microphone speaker after my hammer hit.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-18_U2	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-18_U3	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Eesti Päevaleht writes that nature cheers and sings, and Eesti Päevaleht writes another, second and third. However, one of the most serious economic news of last week was that, according to Eurostat, prices in Estonia increased by 5.2% compared to March last year. That is where we will be the first of the European countries. True, the current state of the world economy and the projected trend will provide strong support for price increases in the near future and, unfortunately, also in the coming years. Of course, almost no one is happy about this. Someone he'll be happy for, but very few. What can a small country like us do to prevent these price increases from hitting our people, our businesses, our life and our business environment so painfully that they do not hurt us so badly? Today I want to talk about the increase in electricity prices, which today's Estonian Päevaleht has pointed out very sharply on its front page. What dangers do we face in this regard, and what can our government, which our Ministry of Economic Affairs, do to prevent this price increase from hitting our domestic consumers, our small and large businesses so painfully? I've told you at least a dozen times about this remote control that the price of electricity is what is at home and what the company pays is made up of three main components. One is the price of so-called active energy. This is the market price, which is said to be rising and which is practically one third of what consumers are paying for electricity today. Another third is network charges, so-called electricity transport. That's almost a third, too. The third third is taxes: excise duty, renewable energy tax and VAT. The third component, of course, concerns domestic consumers. Where can our government, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance contribute? Those are the two-thirds. In one third, you can make a very serious contribution, which the previous government has also done for four years, raised its excise duty, raised VAT, raised the tax on renewable energy and increased it to a third so. The second part, where the government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs can also have a say, is how freely we allow Eesti Energia to operate in networks. Are we giving them the opportunity to raise the price there by 13% or 18% With the next round, Elering will also want to increase her network fee. The Minister of Economic Affairs didn't want to give me the number he definitely knows because it scares him. This number, I can speculate on, is 30 to 40% or even more. Look at what happened to the electricity prices of large companies. It increased by 30 to 40% from the average in companies, even by 50%, but it was said that the increase would be 10% or 15%. I want to put the pressure on all of us to put pressure on the government here. Let's take a serious look at this share of electricity taxes and, second, electricity transport, network charges. These are places where you have to keep a strong finger on it, because you can write all kinds of investments there. There's one key, both for Elering and for the distribution network. So today, on this ringing and raging spring day, I would like to put it to all of us so that we can think about it, because the rise in electricity prices will be followed by an increase in other prices. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-18_U4	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. There's no more calls. That means the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 3.09 p.m.
