ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U1	Dear fellow Members, Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic! Good guests, Question Time Watchers! Let's start Question Time on December 7, 2011. First, we'll run a presence check. 36 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 65 are missing. Good fellows! Since quite a few questions have been registered today, I do not think that there is a need to set limits to the additional questions. We can go through all the questions. Let's start the briefing. Today's Question Time will be attended by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U2	Let's get to the first question. It is presented by Kalle Laanet, member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The subject is the security of the European Union. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U3	Good manager! Prime Minister and Minister! While the topic of residence permits has risen quite strongly in Estonia for the media event of recent days, business with them, Saturday 3 December Delfi writes that it is possible to buy Estonian, Latvian, Romanian or Bulgarian citizenship for 16000 euros from the Russian website www.ppcz.sz. Are you familiar with this information? Have you discussed this with the security structures and have you also discussed this with your colleagues from these countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U4	In fact, it is not known that someone is selling Romanian citizenship in Estonia. But I don't see much of a way to get involved in this. I think that the scandal that exists in Estonia today is already big enough to deal with it. I can't handle the whole world's trouble. The Romanians must be working on it when someone is dealing with Romanian nationality. However, we are still dealing with the granting of residence permits to foreigners, possibly on fictitious terms, and unethical, perhaps illegal, business. I think we have a lot to face up to these issues, let other countries deal with their own problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U5	The first question to be specified, Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I would add that this is also an alleged sale of Estonian citizenship, not just that of Latvia, Romania or Bulgaria. All of them are claimed to be available on the same website, to order this service from there. But that's it. My next question concerns our internal security structures, specifically the Police and Border Guard Board. Do you think that this agency has been sufficiently clear and adequately able to carry out its tasks since the creation of the integrated body in 2010, or that certain changes have caused confusion? According to my feeling, this new change, which is being discussed in the Riigikogu, could cause even more confusion. I mean the draft centralization. Maybe we should wait for it? But yes: how do you assess the work of the current Police and Border Guard Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U7	Thank you. I value the work of the Police and Border Guard Board very highly. Of course, it is not enough to adopt an individual act to do one single agency. It is not the establishment of an institution born on the basis of a momentary decision; it is still a process. Inevitably, it will take time for a single working culture to emerge in the new large institution to be fully understood. A year or two is actually a very short time. I certainly do not share the view of those people who think that perhaps this joint institution should be reversed. You don't have to spoil that hope for anyone. When dealing with matters in a simplified way, it can be argued that, in the same way as moving twice equals one fire, one reorganisation, addition and then reversal of the addition is equal to the liquidation of the institution. So the decision has been made. The developments so far have been quite good, the reduction in crime is obvious, and synergies have also emerged. But, of course, in order for the institution to start breathing in one rhythm, it will take some time. I would like to parallel the move of the Ministry of Education and Research to Tartu. There, too, the Ministry did not operate smoothly; it took time. However, I think they are working very well now and the government is very pleased with the activities of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U8	Second point, Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I certainly agree with you in this regard that nothing can be turned back, we only have to move forward. The question is how long steps need to be taken and when we will take the next step forward. Is it right today if we do not have another new change in the form we were hoping to have started working on the new institution? That is my key question. And the second question, which is relevant to this, is that, suddenly, this scandal of residence permits that has shaken our media and country today has nothing to do with the fact that the new system has not worked very well?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U10	If anyone's done a bad thing, it's up to whoever's done the bad thing. Whether a crime has been committed or an unethical act has to be determined by a very careful and detailed investigation. Under no circumstances do I want to blame the Police and Border Guard Board or its Citizenship and Migration Department for what happened. In my opinion, they have done their job correctly. They have handled the materials carefully, but the law has allowed somebody to circumvent the meaning of the law and, of course, the result now is very regrettable. But it is the Citizenship and Migration Department that has noticed that the point of the law has been violated. We have established the immigration limit for foreigners, above all, in the hope that people who are coming to Estonia who are badly needed for our business, education, especially higher education. But this approach has so far been beautifully mechanical and so far it has not been brave to say 'no' according to needs. Once the formal criteria are met, the answer is "yes'. That's the principle we're gonna have to go through again. However, the Migration Department has discovered such misuses and a reversal procedure has already been initiated in 65 cases. Criminal cases have also been started, but they relate in particular to the counterfeiting of signatures or documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U11	And now seven questions registered on site. Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U12	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Yesterday, with regard to the residence permit business, Jaanus Rahumägi appeared in public, who suggested that this scandal had come to the public because Minister Vaher had the idea of restoring the Central Criminal Police. From your point of view, is this the official position of the Reform Party, or is this a personal reflection of the Chairman of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities of the previous Riigikogu on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U13	I'm sure it's a flash of thought. This is by no means an argument, as the arguments to support it cannot be found. I spoke to a person in the Citizenship and Migration Department today. He assured me that for the first time, they noticed that everything wasn't okay, this year in April-May. Follow-up checks on persons who were granted a residence permit on the basis of their membership of the company's management began already in July. But what has been said by the Mount of Peace that he knew about it even before the elections, can't be true. The Defence Police did not have or could have had this data at the time because the Police and Border Guard Board, its Citizenship and Migration Department, had not discovered anything by then. So I don't know what his thoughts are based on. You should ask him yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U14	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! With regard to the scandal on the sale of residence permits, you have made it clear that this threatens the security of the Estonian state. As we remember, years ago Signe Kivi resigned from cultural capital in connection with the loss of money, and so did Minister Maripuu during the previous Riigikogu, as some pensions were not paid due to IT disruptions in time. Do you think that the confusion in these ministries was a greater security risk than what has happened now in the Mehir and Parts ministries? Don't you think it's high time these ministers resigned?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U16	This is primarily up to the ministers themselves. Whether or not this so-called residence permit business is a security risk is precisely an explanation of the investigation. We cannot now say that this has already posed a threat to Estonia's security. The risk, yes, there is, but whether this risk has materialised or not, I can't confirm right now. I would rather assume that there has been no damage to national security, however, but there has certainly already been damage to the state's reputation. But it is up to the individual ministers and the Riigikogu to decide whether to resign. However, I expect a very thorough investigation to be carried out before such very important decisions are made. And I believe that the Riigikogu commission is the most appropriate for carrying out such an investigation. It is not conceivable that state officials will evaluate the ethics of the conduct of Riigikogu members or ministers. It is not only the question of whether a crime has been committed or not committed, but also the question of the ethical nature of behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U17	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! The idea of the law is certainly not to trade residence permits and, of course, bringing Russia into the criminal underworld to Estonia is already a matter of international security. This is a Schengen visa. I am asking: have there been no signals from the European Union about this? That's the first half of the question. Secondly, if the prosecutor's office has refused to investigate, there is no reason why this is perhaps a circular defence: the same system where the problem arises is also monitoring?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U19	I believe in the Estonian state and believe in the independence of its law enforcement agencies. I do not believe that our Police and Border Guard Board, or the Defence Police or the Prosecutor's Office, can in any way be politically biased by political parties. I expect these institutions to do their job as well as they can. So far, some information about someone trying to tilt the investigation, I don't have it at my disposal. I don't think the public has it either. I'm assuming it hasn't worked. There have been no signals from our partners in the European Union so far. We cannot now say to what extent residence permits have been granted on a fictitious basis. The primary survey, however, has been a very superficial observation, rather confirms that violations have been committed by people who have not been very organised to mediate residence permits. Well, there's been a falsification that has led to the initiation of criminal cases, but in the case of those who systematically deal with it, it might be that everything's been bullshit. In itself, for example, it is not possible to blame someone for mediating the service of visas. It is only natural that tourism companies negotiate visas for tourists, but if obtaining visas is accompanied by counterfeiting, then things are wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U20	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U21	Thank you. Prime Minister! Like you, I believe in the Estonian state and its law enforcement bodies. You said that decisions can be made when the matter is thoroughly investigated. I would remind you that a year ago there was a problem with the money from Russia to build the Lasnamäe church, a scandal broke out. Kapo started looking into it, and one day, when the election results started to come out, it was all of a sudden over and we still don't know if the money was coming from somewhere or not. How do you get the assurance that this time, we're gonna find out what's going on? That's the first half of the question. Second half: it's been a week. We have heard almost nothing from you as Prime Minister about the work of your cabinet ministers or their suspicions. I am referring to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior. However, a year ago around the same time before the new year, you were on television every night to speak and comment on the last step of the kapo.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U22	All right. You must understand, too, that, to put it mildly, you will be amazed when you speak of church money again. No, there hasn't been any problem with the church money, neither you, nor the chaos, nor me. Build a church or let it stop. But the obvious problems have been that the chairman of the Centre Party has been dating a senior KGB officer asking for money to run an election campaign. It's certified information. You can also ask your party chairman once again about this proof, who has also listened to the recordings, claiming that his story was recorded, the red light was on when he fell asleep in coffee. This is not a topic to discuss whether it has been proven that it is a question of asking for money for an election campaign from a foreign country. It's 100 percent proven. But once again, it has to be said that mere questioning is not a criminal matter, is not punishable by criminal law. Secondly, information obtained by different specialised services is often not available as evidence in court. This is not only the case in Estonia, it is like this all over the world. But the fact that the truth has been found is 100% certain. May your commission of truth claim anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U23	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U24	Thank you very much. I will ask you a question as Prime Minister and President of the Reform Party. If there were a similar incident in your political party that seriously undermines the reputation of the Republic of Estonia through Estonia, citizens of the Russian Federation who are undoubtedly legally infiltrating the European Union, would your party's respective ministers resign or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U25	I would, however, draw a very clear line between the people who have done this and the party. Let us acknowledge that there have also been people among the members of the Social Democratic Party who have committed crimes in the same way among the members of the Reform Party. It is important that the party clearly distance itself from either unethical acts or crimes. And in my opinion, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, in the name of the chairman, Mart Laar, has done so very clearly. He has unambiguously said that this business is not acceptable to the Union of Fatherland and Res Publica, even a thousand times. For me, this is a very clear distance. I am not treating this case as a party case, but clearly as a case for which specific culprits must be responsible, whether it be a moral responsibility or a responsibility to the law, should the investigation establish such responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U26	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Several officials who have played a role in examining the background of residence permits in the course of their duties have also stated here in the committees that, after the new Aliens Act came into force, the so-called political order was to bring maximum investment into Estonia with them. The background was often formally reviewed, Estonian databases were only reviewed, the outside world was not aligned, the possible links were not investigated on the Internet, etc. I have another question for you. What is your opinion whether the law enforcement authorities of the Estonian state should give priority to the security perspective and then to the feasibility of investments or vice versa when carrying out this verification?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U28	The state must behave in good faith. We must not assume that all people who want to come to Estonia as tourists, if it is a visa requirement for tourists from countries, or who want to come here to work, to read lectures at universities, to program Skype or also to weld into BLRT, are all criminals and villains and pose a security threat to the Estonian state. The inspection shall be carried out. What is the nature of this control, that is not, of course, the subject I should be talking about here in front of the television cameras, but, of course, at the moment, it must be stated that control has not been sufficient. Surfing in the vastness of the Internet can, of course, lead to some results, and this method is also being used. But it's not as simple as some imagine. For example, we make it a precondition that these people, these applicants for residence permits, must bring proof from their country that they have not been punished. However, the criminal record usually belongs to the State and the person, and is generally not issued to other countries, unless a criminal case concerning that particular person has been initiated in that other country. Neither does information about punishment with very friendly countries be openly communicated against Estonia. So security or background checks will remain problematic in the future. However, the state must have the right to say no even if it has a mere suspicion. So far, our case law has also been that such cases have not really been dealt with by the case law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U29	Let us now go to the seventh issue recorded on the ground. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As I understand it, opinions such as those expressed by Mr Rahumägi do not need to be taken seriously. But then it doesn't have to be taken seriously that the Home Office officials have been dealing with this issue since the summer of this year. This was also reflected by the Delfi portal, for example, by the names of those who dealt with it. How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U31	I am so sorry, but the point of this question did not come to me. Could you be more specific? This is not under the Rules of Procedure, but what was the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U32	I think we can get past the rules of the house and the rules of procedure here. Please return the microphone to Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U33	Sorry, it came out too long! In short, can the information that the Ministry of the Interior has been dealing with this matter since the summer not be taken seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U34	Thank you for your question. There's no question about that information. The dynamics of the issuing of residence permits have been such that fewer residence permits were issued in 2009 compared to 2008 and this figure increased in 2010. But this increase was not very dramatic, and it is claimed that the number of students and students studying in Estonia has also increased significantly. The increase in 2011 has been significant. In particular, the number of applicants for residence permits who have applied for authorisation on the basis that they belong to the management of the company in Estonia has increased dramatically. As early as the summer, Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, responded by setting the relevant limit value as far as I can remember, it is a limit value of 580. This meant that the residence permits could no longer be issued on this basis, the limit had already been exhausted. And then a cross-check was started on all persons who had been granted a residence permit on the basis of their membership of the company's management. The case law. So far, the case law on residence permits in Estonia has been such that our courts have regarded it as a human right. If a person has lived in Estonia for 20 years, how do you take that permit away from him? Or in the case of marriage, well, that's the basic human right to be able to live together. How do you take your license off? And this practice has somehow also begun to translate into the fact that if someone just wants to come to work in Estonia, he should have the right to do so. But working in Estonia cannot be a human right for anyone. Estonia must have the right to choose who works here, who does not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U35	Minister, your time is up. As we agreed at the beginning, seven questions on this subject could be put on the spot. Viktor Vassilyev, I apologize to you! This question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U36	Let us move on to the next question. It has been submitted by the member of the Riigikogu Ester Tuiksoo, corresponding to the member of the Government of the Republic Helir-Valdor Seeder. The subject is the environment. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Rural and environmental issues are undoubtedly related to agriculture. You certainly know that at present, the MAK measure provides support in Natura 2000 network areas of EUR 109,9 per hectare of forest land in the target protection zone and EUR 60 per hectare of forest land in the restricted zone. Please comment on whether you consider this rate to be a fair remuneration for forest land owners in order to compensate for the limitation of their activities in nature reserves. What do you think of that anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U38	Thank you for your question. I may not be the most competent expert to assess whether the amount of compensation is the most appropriate. But I know how it's agreed and why it's so big. In particular, the size of such compensations is the framework for our overall possibilities in the case of the rural development plan. For this period, we have agreed and confirmed the volume of the rural development plan with the European Commission, and we do not have the possibility to increase it until the end of the period. The specific basis for the amount of compensation in the target zones and restricted zones is the calculation of the loss of income for the forest owner. The average costs that forest management itself could include in such cases have also been taken into account. On the basis of such estimates, the rate per hectare has been established. As I said, on the one hand, the basis is accounting and, on the other hand, the overall financial possibilities of the rural development plan. As the amounts of the rural development plan have been approved for this period, i.e. until the end of 2013, I think that it is certainly no longer possible to amend this regulation and change that rate during this period. What will happen in the next financial period 2014 to 20.20 will, of course, be the subject of discussions. Everything depends on the overall possibilities of the RDP. All proposals and financial opportunities can be considered when developing a new rural development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U39	The first question to be specified, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, A few weeks ago, I spoke to the Minister for the Environment on the same subject and he promised to contact you to discuss these issues of compensation, both as regards the current financial period and as regards the future. I would like to ask you this question: have you already met with the Minister for the Environment to discuss this issue and, if so, have you discussed specifically the extension of the land subject to the conservation restrictions in Haanja? What kind of information do you have on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U41	The Minister of the Environment has contacted me and we have discussed this issue on the phone and by e-mail. We are definitely going to meet each other, and I think it has to be done repeatedly. So the debate has begun. But my understanding of the current options is that it is not possible to increase the compensation rates for the current budgetary period until the end of 2013. And for a number of reasons. First of all, we have 90000 hectares of Natura forest areas alone in Estonia, for example, and currently Natura forest payments have been requested for some 55000 hectares of land. Every year, this application has also increased territorially. The right to claim compensation is, as I said, up to 90000 hectares. So we now have plenty of forest owners who have not yet realised this possibility and who will certainly seek compensation on the basis of this same rate in the coming years. This means that the overall amount paid out by the state will certainly increase in the coming years already in this period and we must find a financial cover for it. However, I think that, in the discussions of the next budget period, we cannot only focus on the level of compensation, but we must also focus on whether we can compensate for all the restrictions and whether all the conservation restrictions imposed are feasible for the Estonian state at all. In addition to Natura forest areas, there are semi-natural communities, the limits of which we directly compensate for the amounts of the common agricultural policy, in addition to Natura sites, agricultural land. These are the direct nature conservation restrictions that we are compensating for from the CAP budget. In addition, there are also environmental constraints related to agricultural production.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U42	Minister, your time is up! The second point, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your assurance that you have been thinking about this. But do you not think that human activity will eventually begin to die out in such major nature reserves, and this will also have a very strong impact on regional policy? I've thought you were a man of honour. However, what can we say today, for example, to the people of Haanja Nature Park, so that they do not abandon their natives because they cannot make firewood out of their forests for the winter? What should we say to them today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U44	I certainly consider regional policy and the provision of life in rural areas to be very important. But I stress once again that we also need to apply restrictions and protect the environment as we can. The target zone really means that there is no economic activity at all, even firewood cannot be stored out of its forest. This does not only go away from the extent to which the State can compensate for this restriction, but also from whether a specific restriction is always feasible. We must certainly take this very seriously as well. So not only must we discuss and argue about the amount of compensation, but we must also find out the feasibility and extent of these restrictions. This, of course, is the competence of the Ministry of the Environment. But I believe that with our environmental protection and compensation, if not beyond our possibilities, we have already come close to the maximum limit. Rather, perhaps the solution would be to alleviate restrictions in certain areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U45	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U46	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. A little from another field, but from the environment. In a news show yesterday, Vyacheslav Leedo boasted that Saaremaa would suffer 50,000 cattle. I think a lot of people who can calculate say that in about a year and a half these animals would eat the whole island out. At the same time, local people from Central Estonia have signalled that the concentration of certain dairy cattle and farms is beginning to interfere with their lives. Is there any kind of limited concentration of meat flock or dairy herd or pig farming in regions, for example, per number of hectares or per county? I'm just worried about the islanders. It's got great winds, and when the island's out, it's just a pity for these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U47	It is true that the number of meat cattle in Estonia is growing very rapidly, and this is certainly positive. However, our potential is much greater when we now have both dairy cows and meat cattle. So, in general, there is no need to worry about this in Estonia that there are too many of them. On the contrary, the number of dairy cows has fallen dramatically in the last few decades. If we are also talking about milk production, for example, the Netherlands, I will now say by heart, is producing 11 million tonnes of milk per year, Estonia 600000 tonnes per year. And Estonia's territory is bigger. I do not want to say that we need to reach the same level of intensity as in the Netherlands, but we have a huge unexploited potential for agricultural production. It is certainly not a threat to the number of meat cattle that are currently in Estonia or which have been planned for manufacturers in the near future, in any way, to our environment, or to the exploitation of our natural potential. On the contrary, semi-natural communities, abandoned meadows and pastures, which we are currently mowing by means of subsidies simply for mowing, could rather keep sheep and meat cattle in order. In this way, we would be worthy of this grass for the economic benefit of all of us. We have enough untapped potential. However, the problem is certainly that the balance between production and people's habitats can be out of place. Production must not be too close to habitats; large farms must not be too close to habitats. Of course, this must be taken into account primarily by local authorities in the framework of the implementation of the planning and construction law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U48	And now two questions registered on the spot. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Esther and I have repeatedly approached both the Minister for the Environment and the Director-General of the Environmental Board, and I am pleased that you too are aware of the topic of Haanja Nature Park, even though you have now started to contradict the Minister for the Environment a little bit. I would like to blackmail one promise here. If you really want to continue the dialogue with the Minister for the Environment, would you be willing to involve all the people involved in these restrictions in the debate? In many cases, people are left uninformed and new confusions arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U50	In discussions and disputes, the truth will be revealed! On quite a number of issues, of course, we already have different perspectives with the Minister of the Environment due to our different positions. But I'm very familiar with Haanja's problems. The last time I went to Haanja this fall, I was forced to sit there on the tractor wheel, and I had to drive in the fields. So I am well aware of the hilly landscape, the nature conservation restrictions and other peculiarities that Haanja has. But, of course, we are ready and willing to cooperate with all the people involved in this matter and involve them in the decision-making process. No one will stand aside, you can count on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U51	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am glad to hear that you are concerned about regional policy and the viability of rural areas. But, as we know, nature conservation restrictions affect not only landowners who deliver these restrictions, but also local authorities. Perhaps, on the basis of regional policy and the need to ensure the sustainability of local authorities, we should retable the law amending the Land Tax Act, which unfortunately did not go very well in the previous composition? Perhaps we could work on compensating local authorities for smaller land tax receipts from protected lands?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U53	This is a broader issue since it concerns both land tax and restrictions. Neither in Estonia will there be compensation for all the restrictions imposed on people's activities, including the activities of owners. We take the restrictions on heritage protection or how expensive it is for one person or another to meet the requirements when repairing these buildings, not to mention later use or changing the purpose of the use. There are, in fact, many of these restrictions arising from the law, and we will certainly not be able to compensate all of them for their implementation from the state budget. Where exactly this balance is located, I cannot say here today, I am not the greatest expert in this area. But now we can rely on the laws in force and on those areas where compensation is provided for, as in the case of nature conservation restrictions in target zones and restricted zones. That's all I'd be doing right now. As regards compensating for any other restrictions in force in Estonia, this is the subject of a wider debate. This should certainly be raised every year during the state budget procedure, along with the rest of the tax laws and, as far as possible, take a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U54	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U55	Let's move on to question three. It has been submitted by Inara Luigas, member of the Riigikogu, Jürgen Ligi, member of the Government of the Republic, and the subject is the possible lowering of Estonia's sovereign rating. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister of Finance! Ten years ago, when the rating agency Standard & Poor's raised Estonia's sovereign rating, we were very pleased and believed that the assessment we were given was correct and fully responding to our aspirations. Vahur Kraft, then Governor of Eesti Pank, said that raising the rating is a remarkable recognition for Estonia at a time when there is uncertainty about the outlook for the world economy and added that the state, at both central government and local government level, is keeping its previous economic policy commitments, including the promise to keep the budget balanced. All years of small Estonia have been very ambitious and, in a sense, our monetary policy has been in order, the state budget has been balanced and Estonia's public debt has been the smallest in Europe. Now, in our case, the rating agency does not want to cut one rating ball, but even two. My question is: what was wrong with us?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U57	I just wanted to thank you for a meaningful question, but it didn't work out very well for you. Because instead of ten years, you could have looked three months ago when the same agency raised our rating by two steps. This in itself is a small perilous situation, how did they not yet see the things that we have already seen in our economic forecast in August? We haven't done anything wrong. This has been demonstrated in Standard & Poor's analysis. There is nothing to blame for local activity, but there is nothing to blame for the place where we belong to Europe and, unfortunately, to one of its parts, the euro zone, which is certainly not worse off than the European Union as a whole. This time, this assessment is very subjective. It is very general and, at the same time, very subjective to a single zone, as if discriminatory or what that word could be, and very general to individual members. Estonia's finances are in a very special situation in Europe. In their initial analysis, they even criticised our banking as a risk. Just a copy-paste way. We reacted quickly, and they cleaned up that part, but the rating warning remained the same. Our banks just got a rating growth assessment, it was a week or two ago. In this situation, copying the overall text of the euro area to a single country in this way is a little embarrassing. Apart from the fact that this was such a very political pressure-like thing in the run-up to the General Assembly, which is now clearly stated by analysts. In this sense, I am disappointed that, for example, today's Postman has not appreciated this criticism we have made very well. This criticism is still supported by experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U58	The first question to be specified, Inara Luigas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! I don't understand why we take this attitude, that if credit rating agencies raise our rating, we believe in them, but if there's a risk that they're going down, we're saying they're not doing the right thing, they're stupid, and we're bringing in all sorts of things. Don't you think that already being in the same boat with other Member States gives credit rating agencies the justification to lower the rating rate in Estonia? Why do rating agencies still think that our rating rate could fall to two balls?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U60	I'll remind you again. In August, two of our ratings were raised, and they appreciate that the situation is perhaps the same as before. But I'll explain why we react like this. For two years, European finance ministers have boasted credit rating agencies as a pro-active element in an economic environment that misses booms and amplifies crises. Their predictions or estimates tend to be self - fulfilling predictions; they generate more panic. I've been rather critical of the critics of credit rating agencies so far. Clean up your home and then criticize the mirror! This time, however, there is a problem with the mirror. This time I joined the rest of the finance ministers for the first time. The mirror is curved and the mirror shows the light in the eye rather than reflecting the situation as it should do. I have already said the facts: if the average loan burden in the euro area is about 85% of GDP and Estonia 6%, then the estimate is that Estonia is the same as the others, in fact inadequate. Another problem is that GDP is the main indicator. In this respect, we are in a worse position than our substantive ability and commitment to fulfill our responsibilities. I compare that we are now in the same position as Slovenia, we are in the same position as the Czech Republic, although our experience of political decision-making and our ability are better, our debt burden is lower, our deficit is non-existent, unlike theirs. Slovenia, for example, which is constantly going through the gauntlet of a referendum with rather simple decisions that we make quickly, is undoubtedly not such an effective lender. His problems are bigger. I will only compare Estonia with those countries that are on the same level according to Standard & Poor's. But what I'm saying is, we're chronically underestimated. I've always said that, and not just about that. Just because it's small.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U61	Minister, your time is up. The second point of clarification, Inara Luigas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U62	Honourable Minister of Finance! I agree that all Member States should look in the mirror for a moment. Don't you think that the credit rating agency has actually been X-rays to Estonia and reviewed our entire monetary policy. There have been major changes in our monetary policy recently. The Treasury will manage the reserves of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund, and we will still use these reserves to channel certain cash flows. We have given very generous guarantees to EFSF in one third of the state budget, we will make an ESM contribution of EUR 30 million next year, etc. Do you not think that the credit rating agencies have seen through that, in the case of such a structure and generous financial separation, our monetary policy is not sustainable and we are rather on the verge of large borrowings?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U63	I don't think so. A credit rating agency assesses the country's likely ability to pay loans and, in our case, this probability is still at AAA level. We have a problem with a small GDP and, of course, a history during which there have been vibrations, especially the boom that has been behind us for a while and the crisis that followed. But they can't assess our true commitment enough. In any case, our position is better than that of the countries near us on the same stick, and the sustainability of our budget is by no means a question. It is a question of subjective assessment, a well-controversial analysis and its very strange timing. Once again, for the first time, I am in a position where I criticise the credit rating agency, although this could have been done earlier because of the underestimation. However, the main conclusion is the same: credit rating agencies have been important government discipliners. Unfortunately, Europe is a bit weak and full of governments who still need a whip. In our case, however, this whip has just missed a bit of the mark.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U64	And now five questions registered on the spot. Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U65	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It's like I don't remember changing the rating from region to region. I do not remember being fully rated for the entire Latin or South America, Southeast Asia or the Arabian Peninsula. So its purpose must be something else. You said it could have some sort of political purpose. I do not understand what kind of political objective one credit rating agency could have. Is he not, then, sovereign in his decisions as I now say? Is he not objective in his decisions? Do we have to suspect other credit rating agencies? Do we have to suspect them in the future when times change and turn?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U66	My answer is, you couldn't be political, shouldn't be. But in this case, very different experts from around the world have said that they intervened in politics, all this timing, this reasoning and this generalisation. This single-table hit was a clear message to the euro area that you should do it, do it and do it. At the same time, the message was also controversial, so what do they still give priority to now? Is it really monetary relaxation, like American-style? There is a lot of popular opinion that printing money solves problems. However, we have proved for a long time that problems must be solved in essence, not paid off, and that is why this substantive precept is a little debatable. I don't dramatize. I'm not gonna give it away and, in fact, this market control over governments seems very practical. I think it's very positive. They could simply be precise in their control, to draw attention to the right things, for example, not to come to Estonia to blame for banking as a source of risk. Scandinavian banking is relatively separate from the market, its capitalisation is excellent, Estonian banks are subject to a very high capital adequacy requirement, which is even higher. This is an absolutely extraordinary situation in Europe. So we don't have that risk for now. Not to mention the probability of our loans being paid is still high. A country that has done a great deal to escape the deficit will certainly not miss out on loans. Unless, of course, the government turns into a different government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U67	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U68	Thank you, manager. Good Minister of Finance! The state budget for next year will be adopted in this hall today. As Minister of Finance, how do you view it this day? Are you satisfied with an acceptable budget, or would you like to cut it at the last moment? This question is due to the fact that economic forecasts have been significantly curtailed. Are you sure that next year's state budget will hold water in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U69	I am, of course, a little anxious, because no one really knows what's going to happen in the economy. The markets, unfortunately, are creepy. Speculated after all, with a drop. But I have no reason to challenge the official prognosis. Since then, our official forecast has also come with better forecasts. If we add up this year or actually multiply the growth and next year's growth, then the Ministry of Finance is practically the most pessimistic. This 7% increase of this year's growth is still going to be significantly over. 3% of this area does not give rise to a level of GDP that would be very worrying. In any case, we have the ability to react, and we have proved it. If I said something to the Riigikogu, I would rather say that my changes should be made in a more cultural way. But we have been talking about this in the political groups, and the end result, hopefully, is not very bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U70	Raivo Järvi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U71	Thank you very much. My colleague Tarmo Leinatamm has already asked a little bit about the same sphere, so I would also come to a slightly more geographic dimension. These same credit rating agencies have also argued that the countries of the outermost regions of the euro area have been said exactly as they are the main drivers of anxiety. At this point, I have the question: have we not fallen into sin with them precisely because of generalisation? We're one of the Baltic States. But it's also like Finland is on the outskirts. What do they come from? Are they just throwing such slogans into the air, or is it based on some real generalization?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U72	The Finns themselves consider themselves to be the periphery of their analysis and confirm how good it is to be the periphery of a large monetary community Clearly, the position can help to maintain wealth. If you're in a wealthy neighborhood, you don't fall that low, you have a certain ability to keep your wealth thanks to the neighborhood. But while we are talking about the periphery, we are talking primarily about this under the stomach of Europe, which is still very different from the general European economy. Estonia can say that it is in a very excellent periphery. Our proximity to Scandinavia is even greater in terms of proximity than in terms of kilometres is of great help to us. For example, the content of Latvia and Lithuania is not so close. Their integration with the north is lower and has been manifested in investment, trade, economic policy and politics in general. We still have a good periphery, we form a separate area with strong banking and close economic ties.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U73	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Until last Wednesday, probably a large part of the Estonian people felt that the economic or financial situation of our country is more or less normal compared to other countries, the government and the Minister of Finance have a major role to play. Now gentlemen Stelmach and Raudne have claimed that it was thanks to their actions that we were able to increase our defence spending to 2% of GDP and that we will continue to be able to pay out teachers' salaries. How do you comment: how much did Mr Stelmach and Mr Rauds play in the fact that the Estonian state budget is more or less balanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U75	We still have finance that deals with finance, and let the business deal with itself, just as ethical rules and laws allow. I don't want to put these things together right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U76	I will conclude on this issue. Dear Members of the Government, thank you for answering your questions. Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U77	Dear Riigikogu, good colleagues! Good afternoon. We will begin the 10th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Call chair Urmas Klaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Culture presents two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Their content is that with the first draft decision we propose to appoint a colleague Mart Meri as a member of the Council of the Estonian National Library, and with the second draft decision we propose to appoint a colleague Jaak Allik as a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. Such decisions have been taken by the Committee on Culture at its meeting on 5 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U79	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U80	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. It has been signed by representatives of both the Centre Party and the Social Democrats. This is an inquiry into our institution of the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment. In fact, when the Equal Treatment Act was passed in Estonia, monitoring of this law was added to the competence of the Gender Equality Commissioner, without providing him with financial and human resources. This makes it almost impossible to carry out this task. International observers have also consistently pointed out this, and there is criticism of this in the latest report by the Council of Europe. That is what our question of understanding is about, to which we look forward eagerly to constructive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U81	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Rait Maruse! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise in the hall! Please, let's respect the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am honoured and pleased to have the draft law amending the law on political parties. The Estonian political parties represented in the Riigikogu have reached a common understanding that it is time to take a new step in civic education, strengthening party democracy and promoting international political cooperation. And this step would be to bring about the establishment of foundations for the development of democracy. A foundation for the development of democracy would be a foundation set up by a party aimed at exploring, disseminating, recording and supporting, in the public interest, a free socio-political idea and a democratic view of the weather. The foundations would have been set up by the parties, but they may not have been used to achieve the practical policy objectives of the parties. Their activities would be public, financed mainly from the state budget and supervised political party funding. In order to separate the foundation and the party, the draft provides for a number of restrictions on management, financing and supervision. The proposal to set up foundations was motivated by a number of factors; I will mention only a few of them here. Firstly, we have received invaluable and irrecoverable help in building our democracy from similar institutions in democratic Western countries. Our duty of honor would now also be to contribute and pass on our experience to other institutions and countries that build democracy. Secondly, our civil society does exist, but far from the level of development and influence we would like to see. We are calling for civil society and policy to become more systematic and world-view, involving a greater number of informed and informed people through clarification and dialogue. Our proposal was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I am pleased to hand this draft over to the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U83	Riigikogu speech chair Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby refer to Mr Pevkur, Minister for Social Affairs, on behalf of a number of members of the Centre Party Group, a question on the Gender Equality Council. In particular, on 7 April 2004 the Riigikogu passed the Act on Gender Equality, which provides for the creation of a Gender Equality Council. So far, it has not been set up by the Council, and in this regard we have a number of questions. For what reason do you consider that the establishment of the Gender Equality Council has been delayed? The Gender Equality Council confirms the broad lines of gender equality policy and presents its views to the Government of the Republic on the compliance of the national programmes submitted by ministries with § 9 of the Gender Equality Act. Who is currently carrying out the tasks assigned to the Council because the Council has not been set up? When will the formation of this council be undertaken and how will Mr Pevkur, as Minister for Social Affairs, assess the necessity of Article 11 (2) of the Gender Equality Act? This paragraph obliges the employer to collect gender-based occupational statistics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U85	Good colleagues, no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and two inquiries, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft Act approving Annex 8 to the International Convention on the Harmonization of the Conditions of Border Control of Goods, initiated on 5 December, the lead committee being the Committee on Economic Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a The draft law on the amendment of the Electricity Market Act and the related amendment of other laws, initiated on 6 December, is the Committee on Economic Affairs; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a The draft law amending the Penal Code and related laws, initiated on 6 December, is the Committee on Legal Affairs; fourthly, the National Defence Commission. a The draft law amending § 8 of the International Military Cooperation Act, initiated on 6 December, is a commission of defence. The Board of the Riigikogu has registered a member of the Group of the Riigikogu, Andres Jalaku Isamaa and Res Publica Union, and has approved him as a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Good luck to you! The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Good fellows, we're conducting a presence check! 93 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U86	Let's get to the agenda. The first item is the third reading of the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, the law relating to the transfer of the Courts' Accounting Centre to the area of government of the Ministry of Finance, the State Budget Act and the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws 101. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. Quiet in the hall, please! I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! In short, from the background of our group's vote. The bill, as we know, has specific requirements according to our constitution. This draft consists mostly of provisions on which we could even say that if so, then so. Unfortunately, the draft was presented as a cluster bill and now it has also changed. The biggest problem with this draft relates to changes relating to the basic law of the state budget. In particular, we have wanted this basic law in any way to alleviate the hijacking of social security reserves carried out by the government from its position of strength, so that there is a provision in the basic law that contracts concluded in the field of unemployment insurance and health insurance cannot in any way undermine the duties and interests of both of them by law. Unfortunately, the Commission disregarded this request. That is why our group does not support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U88	Thank you. Now I ask the representative of the Group of the Estonian Central Party for a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said many times, and I will say once again that today is a law that changes 21 laws. These are laws that are not essentially linked in any way, but are arbitrarily put together in a single package. For example, the amendment of the Copyright Act has nothing to do with the amendment of the State Budget Act, which concerns the desire of the Ministry of Finance and the right to dispose of the funds of the Health Insurance Fund. So I clearly see here the problem of ambassadors in the exercise of their mandate. There is insufficient debate in the relevant committees and, most importantly, the ambassadors are not allowed to take a stand separately for all 21 amendments to the law, as only once can be voted in favour or against. Therefore, I think that if we support this draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic now, we will consciously reduce our own fundamental rights to express our position. Therefore, this cannot be accepted by the Centre Party Group. We cannot give our vote that the fundamental principles of democracy continue to be ignored and that the principles of the Constitution are also being compromised. I ask all of you to think about this before you make your choice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U90	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Now we can start preparing the final vote on the 101. Can we go to the final vote? Dear colleagues, pursuant to the Constitution, the approval of the draft 101 requires a majority of the members of the Riigikogu, and before the final vote we will carry out a verification of the presence. 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. I will put draft 101 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 38 against and no abstentions. The law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic, the law on the salaries of senior civil servants, the laws relating to the transfer of the Courts' Accounting Centre to the area of government of the Ministry of Finance and the law on the state budget and the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws 101 has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U91	We will move to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft amendment to § 5 of the VAT Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 134 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, four against, no abstentions. Draft Act 134 amending § 5 of the VAT Act, initiated by the Monetary Commission, has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U92	We will move to the third item, which is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit and the Act amending the Law on unemployment insurance, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic in 2012. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Inara Luigas, representative of the Estonian Central Party faction, will be asked to speak in the Riigikogu chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U93	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Before the final vote on this draft law, we want to highlight once again the shortcomings of this draft law and some of the contradictions contained here. I recall the speech of the President of the State in this Chamber on 12 September. a: 'It is no longer appropriate to deal with legislative changes with a different purpose. I beg you, take your time, discuss different areas of life separately! ' But we have to admit that we have not accepted this proposal and continue to deal with the draft cluster. We cannot make decisions on one or the other amendment separately, so voting in favour or against is far from objective. Secondly, funds from the sickness fund and the unemployment fund will be consolidated in order to manage the government's cash flow more efficiently and to increase liquidity. This, however, undermines the autonomy of both the sickness fund and the unemployment fund. According to the regulation, although savings agreements are concluded between the State and the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund which regulate the taking up and use of money, it must be recognised that the State must guarantee by contract an unlimited right to use its money at any time and that the State must ensure trust in social security funds by means of a contract. I would also like to point out the impact of this bill on the state budget in the future. The financing needs of the public budget for the period 2011-2015 amount to EUR 1.2 billion. The negative cash flow can be covered by a liquidity reserve and a dedicated loan from the European Investment Bank. At the same time, there is a need to borrow further over the years or to issue bonds amounting to EUR 569 million. By the end of 2015, the volume of central government debt liabilities will rise from EUR 172 million to EUR 1076 million and the share of government debt in GDP will increase from 6.6% to 9.5%. This will take place in 2015. Annual interest costs on debt are estimated to increase from EUR 3.1 million to EUR 42.3 million. The estimated amount of available funds for the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund by the end of 2012 is EUR 557 million. The combination of these available resources with the State's liquidity reserve will enable the State to refrain from entering an expensive credit market in the coming years. However, the Ministry of Finance has far from explained how the state will behave when social security funds have a real need to use the money and the need for liquidity increases. Consolidation of the Treasury will definitely delay the borrowing of the state into the future. As far as local authorities are concerned, the amendment to the Financial Management Act of the local government unit defrauds the municipalities again. If the State, through a group account, provides itself with better liquidity and more reserves to manage cash flows, then local authorities will again...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U94	Honourable waitress! I'm sorry! Good fellows! There's a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and those colleagues who want to listen to the presentation. Please, waitress! Half-minute extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U95	Thank you. While the State, through a group account, provides itself with better liquidity as well as a larger reserve to manage cash flows, local authorities will again be subject to restrictions and will not have the opportunity to develop further. At the end of this year, the exceptional loan limit imposed in 2009 will end, but those municipalities that expected the possibility of increasing the debt burden on the basis of individual capacity and who have delayed the implementation of all investments will be disappointed if this bill enters into force, as 100% of the maximum amount of operating revenue will be postponed again by one year. Fourthly, under the law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, it must be stressed once again that there is no analysis of how this will improve the policy on alcohol, which will change in it, and precisely how much pressure this change will put on the secret market. The question of whether more money should be channelled to the Tax and Customs Board, which would organise better supervision of the secret market, would minimise this market, thus contributing to the consumption of legal alcohol, which would increase tax revenues, or increase excise duties, thereby increasing the price of legal alcohol, which would further increase the share of the secret market and have a negative impact on alcohol policy will also remain unanswered. In all these circumstances, this draft law is not supported by the Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U96	Thank you! I ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm trying to talk less about money this time. The idea of not talking about money came about because this topic has been up and hot for a long time, but it has become the impression that at least a member of the government, be it Jürgen Ligi, for example, does not understand what the debate is about. The real debate is, in my opinion, about how one country should be built up. There is one idea that a citizen who is not currently in this Chamber among 101 members of the Riigikogu will participate in organizing the life of the Estonian state the next time he goes to the voting box in the regular elections of the Riigikogu, for example in March 2015. There is another view. I believe that these two types of insurance - sickness insurance and unemployment insurance - are trying to prove this to be correct. According to this position, there are areas in which the executive power and civil society should work together in the form of a law, in order to ensure that elections do not break the backbone of these types of insurance, to ensure that they operate in a sustainable manner and are erected on a slightly wider surface than under a purely political decision. By adopting this draft as a law, the work of these types of insurance has essentially already been completed. The Estonian Employers' Confederation has called its representatives from the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund (it has been said that this council can take decisions when two thirds of the members are present) as a sign of protest and from 1 January it will call its representatives back from the Health Insurance Fund Board. No decision can be taken at any future meeting of this Council unless all the members are present, and there are also decisions that will not be adopted in the future in this Council, because the proper number of members cannot be met. The background to this draft is also that, regardless of whether we have economically good or poor years, there is one big debate on who should decide where and what to decide. I think the Estonian state is more than the Ministry of Finance. I do not think that ministers should come up with a proposal to lose their ministry every year as a black humour in the budgetary debate with the Minister for Finance, because the Ministry of Finance is the smartest of all and he knows exactly where to save something, the ministries themselves know nothing. I don't think this is the way to run a country. It's a money-centred country, it's not a people-centred country. You can't run a country like that. We are also voting against because, ultimately, the author of this idea, Jürgen Ligi, as a politician, could make it clear to himself whether next year our economy will grow by 3%, as is the result of the draft state budget, or the economy will fall by 8%, because, given the unemployment contribution rate that people will pay next year, and that the government will hijack reserves from a power position, it would be able to cope with its income and costs even if there were 110000 120000 unemployed people in Estonia, i.e. an 8% recession. Somehow the government could understand what it is doing between this 3% increase in GDP and the fall of 8%. I think they have a plan, but since there's no rhetoric and the standards of behavior are arrogant, you're gonna get bullshit.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U98	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Let us move to the preparation of the 100 final votes. Good fellows, I'll put a bill of 100 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu, 40 against, no abstentions. Draft Act 100 amending the Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U99	We move to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the Prosecutor's Office initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. We can go to the final vote on the draft. I shall put the draft to a final vote on 126. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu, 1 against and 2 abstentions. Draft 126 Act amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office initiated by the Constitutional Commission has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U100	Let us move to the next item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on strategic goods initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put the 96th draft to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft law 96 on strategic goods initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U101	We are going to the sixth item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No negotiations, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I shall put to the final vote draft 103. Please take a stand and vote. There are 84 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U102	Good afternoon. The next item is the third reading of the draft State Budget Act 2012 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U103	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the information related to the third reading of the draft State Budget Act 2012. In particular, the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2012 took place on 26 October and the second reading took place on 16 November. a. In preparation for the third reading, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft state budget for 2012 and the related topics at its meetings on 21 and 22 November and 5 and 6 December 2011. On 21 November, Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Agriculture and Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, gave the Commission a detailed overview of the 2012 budget for their area of administration. These were the two ministers who had not yet spoken to the Commission about their administration or governance. In the field of agriculture, the most important approaches concerned monitoring and analysis, the resources to be allocated for analysis and their adequacy, which was marked by the Minister's need to upgrade PRIA's IT systems. He also mentioned the development and financing of land improvement systems. The budget shows that the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is increasing. The Minister pointed out that the main reason for the increase was the increase in subsidies. In the past, the Chancellor of the Ministry of Education had spoken on education issues (the first of the people of the ministries in fact) in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but this time the Minister also came to the Commission, because the issues relating to education, especially in the budgetary context, have been topical throughout this period. The Minister highlighted important issues in the field of education. The main topic he pointed out was the pay of teachers. There was a longer discussion about this, and the subject has also been discussed in public for quite a long time. He also identified issues such as the need to reform the general education network, optimise the education network, i.e. structural restructuring, and the need to find additional resources. The Minister mentioned that he very much expects and hopes that the work will lead to a compromise between the state and local authorities at some point. It has taken steps to set up a working group where representatives of the Cities Association, the Association of Rural Municipalities, the Federation of Educational Workers and the Ministry of Education would be at one table. He said in the Commission that work is currently being done to ensure that expectations and opportunities are already well known during the 2013 budget. When it comes to the amendments received before the third reading, the deadline was 21 November and 19 amendments were received by the political groups of the Riigikogu and one amendment was drafted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As far as the Commission's own amendment is concerned, it consists of several parts and has been drawn up on the basis of additional information from ministries. Explanations are included in the list of amendments. The main changes foreseen in the amendment of the Committee on Monetary Affairs concern the postponement of the entry into force of the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, the increase in the share capital of AS Estonian Air, the postponement of the increase in alcohol duty by one month, the liquidation procedure of the Museum Building Foundation, the clarification of the plan to increase the viability of the Rescue Board and the granting of a short-term loan from the Ministry of Finance to the State Forest Management Centre. Additional resources will be devoted to support and investment for projects in the fields of education, the environment, culture and social affairs, fertility treatment, improving the effectiveness of drug testing, as well as increased allocations to rescue associations, rescue centres, additional voluntary commandos in different regions and operational expenditure of the Police and Border Guard Board. The Commission partly took into account proposal No 19, which aims to increase the allocation of the Ministry of Social Affairs, due to the financing conditions laid down in the Act on Artificial Fertilisation and Embryo Protection. Amendments 3, 4, 5 and 13 of the Estonian Centre Party Group did not find the Commission's support due to their inconsistency with § 20 of the State Budget Act. The reason is that according to § 120 (3) of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the amendments to the draft state budget must comply with the conditions laid down in § 20 of the State Budget Act and § 20 (3) of the State Budget Act states that the proposal to amend the state budget may not lead to a deficit, increase or decrease in the surplus of the state budget. The above-mentioned proposals included changes in the financing operations of the state budget as a source of cover, which could lead to an increase in the deficit of the state budget. These proposals are also not supported by the Government of the Republic, and pursuant to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, they are not to be voted in the Riigikogu's plenary session. The remaining proposals were not supported by the Commission for the following reasons: Due to international commitments, the volume of defence expenditure is set at 2% of GDP in 2012. Some of the amendments were proposed as a source of cover, namely a reduction in their expenditure. The Commission found that reducing the reserve of the Government of the Republic and increasing the profit allocation of RMK in this amount was unsustainable. One of the amendments marked the own revenues of the governing area. However, they are the result of revenue coming from different bodies and can only be used to cover the costs incurred by the institutions themselves. The 2012 budget already foresees EUR 17.8 million for local road storage, an increase of EUR 5.1 million, which is more than 40%, but one amendment found that additional financial resources should be added. For one amendment, a reduction in the resources needed to buy natural value lands was proposed as a cover, which would actually prolong the procedure. Although it is possible to apply for funding from the European Union's Structural Funds for a number of additional projects, one amendment envisaged that a specific project could be financed from the state budget. In terms of figures, the revenue of the state budget is around 6.116 billion euros and the expenditure volume is 6.576 billion euros. The objective of the budget is to increase economic stability and create an overall favourable economic environment. The deficit for next year will amount to 2.1% of GDP, in particular as a result of investments in CO2 quota sales revenue and the restoration of the second pension pillar in full. The public budget deficit and financing operations are planned to be financed by means of reserves. The Commission proposes to close the third reading and to put the draft to a final vote. There were 6 members in favour of the vote, 3 against and no abstentions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? Only representatives of the political groups may take part in the negotiations. Please, as representative of the Group of the Centre Party, Mr Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U105	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The procedure for next year's budget is once again coming to an end in this Chamber. As in many years, the negotiations of the delegations of the Government Committee and the Municipalities Cooperation Council have not ended this year with the signing of a protocol to the negotiations, and so does the coalition and opposition in the Riigikogu Hall. At times, it seems that we live in two Estonias, the joint part of which is only this building here in Toompea, because all this input coming from different parts of Estonia is totally different from the coalition and opposition. It is as if there are no problems and concerns for the coalition in Estonia. Otherwise, I would think you would probably not set foot outside Tallinn, but I have seen from the Riigikogu website that the coalition group also meets the people outside of Tallinn. I wonder who you're meeting, whether it's just bankers and businessmen, because if you met teachers on the outskirts of Estonia, you'd be talking about an increase in teachers' salaries for the budget. If you met ordinary people, you would understand that a room-warm price race could not leave us indifferent and it would probably make sense to reduce the room-warm VAT. If you were to meet with local government leaders outside Tallinn, you would probably think about the budget from the point of view that the income base of local governments should be restored. If you went to schools outside Tallinn, you would understand that you should, like us, talk about financing school food. The biggest shortage of the budget for the coming year is the oblivion of the Estonian people. How is this budget supposed to support the ordinary Estonian people? What is the government's message to those whose real wages have consistently fallen over recent years, and who are now in a situation where they are barely coming to an end? A few months ago, Toompea had a teacher's demonstration. It is not common for the salt of Estonia to come to Toompea. I'm sure it was a last resort. At the teacher's demonstration, one teacher said that he listened to a round of questions and answers by the Prime Minister in the Riigikogu, waiting for a message for teachers to come from there, a ray of hope. After the Prime Minister's long monologue, it was clear that there was nothing good for the teachers. The budget for the coming year will show that the only positive messages will concern 2015 or the next year of the Riigikogu elections. In some ways, these messages are ten years old, as it is again promised that the tax rate will be reduced in 2015. This has already become an objective in itself rather than a measure to achieve another objective. But you still have to learn from your mistakes, not to repeat them consistently. With pro-cyclical tax policies, we reached one of the biggest economic recessions in Europe during the economic crisis. The claim that everyone has won the income tax reform is also not quite correct, if not to say that it is a lie, because the so-called winnings have been very different. The winner of the minimum wage and the monthly salary of EUR 4000 vary almost 30 times. The coalition would have a sincere desire to improve people's situation and reduce inequalities, then an increase in the income tax-free minimum would be planned in 2015, but it is not under discussion because it will improve the lives of just one small, richer part of society. Let the rest of you see how you do. As regards the amendments tabled by the Centre Party Group, we have offered them various sources of coverage at various national budget readings. As to the last source of cover, the Riigikogu is also engaged in such practices that what is promised to Jupiter is not at all allowed for bulls. How else do you explain that one budget line is appropriate as the source of the ESM contribution, but it is not in any way suitable for an increase in teachers' pay? In fact, to be quite honest, having experimented with amendments, it can be said that no source of cover offered by the opposition would have been suitable for the coalition anyway. It cannot be accepted from coalition politicians that these are necessary amendments, but unfortunately they cannot be supported, because the source of the cover is not appropriate. However, it is a question of priorities, that is, where we will start drawing up the state budget. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U106	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U107	For us, the increase in the pay of teachers is important; this increase must be important and must not be conditional, not so that we close 150 secondary schools and then find the means to raise the pay of the remaining teachers. At the moment, however, it has been less important in the budget how the people of Estonia cope, and more important has been how we look. At night, the necessary contribution was found to support countries that are richer than themselves, but no solutions are sought to alleviate the pains of their own people. However, as a sign of goodwill and caring, the coalition could have supported some of the opposition's amendments, either by increasing the cost of school food to EUR 1 and the introduction of free school food at upper secondary school or by increasing the rate of child support. For many children, school lunch is the only hot meal a day. The offer of a healthy school lunch for just 78 euro cents is already too much for people working in school kitchens. The Centre Party has submitted a draft stating that the school lunch allowance must be brought to EUR 1 and that the free school lunch must also be introduced into the upper secondary school. This bill, which was initiated in the spring, is still in the Riigikogu proceedings. Hopefully, if coalition groups eventually end up outside Tallinn, they will understand that in difficult times, a free school lunch is especially necessary. In reality, this 2012 state budget has been prepared by the government and the Riigikogu's contribution to changing it has been marginal. The members of the coalition have praised this budget up to the sky and said how it solves all the problems in Estonia, although some sort of self-criticism could also exist for coalition politicians. In a democratic state, opposition parties have highlighted budgetary weaknesses, because where you see a mistake, you should come and help. The opposition parties have proposed amendments to correct the government's mistakes, but these proposals have been run over by a roller coaster. Unfortunately, this has recently become a common course of action. After the adoption of the 2012 state budget, we hear that this budget was adopted by the Riigikogu. This is legally right, but it is actually wrong, because this budget will be adopted with the votes of coalition politicians. The Centre Party Group cannot support a budget that does not provide a solution to the key problems of life in Estonia. These include unfairly low wages, the increasing stratification of society, the emigration of people and, of course, the lack of well-being of children, which have become an integral part of many occupations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U108	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. I would like to call on my colleague, Mr Sven Mikser, as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very difficult to add something to what I have already said in previous readings of the budget, because it has not obviously improved between the readings of the budget. Although in a country that calls itself a parliamentary state, the procedure for the draft submitted by the government to the Riigikogu for discussion could improve. In fact, the process of processing this budget reflects a more general process in Estonian politics, namely how the state moves beyond the person. We here on Toompea sometimes say that people are estranged from the country. I think the state and the power of the state are actually alienating their people. What happens is that the ruling coalition here in Toompea sends its best sons and daughters to exercise executive power, but they close their own ivory or ebony tower and communicate more with their colleagues in Brussels than with their voters here in Estonia. This is what happens when we invest our money in a way that results in praise coming from Brussels, but does not invest in our own people. The result, of course, is that people simply leave Estonia. The Social Democrats proposed a number of important, fundamental, forward-looking amendments to this budget. We proposed to triple the current EUR 19 child allowance. On the one hand, this is a question of fairness, because there is no doubt that the cost of a family with children is significantly higher than that of a family without the same income. On the other hand, creating development conditions for children is an investment for the state which requires resources over a long period of time, but at the same time has a very high level of profitability. Second, the teachers' salary. It is also a question of 'conscious justice', but also a question of investing in Estonia's human resources, because this is where the educational reform begins, which we are talking about so much. The Chief and Finance Minister of the Reform Party has announced before the Riigikogu that the increase in teachers' salaries is not enough for the reason that there has been no reform of the school network so far. I have never heard of teachers performing national school reform as part of their duties. In other words, the government says that due to their own work, i.e. the work that has not been carried out so far by members of the government, there will be no provision for an increase in teachers' pay in the budget for next year. In fact, the ideological belief that value is created only in the private sector is also pouring through here, while the public sector simply eats this value. It is very difficult to invest in human assets in Estonia until we see a teacher as a creator of value, who also deserves the state's recognition. Next up, students. The Social Democrats have proposed the creation of a system of education grants for current students starting in the next academic year and restoring the arrangements for compensating former students for student loans. Here is the question of the credibility of the state. We talk very much about the credibility of our country, as it seems from outside our country, much less about the credibility of our country in the eyes of our own citizens. The Social Democrats proposed to finance state-free school meals also in upper secondary school and to restore the "Every child's kindergarten place" programme, which was suspended in 2009. We have proposed to tackle the injustice that was done to our municipalities during the economic crisis by cutting the fine-tuning fund and reducing the share of income tax. None of these proposals were supported by the ruling coalition. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U110	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U111	We also provided sources of cover for our proposals. One of them, which was unacceptable to the coalition, was an increase in defence spending at a slightly more moderate pace than the 22% increase proposed by the government next year. Others were linked to additional sources of revenue, which were also not acceptable to the ruling coalition. If we want to invest in the development of our country and people in the future, to contribute to the development of our most valuable resource, Estonia's human resources, we must undoubtedly take advantage of ideological glasses or eye flaps that will prevent us from looking around for additional sources of revenue from the state budget, which would not hinder entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship on the one hand, on the other hand, would be socially fair and, thirdly, would give the state money to do the necessary things. For example, the Social Democrats proposed to increase the overall income tax rate and support employers' and employees' proposals to reduce unemployment insurance contributions. Unfortunately, for ideological reasons, this proposal was also not acceptable to the ruling coalition. Since the budgetary procedure in this Chamber has not been a dialogue between the government and parliament, even less a dialogue between the ruling coalition and the opposition of the Riigikogu, and since no opposition amendment has been taken into account in substance, the Social Democrats cannot support the final vote on the draft State Budget Act 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U112	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Mikser. I would like to ask my colleague Jaanus Tamkivi to speak as a representative of the Group of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, hopefully, the Riigikogu will make the most important decision in this Parliament's composition so far. We will adopt the budget for next year, according to which the country will settle in 2012. Talking about the budget, there has been talk about record investments, defence costs, pension increases, support for families and entrepreneurship. This is all very important and worth repeating. In the run-up to the final vote, however, I would like to say thanks to both the government and the Minister of Finance, who has had a meaningful dialogue with the Riigikogu, during which the budget has become much better. This process here has been carried out as appropriate in parliamentary democracy. The budgetary process has been balanced and demonstrated the political maturity of the Riigikogu. This sentence was intended for the opposition, whose various proposals have been very constructive, except for one thing, namely the sources of cover. The economic model that brought Estonia success was again approved by the voters this spring and must be continued. Growth is a much more sustainable source of fiscal revenue growth than tax increases. The proposals for tax increases are not only politically unacceptable, but they would also generate significantly less tax revenue than the initiators claim. The desire to increase the budget volume and deficit was high in the course of the procedure. Fortunately, there was a cautious attitude, and we remained true to conservative fiscal policies. A number of opposition proposals were envisaged as a source of cover to reduce reserves, i.e. to increase the deficit. This is in direct conflict with both the law and common sense. European countries are rebelling in large debts, which also poses risks to the Estonian economy. We did not consider excessive cuts to be necessary when dealing with the budget, just in case, but certainly not an increase in costs and deficits. The Estonian proverb says that the debt is foreign. In addition to us, the IMF and international credit rating agencies recognise this truth. It is precisely because Estonia does not need to pay large borrowing rates that we can afford the biggest investment figures in history next year. Let's think about it and manage the next generation without imposing a loan burden. The Reform Party has never supported reforms, the whole of which is just a title. Nor has it supported the tax reductions for which loans have to be taken. There will certainly not be a reduction in unemployment insurance. This has long been the subject of a government union agreement. We will do so as soon as we can. When we cut taxes, we want to give preference to lowering labour taxes, because these taxes are more of a brake on economic growth than consumption taxes. However, I would like to say to the critics of linking the unemployment fund and the health fund to the reserve budget, that it is not reasonable for the wallet to sew one pocket in order to discuss who could give us a loan afterwards. The 2012 budget, which is approved by the Riigikogu today, offers Estonia confidence in the attractions of the global economy. Based on today's knowledge, we will have a budget that does not need to be ashamed in ten years' time. But the world is not yet ready; the Estonian state is not ready. We need to keep a close eye on what is happening, and when reality changes, we need to make corrections in the budget if necessary. However, the Reform Party Group firmly believes that the 2012 budget is the best possible one and gives a good third of the votes of all members of the Riigikogu in support of this budget. I also call on all my fellow Members to vote in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Tamkivi. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of my colleague Urmas Reinsalu Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U115	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U116	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U117	Honourable Chairwoman of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group supports the adoption of this state budget. If one of the previous speakers, Sven Mikser, pointed out that, as a result of the rejection of the opposition's amendments, Parliament failed to improve this budget when it processed the amendments, I think one of the major virtues of this procedure was that we did not make this draft worse. In particular, one of the fundamental proposals put forward by the opposition as the main source of its amendments was the introduction of progressive income tax. Our clear view is that the prerequisite for economic growth in Estonia is not to increase the overall tax burden. It is good to note that the general tax burden in Estonia will remain at 32.4% with the state budget for next year and the goal of the government coalition will be to reduce it to 31.7% by 2015. Another serious criticism was that the draft budget, like it does not concern a person, remains a long way off, and the person who has sent us to this Parliament to make decisions does not see that this budget can solve his important problems. For us, looking at the prospects of the economy, employment is the most important issue. A very clear priority for next year's budget will be to increase employment with the resources that the central government can guarantee. Firstly, the increase in public investment. Public investment will increase to EUR 1.25 billion or 28% next year. The largest part of the investment is planned for the repair of state roads. Another key word for increasing employment is supporting entrepreneurship in rural areas. We will support the Estonian farmer next year with a 10% increase in the volume of additional direct payments. Support for agricultural, rural and fisheries development will increase by EUR 47.1 million. Thirdly, active labour market measures are a very important issue. I would point out that, compared to the high level of registered unemployment in March 2010, when more than 95 000 were registered as unemployed, unemployment has fallen to below 50000 registered unemployed. However, the problem is that the share of the long-term unemployed has increased, the proportion of those who have been registered as unemployed for more than 12 months. It is therefore appropriate that the state allocates EUR 37,6 million, the highest ever amount to active labour market measures. The priority is to reduce long-term unemployment. In the area of employment, the competitiveness plan "Estonia 2020" will provide a clear rate for next year's state budget. It makes perfect sense that, in the light of this plan, decisions are also taken on the financial coverage of budgetary priorities. Fourthly, employment is promoted through business support. It is positive that next year, red tape will be cut when applying for business support, and that the priorities will be start-up, product development and export refunds. When it comes to people and people-centredness, let us look at the structural distribution of the budget. The state continues to devote the most money to social protection 1 3 percent of the budget expenditure. The following economy (16%), health (13%) and education (12%). It is positive that public health insurance will increase by 8.5% compared to this year's budget. What is positive is that the state budget will allow pensions to be raised by 4.4% next year and that payments from the second pillar will also recover in full. The next year's budget will allocate funds to continue the reorganisation of replacement homes and to build family houses for children without parental care instead. We will continue with the home support programme for children's rich families, which has already received more than 1,200 families, with over 7,000 children in total. Over the next year, a report by the Ministry of Social Affairs should be prepared to change the general system of family allowances so that children in less economic circumstances can receive more support. It is true that development can only come through education, innovation and research. If we look at promoting development, the state's expenditure on research and education will represent 1% of GDP as a whole from next year's budget. Education expenditure is increasing by EUR 65 million, or 12%. Next year, more than half a hundred schools and student homes will be renovated. The IT Academy will be launched next year with budget allocation to ensure competitive ICT education. The volume of public university training orders is increasing, which will also become more effective operating support if the higher education reform is implemented. It is a fact that we were able to raise the teachers' minimum wage by almost a fifth in 2007 and 2008. We have no reason to regret this decision. The Minister of Education has expressed our clear will that the full-time teacher's salary must be 20% above the national average. To achieve this, it is necessary, as the previous speakers pointed out, to make more effective use of the current education money and to channel additional resources into education in the event of an improvement in public finances. The opposition also proposed a series of defence costs as one of its own spending priorities. The clear choice of our coalition of the IRL and Reform Party next year is to separate 2% of GDP from Estonia's defence. It strengthens the state's independent defence capacity and ensures the stability of national defence. The biggest increase is 54.6% for military personnel to obtain modern equipment and ammunition. The funding of the Defence League will increase by 16.8%, the Defence League will gain more modern uniforms, equipment, vehicles and decent shooting ranges. We could not support the proposal to reduce these budget allocations. The IRL Group thanks for the cooperation with the Reform Party Group, both opposition parties for their constructive criticism and, of course, all the good officials who helped to prepare this budget and turn it into a draft state budget. We will be firmly committed to voting in favour of this draft budget. It is an optimal choice based on the understanding that the state can spend as much as we can earn.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U118	Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U119	Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U120	Thank you, Mr Reinsalu. The representatives of all the political groups have been given the opportunity to present themselves. I will conclude the negotiations and go to the examination of the amendments. They are presented in 20 of the draft law. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the commission has rejected the proposal, but according to § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, this amendment is not to be voted on. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the proposal has been fully taken into account. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has rejected the proposal, but this proposal is also not to be voted on. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has rejected the proposal and this proposal is not to be voted on either. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the commission has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the proposal has been rejected by the Steering Committee and the proposal is not to be voted on. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has rejected this proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has rejected this proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. The 10th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the commission has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. The 12th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 13 is from the Estonian Central Party Group, the commission has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 14 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. The 15th amendment is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 16 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 17 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 18 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the commission has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. The 19th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has partially taken the proposal into account. The 20th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee has rejected the proposal and the proposal is not to be voted on. We have examined all the amendments and we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft State Budget Act 2012 initiated by the Government of the Republic 99. Please vote! 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U121	We will continue to work on the agenda items. The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan' begins. As a rapporteur, I would like to ask the Chairman of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. Mr Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U122	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft decision was completed on 23 November. a. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for the submission of amendments, 1 December at 18 o'clock, and therefore the text of the draft decision at first reading must be taken into account in the second reading. The Afghanistan mission is NATO's most important military mission, to which the relevant UN Security Council resolutions extend. To clarify the explanatory memorandum to the first reading of the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic, we note that s. On 12 October 2010, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2011 extending the mandate of the ISAF operation until 13 October 2012. Responsibilities for Afghanistan's security will be transferred to the Afghan Government and security forces under current plans by the end of 2014. The National Defence Committee met in s. a on 6 December at the Commission meeting with Colonel Peeter Hoppe, acting Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, and Lieutenant Colonel Eero Rebo. The meeting gave a final overview of the situation in the mission area. The National Defence Committee decided on 5 December. A consensus was reached at the meeting to approve the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft; it was decided to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U123	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Mr Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Here's the question. When the mission was extended for next year, did the Commission also have a debate on the future of the Estonian mission in Afghanistan, for example after 2014?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U125	Thank you. If we are talking specifically about a military mission, it should still be heading more and more towards mentoring, or developing and supporting the Afghan security forces, in the coming years. When we talk about Estonia's support in general, of course, development cooperation and other projects will not end in 2014. This direction was confirmed at the major international conference held in Bonn on 5 December, which was precisely the subject of the future of Afghanistan between 2015 and 2024. Estonia will continue to make a firm contribution, but we will rather support the construction of civil society. In parallel, there will be a mission in Afghanistan, during which Estonian police officers will train Afghan police. According to the law, the participation of police officers in the mission does not require a mandate of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U126	No further questions. Thank you once again, Mr Mati Raidma. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments to the draft law, and we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan', draft 119. Please vote! 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U127	The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO reaction forces." Lauri Laasi, Member of the National Defence Commission of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U128	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft decision was completed on 23 November. a. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading at its meeting on 5 December. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for the submission of amendments, which is why the text submitted for the first reading of the draft decision should be used as the basis for the second reading of the draft decision. As with the previous draft, the National Defence Commission met on 6 December in preparation for the second reading of this draft with representatives of the Defence Forces and received an overview of the situation in the various mission areas and the preparation of the Defence Forces for the deployment of the mission areas. Now for a little reminder. Estonia's participation in NATO's response forces is due to NATO membership. The NRF's response force is an important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, if necessary. Thus, participation in the NRF is also directly related to Estonia's security. The use of the NRF is decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the use of the NRF can only take place with the consent of Estonia. The National Defence Committee decided on its s. a at its meeting on 5 December, by consensus, approve the explanatory memorandum to the draft at second reading. The rapporteur was appointed here. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U129	Thank you very much, Mr Laas. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments to the draft either, and we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote to the final vote on draft 117 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces'. Please vote! 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U130	The second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta and NATO Marine Operation Active Endeavour' begins. Please waitress Marianne Mikko, member of the National Defence Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading in its s. a at its meeting on 5 December. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion was completed. a on 23 November 2004. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for the submission of amendments, which is why the draft decision at this or second reading should be based on the text of the draft decision at first reading. According to the draft decision, the Estonian ship defence team would continue to participate in both the European Union anti-piracy operation Atalanta and NATO Marine Operation Active Endeavour. Anti-piracy operation Atalanta is the European Union's most important military operation. As a Member State of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to implement the European Union's common security and defence policy. That is exactly what participation in Operation Atalanta means. I also note that in ancient Greek, Greek mythology, Atalanta is a female hunter. I would point out that piracy is punishable in Estonian law. Paragraph 100 of the Penal Code provides for imprisonment for piracy for up to 20 years. In autumn 2010, the European Union extended the mandate of Operation Atalanta until 31 December 2012. To clarify the draft explanatory memorandum at first reading, I note that s. On 22 November 2010, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution No 2020, which also extended the mandate of Atalanta. The draft is related to s. a meeting of the National Defence Commission on 6 December, where the National Defence Commission received an overview from representatives of the Defence Forces of the situation in the mission area. I have to admit, our men are extraordinarily good there. I can say that with certainty in front of you. Until April 2012, the Estonian ship defence team is operating in a French warship crew and from May 2012 the Estonian team is expected to be operating again on a German warship. Active Endeavour is a collective defence operation under Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. Active endeavour means active pursuit. I'm getting to the finish line. At its meeting on 5 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to approve the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft. Earlier, s. On 10 November the National Defence Committee had decided that when the first reading of the draft decision was completed, it would be proposed to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be adopted for the second reading in the Riigikogu's plenary session. a on the agenda for the meeting on 7 December. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft decision, to propose to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U132	Thank you very much, Mrs Mikko, for a very thorough report. You have questions. Mr Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, thank you very much for your thorough presentation! But I was wondering how much we're planning on sending in the so-called female hunters.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U134	I didn't say that in my report, but the bill says up to 15 militias. In general, it's about 12, plus a couple of officers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U135	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U136	Thank you. Has the name of Operation Atalanta also affected the military happiness of this operation? If that name had been Lembitu, would this option have been much worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U137	I think it has worked because the outcome of these operations has so far been that three-quarters of the cases have been successful. But in 2010, 52 cases ended with pirate victory.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U138	Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U139	Have the pirates commented on the name Atalanta in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U140	This, dear colleague, was not discussed in the Committee on National Defence. So, unfortunately, I cannot answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U141	No further questions. Thank you again, Marianne Mikko! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments either. We can go to the final vote on the draft decision. Dear Riigikogu, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the European Union's anti-piracy operation Atalanta and NATO Marine Operation Active Endeavour' draft 122. Please vote! 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U142	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft Act on Employment Contracts initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Speaker's Board, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U143	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce you to the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and related other laws, which aims to bring Estonian law into line with two European Union directives. We are taking over some of the provisions of the Directives on temporary agency work and parental leave with this draft. Most of the changes in the draft are related to temporary agency work. As the Estonian parental leave system is more favourable than the directive on parental leave, our laws only need to be clarified in this respect. As the draft deals mainly with temporary agency work, I will explain here the concept of temporary agency work. Rent work is provided that the employee enters into an employment contract with the employer but takes up employment with a third party, the user undertaking. It is important to know that temporary agency work is already regulated in the Employment Contracts Act but needs clarification under the Directive. The main changes we propose are as follows: Firstly, since the temporary agency work directive highlights as an important feature of temporary agency work the fact that an employee is temporarily employed by a user undertaking, the definition of temporary agency work is specified, the word 'temporary' is added. Secondly, the draft clarifies the conclusion of fixed-term contracts in the case of temporary agency work. There are two amendments to the draft. The first relates to the fact that a fixed-term employment contract may be concluded under current law if the work carried out by the employer is of a temporary nature, such as work resulting from a temporary increase in seasonal work or work volume. The draft is complementary to the Employment Contracts Act in such a way that a fixed-term contract can be concluded in the case of temporary agency work even if the work carried out by the employee with the user undertaking is of a temporary nature. For example, a fixed-term contract for temporary agency work is justified if the user undertaking needs an employee for the summer season. The second amendment here is that under the current law, an employer can conclude a fixed-term employment contract with an employee twice in a row, with a time interval between contracts not exceeding two months. In the event of the conclusion of a third fixed-term contract, the contract shall become open-ended. The draft states that for temporary agency work this rule applies to each user undertaking separately. This means that the contract will become open-ended once the employee has worked for the same user undertaking on the basis of two consecutive fixed-term contracts. The third amendment concerns the right of parents to leave. The draft increases the parents' right to leave by ensuring that both parents can take unpaid leave for 10 working days a year until the child reaches the age of 14 or until the disabled child reaches the age of 18. A question had arisen in this connection, because the current legal text contains an exchange of 'and' and 'or'. The fourth amendment concerns the law on health and safety at work. It is specified that workers performing their duties as temporary agency workers must be guaranteed compliance with health and safety requirements at work. In the case of temporary agency work, health and safety at work must be guaranteed in the same way as normal work. Last, the fifth amendment concerns the Equal Treatment Act. According to the amendment, the temporary agency worker must be subject to the same working, rest and pay conditions as those laid down for a comparable user undertaking worker. Persons working in an undertaking may not be treated differently because one is a regular employee and the other is a temporary agency worker. We support the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs to conclude the first reading of the draft and to refer the draft to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U144	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions. I would like to ask Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws in connection with it at its meeting on 22 November. In addition to the members of the committee, Ms Rene Lauk, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Ms Seili Suder, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Department for the Development of Working Life of the Ministry of Social Affairs, also presented the draft to the members of the committee. The Minister made a good presentation and presented the draft in detail, and I will not repeat it. The Commission asked only one question: does the current law define quite precisely the concept of a temporary agency, because the directive has been introduced not only by a legal person but also by a natural person who can hold a temporary agency? The Commission decided that, between the two readings, we would consult the Ministry of Justice on this issue. The Commission was full of a spirit of cooperation and made all decisions in a consensual manner. I'll introduce them to you. In particular, the Commission decided to propose to the Bureau a draft of 129 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 7 December, to propose to the assembly that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 21 December. The Commission appointed me, Maret Maripuu, as rapporteur, also by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-07_U146	Thank you very much, Mr Maret Maripuu. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 129 amendments on 21 December at 4 p.m. The first reading of Bill 129 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 15.44 p.m.
