ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U1	Respectable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have an inquiry to the esteemed Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. The issue of questioning is the waste management. Estonian waste management is largely divided between three companies. These companies are: AS Ragn-Sells, AS Veolia Environmental Services and Adelan Prügiveod OÜ. Adelan Prügiveod OÜ is the only company based on Estonian capital. It provides waste collection and transportation services in Harjumaa, Tartu and Narva to residents and manufacturing, commercial and construction companies. Veolia Environmental Services is part of the worldwide Veolia Group, Ragn-Sells' head office is located near Stockholm. Thus, in Estonia, waste disposal is largely controlled by foreign companies. This is not only negative, as it is accompanied by competence in this area and by respect for environmental principles. However, the interests of large groups are significantly wider and are not limited to the interests of Estonia alone. With seven colleagues, I have signed an inquiry. We have six questions on this subject that we want answers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U3	Thank you very much. Phone chair for Priit Toobali, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will give the Riigikogu the draft law amending § 2 of the Holidays and Holidays Act. The purpose of the draft is to turn Easter Day 2 into a public holiday and a holiday in Estonia. Estonian public holidays generally coincide with public holidays established in other Member States of the European Union. One difference is Easter Sunday 2nd, which is a public holiday and a holiday in most European Union Member States, with the exception of Estonia, Malta and Portugal, where Easter Sunday 2nd is a normal working day. When the law enters into force, Easter Day 2 will become a public holiday in Estonia, as in most Member States of the European Union. This would make it easier for companies that have to communicate daily with their parent companies and subsidiaries in other countries. In the Nordic countries and Latvia and Lithuania, with whom Estonia is most closely connected, it is the 2nd day of Easter holidays and the day of rest. If the bill came into force, the number of public holidays in Estonia would increase to 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. I've adopted a bill. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Let's go to the messages. First of all, Wednesday, s. On 18 May, the following members of the Government will take part in Question Time: Minister for Defence Mart Laar, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus and Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. It is also noted that today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in the Chamber to set up the Estonian-Kambodža parliamentary group, which will be convened by Kalle Jents. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U6	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Let's get to today's agenda. The first reading of the draft decision of the three Riigikogus is on the agenda. However, I must say that today's mood is extremely alarming. I don't know what it's coming from. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu " Appointment of the members of the National Library of Estonia' submitted by the Committee on Culture. I ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U7	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with § 23 (2) of the Estonian National Library Act, we process the draft decision of the Riigikogu, according to which the mandate of the current members of the Estonian National Library Council ends and the new members of the Riigikogu must be appointed by the Riigikogu. The Committee on Culture prepared the first reading of the draft decision in plenary. 2009 - meeting of 9 May. The political groups of the Riigikogu had submitted the following candidates to the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu: Jaak Allik by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, Igor Gräzin by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and Kaia Iva by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Priit Pirsko and Sirje Virkus were nominated by the National Library of Estonia for the work of the library. The Committee on Culture made the following decisions by consensus: to submit the draft to the Riigikogu plenary session for discussion. 17 May 2005 and propose the final vote and the adoption of the draft as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U8	Thank you. There's a question for the waitress. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! In your presentation, you stressed that the candidates were representatives of the political groups. Do they represent political positions of political groups, or are they representatives of the general opinion of the Riigikogu, as a result of the appointment of members of the council and this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U10	Thank you very much. They certainly represent the Riigikogu. Political parties in the form of political groups have offered such candidates to our committee, having made a prudent decision on the best candidates, the best representatives of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U11	Thank you. Any more questions? No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. I will put the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of Members of the Council of the National Library of Estonia' to the 35th final vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu are in favour, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft 35 of the Riigikogu's decision "Announcement of the members of the Board of the National Library of Estonia" submitted by the Cultural Committee has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U12	We come to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the National Opera Board submitted by the Committee on Culture. Mr. Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U13	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the end of the term of office of the XI Riigikogu and on the basis of § 6 (2) (1) of the National Opera Act, the Riigikogu must decide to appoint members of the National Opera Council. The Committee on Culture also prepared the discussion of this item in plenary. a at the meeting on 9 May, when the proposals of the political groups were on our table: by Marko Mihkelson Isamaa and Res Publica Union Group, Imre Sooäär by the Estonian Reform Party Group and by the Estonian Centre Party Group of Esther Tuiksoo. The Commission decided to propose to the Assembly a draft decision containing the names of its colleagues on the plenary agenda. a on 17 May, propose that the draft be put to a final vote and adopted as a decision. All these decisions have been taken in a consensual manner. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U14	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. I will put the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of Members of the National Opera Council' to the final 36 votes. 76 members of the Riigikogu are in favour, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft 36 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the National Opera Supervisory Board submitted by the Cultural Committee has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U15	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing Members of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia" submitted by the Committee on Culture. Mr Klaas, President of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, would like to speak again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U16	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision 37 is on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture today. a on the basis of the decision of the meeting of 9 May and at the request of the Commission. The draft has been drawn up because the powers of the XI Riigikogu have expired and the Riigikogu must decide to appoint members of the National Broadcasting Council on the basis of § 14 (1) (1) (1) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. As has been said, this draft decision was on the Commission's agenda on 9 May. a at the meeting. We had turned to the parliamentary groups because, according to the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, the political groups are obliged to appoint their candidates to the National Broadcasting Council. The political groups did so too. The following candidates were submitted: Priit Toobal by the Estonian Centre Party Group, Peeter Kreitzberg by the Estonian Social Democratic Party Group, Igor Gräzin by the Estonian Reform Party Group and Priit Sibul by the Isamaa and Res Publica Group. These names are also included in the draft decision of the Riigikogu, as decided by the Commission. The Commission asked whether Mr Gräzin had a contractual relationship with a television station or a television station. According to the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, a member of the National Broadcasting Council must not have a contractual relationship with 'competitive sounds'. It was a hint of a show where Mr Gräzin is performing with Mr Riisalu. As chairman of the committee, I checked it out. It turned out that there is no contractual relationship and therefore there is no problem. On the contrary, it is a great pleasure that Mr Gräzin's name figures in the draft decision. The Commission made consensual decisions to place the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 17 May, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U17	Thank you. There's a question for the waitress. Please, Mr. Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did the Commission also discuss the extent to which the National Broadcasting Council could have an impact on the future and functions and possible behaviour of national broadcasting?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U19	We made our decision on the basis of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, on the basis of which the Riigikogu is obliged to appoint members of the Supervisory Board. We did so with strong consensus and good faith that the National Broadcasting Council will be composed of competent members of the Riigikogu, who will also do their work for the good work of national broadcasting in good faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-17_U20	Thank you for your meaningful answer. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. I will put the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing members of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia' to the final vote on 37 of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Committee on Culture. 78 members of the Riigikogu are in favour, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft 37 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of the Riigikogu as members of the Riigikogu has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's plenary session is closed. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 10.21 a.m.
