ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U1	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Government of the Republic and good guests! Let's start the May 18th briefing. We're gonna do a presence check. 38 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 63 are missing. Good fellows! In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate: Minister for Defence Mart Laar in the role of Prime Minister, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus and Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Six questions have been registered today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U2	We come to the first question asked by a member of the Riigikogu, Inara Luis. Mart Laar, Minister of Defence, will answer that. The topic of the question is the opinion of the National Audit Office on the financing of local governments. Please, Inara Luigas, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U3	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister! On Monday, Auditor General Mihkel Oviir replied to the inquiry of the Centre Party about the income base of local governments in the light of the Supreme Court's decision to do so. As we all know, there is the 2010 Supreme Court ruling, which is why the government is accused that the functions of local governments are not divided into national and self-governing functions and that the state does not have a financing system that distinguishes the costs of public tasks from other costs so that they can be covered from the state budget. At the same time, it is noted that the new financing system, which should be prepared, must ensure that municipalities and cities have sufficient resources to carry out their tasks. The Auditor General said that the execution of the Supreme Court's decision is in the interest of all people, because it changes the role and responsibility of the state and local government...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U4	Mrs. Luigas, your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U5	... a clear and transparent distribution. Question: why has the government not taken up a court settlement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable questioner! This is certainly a very important question that you have asked. I'm very happy to answer that. I am particularly happy to do this because I can confirm that this Supreme Court decision, which was certainly remarkable and important, has begun to be implemented by the government. To make sure of this, it is only worth looking at the 2011 budget, which clearly allocates public tasks to municipalities and adds money to these tasks. I dare confirm that neither the municipalities nor the municipal associations have offered other tasks which are state-owned and which should be financed separately. The government has taken this decision into account and has also complied with it. I believe that the same picture will be seen against the 2012 budget when we get to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U7	Thank you. Mrs Inara Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U8	Thank you. Dear Minister of Defence! The same topic was discussed in this Chamber by the Auditor General. He said that something has sort of begun and is also reflected in the 2011 budget, but this is far from what is required of the Government as a result of the Supreme Court ruling. He pointed out the arguments. For five years, the National Audit Office has audited many municipalities, reviewed revenue bases, obligations imposed by the state, their execution, etc. It was shocking when he asked if we knew what the results were, and it turned out that the results were such that there were no well-organised and operational areas of activity where the faults and shortcomings of the municipalities would be negligible or formal. That was the answer of the Auditor General. He added that many municipalities simply do not comply with the law. He also pointed out as a reason that this was the result of the current flawed financing system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U9	We're waiting for a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U10	Question: When will quality standards be drawn up by service?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable questioner! This, too, is an extremely important issue. In fact, it has been dealt with long and hard. This relates in particular to the real capacity of our local authorities, which in turn relates to what our administrative system is at all and what can be expected of local governments in real terms under current regulations and current procedures. This issue, which you have now raised, is being dealt with in the government, and we hope to get ahead with it, although it is very difficult. There may be very unexpected results here, and perhaps not at all, as expected, because if this long, long and thorough work is completed, there may be other things that show more fundamental problems in the current organisation of local governments and force us to make other decisions. It is no secret that the Ministry of Finance has assessed the activities of local governments in several reorganisation proceedings and how much money they have to carry out their duties. According to the Ministry of Finance, it would be possible to perform the compulsory duties of local governments at least in certain places for much less money than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U12	Thank you. Inara Luigas, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U13	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You have rightly said that the real capacity of local authorities must actually be assessed. With every bill that comes to this Riigikogu, we should analyse the capacity of each local government. What has recently taken place in the Riigikogu is very amazing. In particular, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Reform Party have submitted a draft Land Tax Act to the proceedings, which continues to reduce the income base of local governments and puts local authorities in an even more difficult position. Such draft laws even trigger the bankruptcy of local governments. My question to you, as Minister for Defence, in the role of Prime Minister, is this: do you not think that such draft laws are the form of an internal attack on local governments, or constitutional institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable questioner! If I considered the two previous questions to be very good and precise, I must admit that I do not want to agree in any way with the subject of the last question. It appeared from this question, as if the government were trying to make people's situation, I stress, just to lighten people's situation, you would be reluctant in some way. I think it is the right decision to put forward this draft. I am astonished when such a esteemed group, the left-wing group, which is fighting for people's interests, protests against a bill that will ease the situation of people, including every simple worker and, very much, pensioners. That's one. It was a little amazing to hear. However, as far as municipalities are concerned and what happens to them, I believe that this bill will be a rather positive example of how these issues are discussed. If you read through the draft explanatory memorandum, you will see that there is a very clear definition of this objective and it has been stated. I believe that we can deliver on this promise in a beautiful and clearly united way. But this goal of improving people's situation is good and right. I believe and hope that this bill will find support beyond the borders of the government coalition in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U15	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Today we have six previously registered topics, from which we will try to address as much as possible within this hour. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister, the Prime Minister's duties! Your answers were, of course, extremely superficial and slogand. If that's how you're going to run the Defense Department, then the defense will still be a very big question in the future. But that's it. To make it easier for you to answer, I ask specifically. All administrative arrangements, municipal funding and administrative reform have always been in the hands of the IRL, because the Minister of Regional Affairs is from your party. Why have these things not been done, and why has there been no administrative reform in Estonia? I now ask for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U17	Thank you. Although this question goes out quite a bit of a question from Inara Luigas, I am still answering. And I am right to say in concrete terms: this has not been done because there has been no consensus in society. Can the search for this consensus be called protracted? I'm sure you could call it that. The government, which included the Centre Party, was also eager to seek this consensus. Excuse me, but I do not remember your specific proposals on how to carry out this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U18	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U19	Thank you. Dear Mart Laar! I would remind you that while we were in government, we increased municipal road money and also increased the share of personal income tax to local governments from 11.8% to 11.9%, which is a very large increase. I do not see that the current government is starting to take a different view of the local governments, and it cannot be, because the government is the same. The biggest cuts were made at the expense of the municipalities, namely in relation to this income tax rate, which was essentially increased by 5% to the state budget, reduced to the fine-tuning fund. In fact, rural development depends on the hope that aid will be provided from European Union funds. These aspects are also highlighted as negative in the Human Development Report and...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U20	Marika Tuus, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U21	Why do you want to keep the municipalities weak?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U22	Why do we want to keep governments weak? No, on the contrary, a respected questioner. We undoubtedly want to strengthen local governments and the government's programme also includes these provisions. I will specify: looking at these difficult and difficult times, when the government was forced to make cuts in society as a whole, so that we could now look at growth figures in the economy and should not deal with problems such as those of another European country, it must be said that the municipalities were not now among those who had been cut the most. They were also cut in many other places. Of course, the cuts in the municipalities that were made were very painful. There is a consensus in the government that I referred to earlier. We are moving in the direction that the government must, wherever possible, change the situation and the decisions that we were forced to make. I believe that we are moving in this direction in the right way and looking for solutions. Certainly not to think that the fate of local governments does not matter to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U23	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U24	Let us move to the second question, which is about prices and economic policy. This has been submitted by Marika Tuus, member of the Riigikogu, to Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. Please, Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U25	Thank you. Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs. I don't suppose there's any greater concern for the people now than this huge increase in prices. For the fourth month in a row, we are the country with the highest price increase in the whole of Europe. We are in a bad way even ahead of Latvia and Lithuania. Food prices are rising particularly severely. The price of sugar in Estonia already exceeds this price in the old European countries. There is no end to the price increases. We know that in the last two years the price of electricity rose by 24%, now the network charges are rising and there will again be an increase of around 6%. Of course, when electricity prices start to develop on the stock market, prices will increase by about a third. There is therefore a global price increase ball ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U26	We're waiting for a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U27	You took the fight against the monopolies as the main rally in the elections. Why haven't you done it, and you're doing it the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U28	Thank you. For us, fighting monopolies is important in order to keep administrative prices under control. I think that if you follow the implementation of the Monopoly Control Act, you will see real results: the warm price in Tallinn fell, the relatively harsh increase in the price of water was rejected. The procedure is currently under way whether or not Tallinna Vesi should lower the price. I don't know, it's up to the Competition Authority. As far as regulated prices are concerned, I think that the previous Riigikogu's decision on the Law on the Control of Monopolys has provided a solid framework so that administrative prices are actually under control. I stress: under real control. The competition authority must coordinate all the prices of warm-up services, as well as most of the prices of services provided by water companies. As far as the overall price level is concerned, it can be said as consolation that we are seeing (I mean the government as a whole) a slowdown in the inflation rate: 2.8% in 2012, 3% in 2013. If we divide the price increase into components, we will see that most of the price increase is largely due to external pressure. This is an objective phenomenon that we must monitor. I do not want to say that all inflation is due to external price pressure, but a large part of it is due, above all, to the price of oil, which has an indirect impact on energy prices in general, and, of course, to food prices. Like the world, it is difficult for us to predict these prices. Hopefully, the situation will become where these prices will at least stabilise at this level.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U29	Thank you, Minister Parts! You can continue to talk about this in answer to the next question. I ask the honourable questioner: let us also try to fit in one minute with the introductory speech and the question. Marika Tuus, first point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U30	Thank you. We had a visit to the Group by Märt Ots, Head of the Competition Authority. We didn't count any price decreases from what he said, on the contrary. We know that the base of everything is electricity. It is clear that we will not be able to renegotiate the so-called stock exchange prices in Scandinavia in the future, but we could reduce taxes and excise duties. We know that for households, excise duties on electricity are now five times higher than the minimum requirement of the European Union. But the government doesn't want to lower it. He also does not want to reduce VAT. However, roomoe has become increasingly expensive across Estonia, and the price of garbage transport has recently been raised by around 20%. For example, let's look at the waterworks of AS Emajõgi River. When the operation went over to him, the service went down...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U31	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U32	... exponentially more expensive. I ask, however, why have you not acted as you promised before the elections, why have you not contained price increases and lower prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U33	That was a completely wrong question. We're working in that direction. Please raise your eyes on your papers, see what the government is doing, and praise the government. The Monopoly Control Act has been passed, the Competition Authority is operating. This law will certainly provide a long-term opportunity to lower prices, and I will not rule that out at all. When it comes to opening up the market, it is easy to scare people with huge price increases, but we will look at the experience of the Nordic power exchange over a decade. As I said on Monday when I spoke to you, there, too, prices may fluctuate and the consumer must embrace it. But if we compare prices on the Nordic power exchange, for example, in 2006, this price was lower than the regulated price in Estonia, even in 2009 it was more or less in the same order of magnitude. Yes, in recent years the price of the Nordic power exchange has been higher than usual. So in this respect, too, we are going to another economic environment or situation. As far as indirect taxes are concerned, we are likely to have political differences here. The government coalition has a clear policy that lowering indirect taxes does not really help families or people who may have difficulty coping. We need to provide well-available social services and help these people to cope, rather than simply reduce VAT and excise duties, because there are plenty of people who have no direct impact on their livelihood.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U34	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U35	Thank you. We would really like to congratulate you, but we cannot do that in any way, because during the last period of government, our economy fell by 26%: from +10% to 16,5%. It's a very, very big drop. I understand the economy is rising now, but look where it's coming from. Moreover, this is only due to exports and price increases. It can be seen that the ultraliberal economic model, the non-intervention of the state and low taxes that has worked so far has expired. What is the content of our economy, or when is the turn of the knowledge economy? When are we going to determine what business needs to be developed in? Do you have any tests like that? We know how many scientists, actually very smart scientists, work for foreign countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U36	Your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U37	I have already asked two questions in this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U38	If the question was whether the analyses were available, then the answer is yes. We'll make more. If you allow one little joke, I will say that, indeed, the previous government of the Reform Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has gone to an evil trouble to create a crisis in the global economy. But we did it! You've noticed that, too. It was really just irony, it wasn't meant to be quoted. The question I caught was about the knowledge-based economy. That's the question. I think that is what we could discuss more and also generate ideas here. But once again, this is one indicator that may not yet show that we are developing and moving towards more expensive jobs or more knowledge-based economies. During the crisis, the share of resources allocated to research, development and innovation increased to 1.45% of GDP. In comparison, in 2000, ten years ago, it accounted for 0.6% of gross national income. The government certainly has a role to play; it also has a role to play in enabling us to use European funds. But these have been government political decisions. The most positive thing is that the private sector, or private economy, has actually increased in terms of expenditure on research, development and innovation. This ratio is now roughly as follows: the private sector 45%, the government sector 55%. We must, of course, continue in this direction; the state must contribute resources and work to ensure that the private economy also comes with it. This type of investment plays a real role here. I am not going to tell you, even in the last week's news, that a well-known company from all over the world is buying a company based in Estonia for $8.5 billion. 400 people work there in Estonia; they do not work anywhere else. They're paying taxes here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U39	Thank you, Mr. Ducks! The time for answering that question is over. Let us now go to the issues registered on the ground. Two on-the-spot questions can be submitted. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U40	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! My question concerns economic policy. The Government of the Republic has said that the procedure for distributing special fuel will change, but there is no good substitute. This has been confirmed by your colleague, the Minister for Agriculture, whom I have asked. I would like to congratulate you and I would like to ask you if you have any good ideas about this new regime, so that you can publish them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U41	In principle, government policy is such that in those sectors where the use of special fuel or less taxed fuel is logical and justified, it must be replaced by direct payments. In agriculture, for example, which you are likely to be interested in. The Ministry of Finance, together with other ministries involved, is currently working on a procedure to replace this exceptional excise duty on fuel by direct payments. This is certainly more effective than the general exception. This must be done, firstly, in those sectors where it is economically justified, secondly, where market competition does not really play such a large role. Consider, for example, construction. In construction, equipment is also used where there are differences in a certain way. We have been very much debating whether or not there is a justification for the exception and what its impact on final prices in the case of construction prices would be. If we look at the volatility of construction prices and what the impact of special fuel on the costs of building one object, I think we see that such an exception is not economically justified. Compensation arrangements for the sector in which they are economically justified will have to be made. These things should still come into effect together, both in terms of reducing the use of special fuel and in terms of implementing direct payments where necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U42	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U43	Mr. Minister! I don't really agree with the previous speaker. In my opinion, the second issue that plagues the Estonian electorate most is the financing of the Centre Party from Moscow and whether or not it is happening. This is also the problem of the Centre Party itself. I think it's problem number one. But when we're talking about rising electricity prices, problem number two is as follows. Am I right to understand that the price of electricity is very strongly influenced by the need to modernise the main energy production tools beakers, wires, poles, generators, etc., and that we are a little behind in this respect?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U44	The short answer is certainly yes. When we look at the pace of investment in the electricity system, the time of perestroika and Estonia's independence left a relatively large hole here. In some ways, we are now contributing to the generation capacity of electricity, as well as to the electricity supply infrastructure, to cover the underinvestment at that time. It's clear what it is. For investments to be made in the most economically rational way, it is reasonable to organise a functioning market that protects consumers. That is what we want to do in terms of production capacity. Perhaps some imagine that the Minister of Economic Affairs is ordering you to build a power plant somewhere. That's not how it works. If we even gave the order, in order to get the money, we still have to go to the capital markets, either in Stockholm or in London, and it asks what our economic environment and our market situation are in 20 years' time. On this basis, they give money to invest. In fact, the changes we make for a long time will certainly give the consumer the most reasonable price.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U45	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U46	Let us go to the third question, which is the question of Valeri Korb to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. It's about fishing. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! Last year, by decree of the Minister for the Environment, fishing on Lake Peipsi was banned three months before the end of the year. Madam Minister, please explain what will happen to fishing on Lake Peipsi this autumn if two thirds of the local quota have been caught in one month and once again fishers are threatened with early catch restrictions in the second half of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good questioner! First of all, thank you for this question, which is obviously important for many fishermen. I think it will only be useful to deal with this issue in this Chamber. It cannot be said that the quota has already been fished for two thirds, but the local quota is quite close to it. I'll send you all these data electronically later, but here I'll read some of them out. The situation at the end of April was such that 3% of the quota of 1744 tonnes of bass was officially used, 42% of the quota of 110 tonnes of pike and 24% of the quota of 600 tonnes of pike. The quota is 600 tonnes, of which 57% had been used up at the end of April. Indeed, this percentage is quite high. Important of them, as you mentioned in your question, is the same local quota. When the quota is exhausted, it will inevitably mean a ban on fishing, because any gear used will also catch the place. So the current forecast really is that this autumn season is likely to be relatively short for our fishermen. When the local quota is exhausted, restrictions must be applied. In essence, the recommendation made by the Ministry of the Environment to fishermen has been to cooperate more closely and to distribute the quota a little more evenly over the year. That's the situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U49	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U50	Thank you. Madam Minister! The Peipsi has developed a situation where Russian fishermen are fishing all year round, but Estonian fishermen have had to stop fishing because of restrictions. With what views and suggestions will the Ministry of the Environment go to the Estonian-Russian fisheries negotiations to ensure fair exploitation of the stock on Lake Peipsi?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U51	Thank you, too, for this question. Negotiations will take place in mid-June. As every year, this time the Ministry of the Environment has planned one of the most serious meetings with fishermen before finalising its positions in order to establish and harmonise our position. This year, it's exactly the same. I am happy to keep the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu informed about the results of these negotiations. The end of the negotiations is in the middle of June, but I think it makes sense if the Committee on the Environment is familiar with them. As far as fishing quotas in the Russian Federation are concerned, quotas in themselves are equally divided between countries. I mentioned Estonia's data above. On the basis of official data from Russia, they have currently used their quotas for all species for a total of around 10%. The figures in Estonia were much, much larger. According to data from the Russian Federation, at the end of April 2% of the quota was fished, 16% of the pike quota, 5% of the Latin quota, and only 6% of the quota has been fished by the Russian Federation on the basis of the data submitted at the end of April. Their claim is that they did not have as successful winter ice fishing as it was on the Estonian side, and this has also led to huge differences in official data. Once again, when it comes to the position in the negotiations, we are also working with Estonian fishermen to prepare it, and we are happy to keep the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu up to date and inform it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U52	Thank you. Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U53	Thank you. Madam Minister! How do you assess a situation where the stock of bass is good, but fishermen are still threatened by a regulation of the Ministry of the Environment, which may prohibit fishing with many fishing gears, which will result in a partial failure to catch the quota of bass allocated to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U54	Thank you, good manager. Honourable questioner! The Åland stock is indeed very good. Fishermen may be wise to put more emphasis on fishing for bass with traps in the current situation, given that even if the local quota is not yet exhausted, it is still only less than half of it by autumn. As far as restrictions are concerned, we are not planning any restrictions on trap fishing as of now. This fishery will last summer, but at the same time fishing with nets and bottom seines will be prohibited, precisely because large quantities of fishing will enter them. As far as restrictions are concerned, you are probably aware that the Minister for Agriculture has the opportunity to react very quickly on the basis of a relatively recent amendment. If, for example, it can be seen that 90% of the local quota has already been met, temporary restrictions can be applied on a temporary basis. If the details of the data show that the quota is still available, it is possible that the authorisation of fishing gears will be given a flexible approach. Whether it is to be implemented this autumn and whether it will be implemented is early to say, but in any case I know that the Ministry of Agriculture will closely monitor this issue and consider these options.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U55	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U56	Madam Minister! I think there are four people in this Chamber who, although belonging to different political parties, represent the interests of the fishermen of Peipsi. Continuing on the subject raised by my colleague Korb, I would like to point out or say that I have the feeling that we are playing different games with the Russians. We are talking about quotas, some papers, banning fishing for seines and traps, etc. It's all beautiful, but the real thing is that the government's sanctioned robbery fishing is taking place on the Russian side, which is also visible from the shores of Estonia. Any idea how to force the Russian side to act civilized? For what is the point of talking about quotas when a Russian fisherman comes and just goes north? Zero!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U57	Thank you, good questioner! I think what I say applies not only to the questioner, but also to all the rest. If anyone has evidence of a breach of the law, such information must be addressed to the competent institutions. As regards cooperation between Estonia and Russia on fishing in Peipsi, I must say that cooperation and negotiations have so far also been relatively constructive at the level of officials. Here was a reference to the data to be provided and whether or not these data are quite accurate. The data is still collected and presented by the country that is fishing, i.e. Estonia collects, presents and controls its data, Russia's own. Unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to check every day whether or not the data provided by Russia is accurate to the decimal place. There will be twice a year of joint expeditions between the two parties to control the situation. This job is on. But I come back to the beginning of my reply: if anyone has information that one or the other law is being violated in the Republic of Estonia, then it needs to be responded to.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U58	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Listening to you and Valeri Korb's constructive discussion and adding them to the bill, I remembered that some 4,000 tons of fish were caught in Peipsi a year. Have quotas decreased now and what is the perspective? When I put together the numbers you read out there, I couldn't get enough of 2,000.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U60	Thank you for your question. Quotas still depend on the stock. For example, there was a pretty good stock of bass. In the case of Åland, the situation is that a strong stock of quite several years is likely to allow this quota to be increased by an estimated 500 tonnes as early as next year. The same is true of the place. This generation, which is now being caught, is a very strong generation, the 2005 generation. The next generation of just as strong will only come from 2009, which means that this year is likely to be quite a problem, that a number of undersized fish will also be caught in fishing gear during the autumn season. This is a problem that needs to be addressed by fishermen, scientists and the fisheries administration together. The quantities, yes, vary from one year to another and depend on a specific stock. At the moment, it can and must be said that the stock in Peipsi is quite well off in itself. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U61	Thank you. I will conclude on the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U62	Let's go to question four. This question is addressed to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts on the price of heating and the question is asked by the member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Very honourable Minister! You argued that competition was working in all our areas. I'm trying to tell you otherwise. Based on the data provided by the Competition Authority, it can be argued that the price of heat is more favourable in those areas where wood and peat are used for heating: the price of heat in these areas is €650-750 per megawatt-hour. The highest price is for companies using natural gas or liquid fuel. There's a warm price of about 1,000 kroons per megawatt-hour. This means that the price difference is around one third. That is why my question is: how do I force those companies that heat with gas and liquid fuel to use local fuel, to bring down the warm price and to create jobs so that this money stays in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U64	Thank you. Good question. By the way, the Monopoly Control Act provides for such a mechanism that the Competition Authority has certain possibilities to channel investment into heat production depending on the fuel used. True, we must admit that this is not happening quickly, but theoretically and practically there is this possibility. We see in many parts of Estonia that heat production based on more expensive fuels simply disappears from the market because of the so-called price situation. Of course, there is always a question of the price perspective for 10 to 15 years, but such a mechanism is provided for by this law. Another thing worth pointing out about the warm price is decisions that are usually made "automatically." These are the decisions on the designation of district heating areas by municipalities under the law. In fact, of course, more should be done to give individual apartment buildings and areas of apartment buildings the opportunity to exit the district heating area if they so wish. In other words, municipalities should make these decisions much more substantively, not lightly create this so-called administrative monopoly, which, thanks to the municipality's decision, has a relatively carefree life, as it is guaranteed a solid customer base. I think that cooperation between the Competition Authority and local authorities will be a key issue in the future in order for us to have an effective heat economy. As a result, consumers should win at prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U65	Thank you. No more questions right now. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U66	Let's get to question five. The questioner is Viktor Vassilyev, a member of the Riigikogu, and the subject is pensions. Mart Laar, Minister of Defence in charge of the Prime Minister. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U67	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the Prime Minister's duties! Five weeks ago, the Estonian Päevaleht wrote about pensioners who paid too much income tax because they had not submitted an application in time. Four weeks ago, in Question Time, I asked Prime Minister Ansip what it was like. I received the answer that neither the state has a duty to monitor how citizens consume the benefits they receive, and in addition, a large proportion of these people are either weak-minded or have an antisocial way of life. However, the Prime Minister promised that people would be informed, that applications would be collected from them, and that the income tax paid unfairly would be refunded. It's been a month, no press, no word of it anywhere. My constituents are curious and ask me what's going on. You are the Prime Minister today and now for us. I'm asking you, how's this going, how's the notification and refund going?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable questioner! This is undoubtedly an important issue. If you look at this whole process, the disclosure of this information has quite quickly led to the additional receipt of applications for exemption by the pension institution. By mid-April, they had already been received by nearly 400, four days from there, when the government had also spoken on the subject, already over 1,000. Given that this is quite a good lesson in the need for determined and specifically targeted communication, the Social Insurance Board has sent specific names to pensioners about how they should operate in this situation. I also found out that this issue is being dealt with by the Commission, where you belong. Before I came here, I spoke to the chairman of the committee, Margus Tsahkna, who is working hard to resolve this problem and is in constant contact with the Social Insurance Board to get these invitations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U69	Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, on behalf of the Prime Minister. It is known that many of these people are of very high age and that many earthly journeys may end before the day of happiness. So they have moved to a better world without pain or pain or pain or the government run by Mr Ansip. That's how they're gonna miss the money, or they're gonna get the government. Do you know what the state intends to do with this money? Even the sums are somewhat predictable, as the mortality rate of certain age groups is known. If this money is to be distributed, how will you, as a member of the government, be involved in this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U71	Honourable questioner! I have to admit, it's going to be a little difficult for me to find the connections between your second question and this subject. But I'll have to try, if that's what you're asking. With such morbid predictions, I wouldn't want to go along with it on the floor. However, the state should learn from this problem and do serious work, which the state will do, so that people will be better informed in the future. Let us recall the extent of the problem. When we look at the state of the beginning of April, there were nearly 290000 old-age pension businesses in Estonia. Of these, almost 235000 had submitted a statement to implement the general exemption. We are talking about some 17,000 people, for whom communication remained weak and poor. The state must certainly be able to ensure communication and work to improve it. Like I said, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U72	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U73	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, on behalf of the Prime Minister. My morbid emotions come not from myself, but, unfortunately, from the elderly people who have approached me with this question. But I want to check with you on the following. You see, the problem is that not only 17000 people are affected, but 290,000 old-age pensioners, many of whom do not remember whether they have applied or not. I have information from the Social Insurance Board that the halls of the Agency are entirely about people asking questions and trying to write a statement. People are confused at all. The confusion is caused by 290000 people. Tell me, please, what is your assessment of the government's response to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable questioner! It was harder for me now to understand your question. At the beginning, I sensed that you were talking about a problem caused by 290000 people, 235,000 of whom do not know if they have applied for it or not. Then I realized that the government or the Estonian state was guilty of something, because we have introduced such an exemption. I do think that the Estonian state has taken the right step in introducing this tax exemption, and I do not think that we have caused the people a problem by the fact that we have introduced it. If you want to imply that, I am again very surprised at how you might have come up with such an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U75	Thank you. Now, one issue registered on the spot. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! You are right, we really discussed this issue in the Committee on Social Affairs and we unanimously concluded that this lack of information probably affected most Russian-speaking people. Since you admitted that this was a painful lesson, can it be concluded that the government will in future improve the information of the Russian-speaking population in this area as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U77	Thank you for your question. Very possibly, it could be. Unfortunately, I do not have any specific data on the population to which it relates. But the government certainly needs to improve information sharing. This lesson has been learned.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U78	I shall finish the fifth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U79	Let's go to the last, sixth question. The questioner is Olga Sõtnik, a member of the Riigikogu, and his question is for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. The topic of the question is the activities of the Estonian Internet Foundation. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U80	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to come to this old issue, which you and I discussed several times in this Chamber during the previous term. That's the kind of thing I want to ask. Is the Estonian Internet Foundation's annual report ready or not? In your last reply on 31 January, you wrote to me that it should be prepared and made public within four months of the end of the financial year. It is already six months, but unfortunately this report is not on their website. Does it not exist at all or, if so, why has it not been published? The public's interest in it is quite high. The Prime Minister also pointed out that all costs and benefits must be disclosed so that the price of domain registration is clear. My question is: what has happened to the annual report?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U81	Thank you. According to the law, this report has been submitted to the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance and, as far as I know, the foundation will make it public next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U82	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U83	Thank you. I hope you've come to know this before this follow-up was sent. How do you estimate the number of domains that are now registered (about 55000 according to my data) will give you the hope that the price of the domain might fall in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U84	These decisions are made, I simply repeat, by the Estonian Internet Foundation, which has two founders: the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Union, representing the Internet community, and the state. The Board of Foundation includes one person from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, one from the Ministry of Education and one from the Estonian Bar Association. Three people are representatives of the Association on Information Technology and Telecommunications. That's how it was agreed upon at the foundation. The issue of fees should be resolved in parallel with the preparation of the budget. The fees depend on the number of domains. If we look at this in a broad sense (it is not up to me to decide), there is certainly reason to believe that in 2012 the Council will be able to correct the issue of remuneration. It is important that the Estonian Internet Foundation is independent, in the sense of independence, so that it is not publicly funded, so-called government-funded and, to a certain extent, influenced. It is still an important principle of Internet neutrality and independence that we must implement. Estonian Internet Foundation must also look at its long-term financial activities in the long term. But, yes, we can see that the domain reform has been successful in a broad sense, and 60000 domains have been registered today. If this need continues, it will also mean continued remuneration and can therefore be corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U85	Thank you. Olga Soldier, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U86	Thank you. In my opinion, however, he cannot be a hundred percent independent body because, as far as I know, he has recently received funds from European Union funds, and that is precisely through the state. It is therefore not entirely self-financing. I don't know how long he's gonna get these funds from these funds. But my third and final question concerns a slightly different subject. Another major problem was the disappearance of pri.ee subdomain pages from the Internet. Has anything changed in the meantime and has there been a common understanding with the Estonian online community of what to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U87	Thank you. Certain domains are read in accordance with the principles of Internet governance as a set of TLDs for which sub-domains of this nature pose a security risk. As a result, the 'pri.ee' issue had to be resolved in the course of this reform. At the same time, we can see that a certain subdomain can also be offered free of charge under the new regime. What is the current state of play with these pri.ee domains? Before the elections, it was claimed that we were worse than, I don't know, Mubarak, that we were stealing huge information, hiding, losing it, throwing away. I'm sure that's not true. Once again, all the information that exists in these domains is available on servers. Life has shown that very many of them have re-registered themselves as "basic domains," which are very logical and probably useful to them. I believe that some of the tension that's been here may have decreased a little by now. At least that's what I want to hope for. On a broad scale, I think we were hopelessly late to change the domain arrangement. It may have been the worst arrangement in the world. We have made things more or less right when we look at the direction in which the management of the entire Internet and the related issues are going. I think it will take another year to complete the reform until the Internet Foundation receives the necessary rights also in the International Internet Management Organisation, registrations in the US Government, etc. In this respect, work must definitely continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U88	Thank you very much. I will conclude Question 6 and Question Time. Many thanks to the members of the Government of the Republic, thank you very much to the questioners. Today, May 18th Question Time is adjourned.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U89	Respectable Riigikogu, good day! We will begin the sixth working week session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Speaking chair, Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am submitting to the proceedings of the Riigikogu the proposal of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu to appoint the members of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund in accordance with § 10 of the Estonian Development Fund Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U91	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U92	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! I and seven other members of the Social Democratic Party have an inquiry into compliance by the Government of the Republic with the legal standards. The inquiry is addressed to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. The need to ensure the constitutional rights and freedoms of everyone, to increase the coherence of society and the effectiveness of the legal system has been stressed in the legislative policy developments until 2018. The same document also talks about providing systemic attention to legal awareness, and it should become regular by the end of 2013. At the same time, there are problems in measuring any kind of awareness. As one of them, the question of the period that determines regularity must be resolved. Current experience shows that this period may in some cases be unreasonable. The Act on Gender Equality adopted in 2004 provides for the establishment of a collegial advisory body, the Gender Equality Council. Although the Statute for the formation of this Council has already been adopted in 2005, the Council has not yet been established. The government has failed to comply with another obligation imposed by this law: to adopt a government regulation according to which employers can analyse the situation of gender inequality in their organisation. The signatories want to know whether the Minister of Justice considers it important for the Government of the Republic to comply with the law and what the optimal period of time could be from which legal awareness should be measured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U93	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U94	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 18 members of the Central Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Agriculture. The inquiry concerns the rise in food prices and the common agricultural policy and the financial framework of the European Union since 2014. We are going to address seven questions in our inquiry, which concern the basic support proposed by the Government of the Republic and, of course, the reduction of VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U95	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U96	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Riigikogu! I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Pevkur, signed by 18 members of the Central Party Group. Inquiry concerns children and child poverty. In fact, we have recently learned with pride that the international organisation Save the Children thinks that Estonia is a country where it is good to have children. And we really do stand out with the relatively long maternity leave and the compensation paid at home with the child. However, the state must not only provide support in the first years of the child's life, but also continue to survive until the age of adulthood. Data tell us that as early as 2007, 1 in 10 Estonian children lived in poverty. To date, the situation has actually deteriorated. In the city of Tallinn alone, s. More income support in March 2007 than in the whole of 2007. Thus, the number of children living from income support will also increase. For example, in Tallinn it has tripled over the last three years. Consequently, our questions to the Minister for Social Affairs mostly concern the amount of child benefit, which is currently EUR 19 and 18 cents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U97	Thank you very much. There are no further drafts or inquiries to be submitted. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted three inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. Now I'll give you the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Law on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers, initiated on 16 May, the Governing Commission, the Committee on Legal Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft decision of the Riigikogu "Given a State guarantee for a loan between the European Investment Bank and the foundation North-Estonian Regional Hospital," initiated on 16 May, commission of the Finance Committee; thirdly, in the Group of the Estonian Central Party. a draft law on the amendment of the Advertising Act, initiated on 16 May, commission of the Economic Affairs Committee; fourthly, the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. a draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax, initiated on 16 May, commission of the Finance Committee; fifthly, in the Estonian Central Party faction. a Draft Act amending § 2 of the Holidays and Deadlines Act, initiated on 17 May, commission of the Constitutional Commission. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus. The members of the Riigikogu formed a parliamentary group in Cambodia yesterday. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up a support group for the protection of human rights and political freedoms in Iran. Immediately thereafter, it will be possible to meet with Hassan Nayebagha, Chairman of the Foreign Committee of the Iranian National Resistance Council, and other representatives of the Iranian opposition in exile. There is also a message, quite rightly a reminder, that today, at 2.45 p.m., the Riigikogu will have a meeting in room 241 with our guest today, Dr Norbert Lammert, President of the German Parliament. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 87 delegates have been registered, 14 members of the Riigikogu are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U98	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today we have a great honour and a great opportunity to meet the President of the German Parliament, Dr Norbert Lammert, in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, who will give us a welcome speech. The speech is in German and you have the opportunity to listen to its translation into Estonian via the simultaneous translation receiver, which is available on your desks at channel 2. Mr Norbert Lammert, President of the German Parliament. Welcome to the Riigikogu and I beg you for your speech chair! Lieber College, sehr geehrte Präsident des Deutschen Bundestages, willkommen im Estnischen Parliament Riigikogu! Ich bitte Sie zum Rednerpult! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U99	[[A German translation.]] Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your friendly invitation. I am very pleased that I have the opportunity this afternoon to confirm here in your Parliament the great interest of Germany in the close cooperation that we have between our countries and, in particular, our parliaments. It's only been twenty years since your country regained national independence and my country found its way back to national unity. These events are closely historical in relation to the transformation of relations in Europe that we could hardly imagine for decades and which many of us probably no longer considered possible. But it has been twenty years, and during that time, a new generation of young people have grown up in Estonia and Germany, who have never experienced relationships different from those of today, and who, of course, take the current relationship for granted. We all understand that the current situation in Europe is perhaps the greatest achievement in Europe's hundreds of years of history. It is understandable to us that the complex history of the peoples and nations of Europe has gone in a different way for centuries, and that what we have achieved in the area of contractually organised cooperation structures is not seen as merely a great historic gift, it must be understood as a common major task. I would like to congratulate you, with our cooperation, on the fact that, as a new Member State of the Community, you have been able to become not only a member of the European Community, but also a member of the Eurozone, with exceptional determination, but that you have also set standards for cooperation. I sincerely wish other Member States to draw inspiration from this too. This applies not only to the new Member States, which, like Estonia, have only become members of the Union in recent years, but also, above all, to a number of other countries which have been part of the Community for a long time and to whom the agreed standards of cooperation, which have been designed in this way, have been considerably more difficult to meet. Since I have been a Member for more than thirty years myself, I can well imagine the debates that you certainly had to have here in order to shape a understandable and ultimately majority-supported policy, which, rather, could not take into account the great and spontaneous enthusiasm of the population. You will certainly find little comfort when I say that in Germany we face at least the same challenges. From time to time, one or the other of us refers to the example that you have shown us, being considerably smaller, but probably a much more ambitious member of the Community. At the same time, after the global financial crisis, you have faced even greater challenges linked to the total economic output and the state budget. However, you did not want to rely first and foremost on the help of others, but on your changed needs in the transformation process. I also highlight this because, by looking soberly at our cooperation, we need to protect the stabilisation criteria agreed jointly in the coming months and in the coming years. We are not finished with this yet. It is not yet clear whether the financial crisis is really over, or whether we are only taking up a difficult development in the fourth or fifth year. At the same time, we know with certainty that if we want to implement on a permanent basis this crisis mechanism, which was developed by the European Union in the short term and temporarily as a result of the financial crisis, we can only succeed in doing so if it operates on the basis of crystal clear criteria that apply to everyone and which must apply, in particular, when the situation is difficult, this crisis mechanism is intended for an emergency. This is something you are facing with fierce discussions, just as they are taking place in Germany. But it is all the more important that those countries that have clearly-designed supervision to ensure economic stability and financial security work together successfully. And in Germany, as a founding member of the Community, it is certainly clear that what kind of political culture develops and applies in this respect depends not only on the size of the country but also on cooperation between Member States. The subject to be dealt with will have an additional dimension if we are to bear in mind the fact that, by the way, we do not usually do this, and it does not have to be done every day that the European Union of twenty-seven countries is not only a major achievement in European history, but the European Union is the only global example of what many other nation states are seriously pursuing and defending in the age of globalisation. The meaning of what we achieve or do not achieve goes far beyond the borders of the Community, and it is a positive or negative message throughout the world about what cooperation can and cannot achieve. The attempt to unite so far has not yet been made in all mankind's history. It has not been for countries to unite because they achieve better results together in view of their permafrost interests than by acting alone, that they implement this concept in such a way that they transfer their sovereign rights to the Community, which is following them at the task of the Member States, without at the same time losing in any way their national sovereignty. Europe is not a state, it is a community of states that are increasingly gaining its character as a result of the transfer of more and more competences. There are no examples of this kind of construction anywhere else so far. It is fascinating on the one hand and complex on the other. It is precisely for this reason that we need closer cooperation not only between governments but also between parliaments, because the exercise of sovereignty has, in its entirety, been the responsibility of democratically elected parliaments. That is why Europe has entered a new phase of development with the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty, where national parliaments are participating alongside the European Parliament as part of the development of European legislation as set out in the Treaty. After listening to my views, perhaps you will not be surprised that the same will, in my opinion, apply in exactly the same way in the implementation of the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me conclude by giving you a particularly good wish with regard to the European Capital of Culture 2011. I am particularly happy to do this because I myself come from Ruhrimaa, Germany, which was the European Capital of Culture last year with Istanbul and Pécs in Hungary. As a result, I know quite well how such a year can develop and bring about self - awareness and self - understanding. I like the idea of the Capital of Culture, especially because it is carried out in different parts of Europe, but regularly every year, placing the focus on an area that is considered to be more remote, namely art and culture. As if, of course, it were a lovable area, but it was a rather insignificant area, which it is not possible to compare with Europe's core activities. But I am telling you, and I am saying this, not in the context of the European Capitals of Culture, but in the broader sense, that it is precisely the opposite. The core of the European accession process is not the economy, nor is it the policy; it is culture. If anything holds Europe and, among other things, every nation and every country together, it is not business transactions or political interests, but common experiences, common history, common traditions, common convictions, thus all that has developed over generations and centuries, which mints the national self-consciousness and, at the same time, the specificities of the entire continent. That is why you can light two major fires at a time this year: one for an impressive start as a new Member State in the euro area and the other for a convincing contribution to Europe's cultural self-consciousness. I am pleased that we can do this together, and I very much welcome the extremely close and friendly cooperation between our countries and parliaments this year and next year. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U100	Sehr geehrter Herr Bundestags Präsident Lammert, wir bedanken uns bei Ihnen für Ihre wunderbare Rede! Vielen herrzlichen Dank! Mr Lammert, President of the German Parliament, thank you for this excellent speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U101	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let's get to today's agenda. There are two draft laws on the agenda. The first item is the first reading of Bill No 12 on the ratification of the Cotonou Agreement, initiated by the Government of the Republic, for the second time. Urmas Paeti, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Chair, please present!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U102	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is a draft law aimed at ratifying the Agreement amending for the second time the Partnership Agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 June 2000 and first amended in Luxembourg on 25 June 2005. The Agreement defines the principles of political and economic cooperation between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and provides an opportunity for economic cooperation agreements to be concluded in order to promote economic cooperation. In order to discuss political dialogue and human rights issues, the Agreement also establishes a consultation procedure between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific States concerned. This agreement was first concluded for 20 years in 2000, and is reviewed every five years. This was last done in 2005, when the agreement was first amended. Last year, a second amendment was made to the agreement in accordance with the rules of procedure. The aim of the second revision is to make such amendments to the Cotonou Agreement as include commitments made by the European Union in recent years. Above all, these are commitments based on the UN Millennium Goals, those related to peace and security, as well as to climate change. Some of the changes will also simplify the implementation of the Cotonou Agreement. Above all, the regulation of trade cooperation, humanitarian and emergency aid and post-emergency assistance procurement and regional integration will be amended. The aim is also to better highlight the principles of development cooperation effectiveness, ownership, harmonisation and the management and reporting of aid aimed at achieving results. They will also be complemented by cooperation in the fight against HIV and AIDS. To highlight three major changes, these are, above all, the consideration of the Millennium Goals and climate change in all aspects of the Treaty, the separate identification of the African Union as a partner in cooperation and the emphasis on the great role of parliaments and local authorities themselves in development. This agreement, that is to say, will enter into force once it has been ratified by the Member States and at least two thirds of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States. This amendment to the contract shall apply from 31 October of the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U103	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister Urmas Paet! I would like to present the Chair's Vice-Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law on ratification of the second amendment of the Cotonou Agreement at its regular meeting on 10 May. Annely Kolk, Director of the Office for International Contracts of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Martin Karner, Director of the Office for Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation, Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid, were also invited. The representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented the Cotonou Agreement to the members of the Commission in the context of the European Union's development cooperation, its second amendment and its impact. Let it be said here that some members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs were working in this house even when we discussed the amendment of this agreement for the first time a few years ago. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to submit draft No 12 to first reading. The committee decided to propose to the management board of the Riigikogu a draft for the first reading of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 18 May and to close the first reading. In accordance with § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Commission proposes to fix ten working days by which amendments will be submitted at the end of the first reading of the draft law. The rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs was confirmed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U105	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Frontland. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. The first reading of Bill No 12 on the ratification of the Cotonou Agreement, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 1 June at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U106	Today's second item is the first reading of the Bill 28 on Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, relating to the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. I'd like a presentation from Secretary of Defense Mart Laari.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Today, I am really happy to present to you the law implementing the amendment of the Constitution, which lays the foundations for a long journey in order to thoroughly modernise, improve and improve Estonian national defence. The draft follows on from this amendment to the Constitution, for which I would like to thank and congratulate the Riigikogu once again, and ultimately amends 19 laws. In order to be able to actually implement the amendments to the Constitution, we are so quickly before you following the approval of the amendment to the Constitution. As I said, we are going to amend 19 laws. These are mainly technical amendments which are based on amendments to the Constitution. The main content of the draft is, however, the establishment of the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces, the Chief of General Staff, the commanders of the armed groups and the Head of the Defence League. In doing so, the draft follows the same principle as the amendment of the Constitution: that the leaders of the Defence Forces forming part of the executive power are appointed by the executive power. During the drafting of the draft, we consulted the Defence Forces in depth, consulted the Defence Union, consulted the various parties, in order to reach a consensual solution that is best and most effective in deciding on such issues. As you can see from the draft coordination papers, the desired coordinated solution has been reached. According to the draft, the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces are appointed by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Defence and has previously heard the opinion of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. This process allows a broad political decision: the decision is made by the executive, but in consultation with the Riigikogu. The Head of the Defence League is appointed by the Government of the Republic on a joint proposal from the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Minister of Defence. Commanders of the armed groups shall be appointed by the Minister of Defence on a proposal from the Commander of the Defence Forces. By approving this draft, the management of Estonian national defence will become clearer and more effective and thus increase Estonia's defence capability in the event of real crises. The latter, however, is certainly the surest guarantee that Estonia will never come to real crises. I would like to thank all the parties, including the National Defence Committee, for its good cooperation, which has enabled this draft to move forward quickly and effectively. I hope that the Riigikogu will make a good and right decision, and this bill will be passed as a law in time to launch subsequent changes to the various laws that the Ministry of Defence is preparing for in broad cooperation. Soon we will bring these drafts before you in order to complete the work that has been started and raise Estonia's defence and security to a new level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U108	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U109	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! We are now in an exceptionally good position because you are also in the hands of the Prime Minister. If the military conflict started tomorrow, it would be relatively easy for the Commander of the Defence Forces to address the Prime Minister without your mediation. My concern and question is motivated by the fact that the current legislative package introduces a situation where the Commander of the Defence Forces is subject to the Minister of Defence, but at the same time, in the event of a military conflict, the activities are regulated on the territory of Estonia by the Prime Minister. The Commander of the Defence Forces must communicate with the Prime Minister through you. Don't you see a slight contradiction here? The creation of such a situation cannot be called a modern step and a simplification of national defence management. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U110	I've been talking to the Commander of the Defence Forces about the same subject. He is absolutely convinced that this situation is not too complicated. And, as I said earlier, we discussed the issue briefly in the relevant committee of the Riigikogu, where it was agreed that any additional questions and additional problems would be collected and sent to the Minister of Defence. With these new draft laws, which I have spoken about briefly, we want to put in place all kinds of procedures so that we can switch to a broad-based concept of national defence. As Minister of Defence, I consider this to be extremely necessary. This was also recently discussed in the President's respective Council. These draft laws are in preparation and will, I believe, be in front of you in the next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U111	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U112	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would like to ask a question that the Riigikogu will have to ask when discussing today's topic. On the basis of this bill, what is the role of the National Defence Commission in naming these high officials? Publishing an opinion, shaping an opinion, saying it? Above all, is this opinion counseling or binding or even binding? After all, the Riigikogu and the respective committees are the only assembly at this stage of the procedure where opposition representatives are also represented.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U113	This issue was also addressed when we discussed this draft thoroughly and effectively in the Committee on National Defence. The first question arose as to whether this was the position or opinion of the National Defence Committee, and we quite jointly found that this was one of the important issues that the National Defence Committee is competent to decide for itself. I think we agree with this view. However, there is little difference between a legal opinion and an opinion, as in general the same procedure for setting up the same office is the same as that of several other institutions. I believe that, in the light of the entire objective of the draft, it is fully competent and, having discussed this issue with representatives of the Defence Forces and other parties, I know that this is also their opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U114	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U115	Thank you very much. Continuing to begin with Aivar Riisalu's point, I would say: twice prime minister, always prime minister. But by going to the point, my question is actually motivated by the desire to compliment the current Commander of the Defence Forces, whose retirement age I am truly sorry for. In my opinion, this is the leader of the best defence forces in Estonia, which has regained independence. But looking towards the Western countries, I would like to ask: would it be a precedent, or perhaps it has happened elsewhere, that some excellent individuals would be granted an exception and be overlooked for the established age line?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U116	We really have a very good Commander of the Defence Forces, and I fully agree with that assessment. He's so good that he doesn't want any exceptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U117	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is clear that the organisation of national defence in each country is a matter of its inner resolve. I ask in the light of this draft: are you familiar with the organisation in the countries of the European Union and also in NATO countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U119	The solutions are correct in a variety of ways and have also been studied and introduced to the public. But the system we're going to switch to is definitely in line with the general principles. And in particular, he complies with two very pervading principles. One is talking about civil control, the other is a newer concept, but it is clearly necessary and clearly spreading, and it is a broad-based concept of national defence. This latter is of vital importance to us if we are to face the threats of the 21st century and achieve a situation where we are not exposed to these threats. And the possibility of transition to this system is the draft we are debating today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U120	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The President of the Defence Forces is excluded from the National Defence Council with the President of the Republic. Is that wish or plan really worked out? Is that practical?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U122	All of this is the composition of this council, what it is called, how it will go along with the following laws, because the status of the President of the Republic and his duties will change very thoroughly. Just as he himself initiated these constitutional changes. As far as the Commander of the Defence Forces is concerned, I have just taken part with him in a very effective debate at the appropriate Presidential Assembly, where we also discussed the same broad concept.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U123	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This bill states and you explained in your brief presentation that the Commander of the Defence Forces and Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces will appoint and dismiss the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Defence. Here is also the sentence that the opinion of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu must be heard before being appointed. In your report, you added that this approach will ensure a broad decision. If we now look at the appointment and dismissal of the Chief of the Defence League, this will be done by the Minister of Defence on the proposal of the Commander of the Defence Forces, but the draft does not state that he will first listen to the opinion of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. Why is such an exception being made here and no longer listening to the voice of the representatives of the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U125	Honourable questioner! I do not know what draft you are talking about, because this draft, which is currently under discussion and which is also in the hands of the relevant committee, is regulated in another way. It must be acknowledged that this was exactly what you said in one of the drafts, but in the current draft it sounds after all the consultations that the Chief of the Defence League is appointed by the Government of the Republic on a joint proposal from the Defence Forces Commander and the Minister of Defence, not by the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U126	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U127	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! I have a question, just in case. The implementing provisions concern certain members of the Defence Forces, officials: the Commander of the Defence Forces, who will be due in the autumn, Chief of General Staff, commanders of the armed groups, Chief of the Defence League. When this law is applied, do those currently in office have to go through this process, or are those who are now in place, in office until the end of their term, or until some change in life forces them to leave?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U128	In this respect, we will wait when and how we will adopt this draft. This issue will certainly be clarified, in cooperation with the National Defence Committee, even before the draft comes to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U129	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U130	Thank you. Dear Mart Laar! In the meantime, it was decided who would become the Commander of the Defence Forces here in the Riigikogu Hall. Now this decision goes to the competence of the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu National Defence Committee is only asked for an opinion. Would your life and the government's decision be much more difficult than simply asking for an opinion would the law state that the National Defence Commission must approve the candidate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U131	I think this option is the best one, and precisely because it reduces the risk of politicising the defence forces. Having been a member of the Riigikogu for a long time, I remember some very stormy days in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu, and I do not wish the Republic of Estonia such stormy moments anymore. In this sense, in its current form, the draft is, in my opinion, the optimal option. I have also been seriously discussing this issue with the Commander of the Defence Forces, who has rightly been positively highlighted here, and I trust his expert opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U132	Thank you. Inara Luis, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You scared the hell out of me. I thought I did do some sort of social committee draft, but I consulted my colleagues and realized that I still have the right draft on the table. Let me ask you the same question again. The explanatory memorandum states that when the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces are appointed, the MPs are also asked for an opinion, and that is not the case with the Chief of the Defence League. My question is, why are there people bypassing the MPs?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U134	Nobody misses the people's ambassadors. This question was also raised in the Riigikogu Committee. As Minister of Defence, I recommended consulting with the Commander of the Defence Forces on this issue. I believe that he will provide a rather competent explanation on this subject, based on the logic of the structure of the defence forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U135	Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U136	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! In answering my previous question, you said that the decision to be taken in the Riigikogu was politicised. Why is such a decision made by MEPs who have received a mandate from the people more politicised than by a minister from one of the parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U137	First of all, I said it would reduce the threat of military politicisation. However, as far as one minister is concerned, if you look at this whole procedure, it is not one minister belonging to a party that makes this decision, but the decision is clearly a broader one. I think it's a good and proper system that we're going to cross over to.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U138	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U139	Thank you. I have a very specific question. At the moment, however, we are basically talking about a single term of office for the Commander of the Defence Forces. Why can't we still take the view that being a Commander of the Defence Forces may not be limited to a single term of office? If it is a good man, we should be able to extend his term of office if we have any interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U140	There are other questions and other boundaries. As far as the Commander of the Defence Forces is concerned, the Commander of the Defence Forces himself proposed some proposals. Especially in the event of the emergence of an event, I very much hope that there will not be a situation in which Estonia will be transferred to the conditions of wartime. The Commander of the Defence Forces made proposals not to strengthen his position, but to weaken his position and to give greater authority to the government at that time. However, in view of the need to adopt a specific draft quickly so that amendments to the Constitution can enter into force, we found that we would come back to these issues in subsequent drafts, whether they concern the Defence Service Act or the National Defence Law. Then we can also discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U141	There are no further questions for the rapporteur right now. Thank you very much, Secretary of Defense Mart Laar. Ms Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 4 May. At this meeting, the Minister of Defence Mart Laar, Vice-Chancellor of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence, Taimar Peterkop, and Veiko Lukmann, Adviser to the Minister of Defence, took part as the representative of the initiator of the draft. As the Minister of Defence noted, the primary objective of the draft is to bring national defence laws into line with the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia adopted by the two Riigikogus and which will enter into force on 22 July this year. In view of the fact that the draft provides for amendments to almost all laws on national defence and the fact that, within the framework of the work programme of the Government of the Republic, new draft laws on Defence Forces, Peace and Wartime Defence and Defence Union are being prepared in the Ministry of Defence, the National Defence Committee considered that problems, ideas and proposals raised during the procedure of this draft, which do not form amendments now, will be fixed and forwarded in writing to the Minister of Defence. This is to ensure that these issues are reflected in future legislative proposals. At its meeting on 4 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Management Board of the Riigikogu include the first reading of bill No 28 on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur for the initiators of the draft was the Minister for Defence Mart Laar, and the rapporteur for the National Defence Committee was appointed here. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus at its meeting to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading this bill first and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set a shorter deadline of three days for submitting amendments to the draft bill, i.e. three days. a 27 May at 3 p.m. Before finishing, I would like to return to the round of questions and say to my good colleague Toobal that the Commander of the Defence Forces will not leave the National Defence Council. The amendment proposal is to remove the Commander-in-Chief from that list. I'm done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U143	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Now we want to open negotiations. To Tõnis Palts, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U144	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, If mismanagement in a company can lead to financial losses, the military may have very sad consequences in terms of the loss of human life in the form of confusing, non-specific chain of command, lack of knowledge or even lack of knowledge. Even entire countries could disappear. This is why today's draft law is extremely important, and it organises the management of the state's defence structures both during wartime and during peacetime, harmonising and simplifying the entire chain of governance. I think it is necessary to summarise five important things that have, in fact, already sounded repeatedly in different speeches here. Firstly, the main point is the correct definition of the procedures for the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Chief of General Staff, the commanders of the armed groups and the Chief of the Defence League. It is important to note that the draft is based on the principle that the leaders of the Defence Forces, which are part of the executive power, are appointed by the executive power. Secondly, according to the draft, the President of the Defence Forces and the Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces are appointed by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, listening in advance to the opinion of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. This principle enables a broad-based political decision to be taken by the executive, after consulting the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the Head of the Defence League is appointed by the Government of the Republic on a joint proposal from the Defence Forces Commander and the Minister of Defence. This allows the Commander of the Defence Forces to elect a candidate for the Chief of the Defence League, appointed by the Government of the Republic. And fourthly, the commanders of the troops are appointed by the Minister of Defence on the proposal of the Commander of the Defence Forces. This procedure ensures a consensual decision by the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Minister of Defence. Finally, by adopting the bill, the management of the defence of the Estonian state will become clearer and more effective, and this will increase Estonia's defence capability in the event of crises. The bill abolishes the concept of Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces, and during both peace and wartime the Commander of the Defence Forces is in charge. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U145	Thank you very much. Aivar Riisalu now, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U146	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At first, I did not intend to speak on behalf of the group. But now I'm gonna do it. For the Centre Party, Estonian national defence is a very important issue and fundamental priorities, for which we are always prepared to go to political consensus, being in coalition or opposition, underground or in heaven. This is because Estonia is a very unique and good small country, located geographically in a place where it cannot think for a moment that it could perhaps give up military service, its army and perhaps contribute to national defence at all. That would mean that at some point we would have to feed a foreign army. The Centre Party has developed a very clear position in this regard. As one of these views within the party, I believe that we do not have to think about whether or not there will be a war. We need to figure out when he's gonna start. This means that if we make a coherent and cross-policy contribution to national defence, we will deal with deterrence every day. Our potential opponents see that there is no point in coming here just for a walk here is a people who want to protect their country. As a result, any attack on us in a situation where we dare to set up a discussion is, in fact, unwarranted. I am deeply concerned today that we are actually creating some points of pain right now in the operational leadership and nuances of our national defence. A good colleague, Palts, said that the insane management of the company is creating instability and bad economic results, and I say that if Mart Laar is no longer acting Prime Minister and if tomorrow someone attacks Estonia, then we are in a messy situation. In fact, in this sense, we are not in a confused situation tomorrow that Mart Laar will be in the position of Prime Minister tomorrow and will organise national defence with the Commander of the Defence Forces. Therefore, for the sake of clarity at the moment, which Mr Palts considered necessary, I should call on you to remain the Prime Minister of Mart Laar until we get the law straightened out. Look, darlings, just because we dare say that one thing or another is not in line with reality doesn't mean we're against these processes. Some citizens, both in the Riigikogu and wherever in Estonia, are trying to tell us that we do not want to. But we really want to! We also take the view that, as the Estonian Parliament has decided to amend the two-member constitution, the President must therefore be removed from this concept of national defence at all. After all, what role does he have left? The President now only has the right to impose on him, and I think he is no longer a clear and uniform part of the governance of national defence. Understand, dears, the truth will be revealed in disputes! The Centre Party will vote in favour of all the legislative changes that the Minister of Defence has presented to us today. And in any case, we support the continuation of national defence as it is today. No wage armies! No dispute.. Estonia must go its own way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-18_U147	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. The first reading of Bill No 28 of the Law on the Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 27 May at 3 p.m. There are no other items on today's agenda. The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice day! Closure of the sitting at 3.03 p.m.
