ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! There's 40 comms registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U2	Let's start with the first question. Please, Mr Toom's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! Last week we discussed the subject of land tax very violently in this Chamber, and we learned that coalition partners also disagree on this issue. Also within the Reform Party, the plan to exempt homeowners from land tax has given rise to disagreement, and your party partner, Mr Jürgen Ligi, spoke openly about this in this Chamber. Fortunately, however, the Tallinn City Government took your position and lost the land tax on the homeowners in today's session. This means that next year, the Tallinns will be freed from land tax, with no more than 1500 m2 underground. In this regard, I have the following question. Since the government's draft was largely due to Tallinn's wish for the land tax to disappear, it was urgent, and now there is no running anywhere, is there any hope that the government will listen to the Minister of Finance and push the draft law into the third quarter of the procedure so that the specialists of the ministry can also work on it and prepare the innovation thoroughly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U4	You can't believe this Tallinn City Government! He can take some stuff out of the ceiling today, and tomorrow it's an obligation for the people. We cannot build on this country's future. The bullying and humiliation of homeowners has been going on in Tallinn for years, and despite the fact that very reputable people, I refer to Mats Traadi and Debora Vaarand, for example, many times, the Tallinn City Government and government officials, nothing has been done to limit the predatory land tax applied to homeowners in any way. So much to remind you that at the time of the previous municipal elections, land tax was at the heart of the issue, and even then the Reform Party promised to abolish the tax on homeland land. There is no disagreement within the Reform Party as to whether or not to limit the land tax on homeowners. The question is how to establish this limit. For example, in a rich Swedish country, the border has been set at SEK 6000. Let us be clear: it is cuisine alongside land taxes paid in Tallinn. In Estonia, we have had a choice whether to impose some kind of summa tax ceiling or to free a certain number of square meters from land tax altogether. During the coalition negotiations, we agreed to free 1,500 m2 of homes from land tax, and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U5	I would now like to ask three questions registered on the spot. Oh, I'm sorry! Please, Mr Toom, you have priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U6	I'm sorry, I stayed and I didn't push the button.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U7	The first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U8	Mr. Prime Minister! I may have expressed myself somewhat wrong, but I would say that when Tallinn lost this infamous PGS case in court, he turned to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance sent a letter of recommendation to the City of Tallinn, which said that the city could raise the land tax rate to a maximum of 2.5%. Actually, it's a question of who's teasing who. But that's it. Tallinn City Government lost the land tax on homeowners at today's session. What is bullying and humiliation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U9	Bullying and humiliating is that all these blessed years, some part of the stables have had to pay a predatory land tax. If one home is paid a land tax of 20000, even 50,000 kroons per year, and the home owners have also sent them to the Prime Minister's office, then this cannot be called a gradual confiscation of property and has been dealt with in Tallinn for years. The fact that the city of Tallinn has now decided to follow the coalition's intentions and to abolish the land tax of 1500 m2 from the homeland is very welcome, but I am not exactly familiar with the decision of this city of Tallinn. I have heard that you intend, or maybe it has already been decided, to compensate for this loss of income by commercial premises or higher taxation of business land. There's no need for that. Also, if this is the case, as I have heard, there is a great deal of spite again, because the coalition has agreed to compensate local authorities for the loss of revenue. My personal view is that this loss of income from the land tax on local governments must be compensated by an increase in the share of personal income tax on local governments. In a calculation, this could mean that if the loss of revenue was estimated at 16.6 million euros, the current 11.4% would increase to 11.78% if I wasn't deceived by my memory.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U10	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U11	Just a reply so much that the increase in the rest of the land tax is due to the desire of your party partner-led ministry. But here's the question. Regular land valuation has taken place in the Republic of Estonia three times in 1993-2001. This has not been done in the last ten years, and we all know that we have ex-peacities, which have since become very attractive habitats, and there are villages that are no longer as attractive as they were ten years ago. For what reason has the Government of the Republic abandoned its plan to carry out a regular land assessment in 2012?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U12	First of all, you will be able to amaze not only me, but the entire Estonian people if you claim that the Centre Party in Tallinn has decided to become guided by the wishes of my party partner. Why, then, have you ignored not only the wishes of my partymates, but the wishes of a great many tallinians all these years when the central party city government of Tallinn has demanded an unreasonable amount of land tax on the owners of the house? So much for a regular land valuation, it's my personal position, but I'm convinced that by valuing the prices of the land by civil servants, it's a rudimentary matter at all. The price is known to be on the market according to the supply-demand ratio and I do not think that some costly bureaucratic procedure should be launched to determine the price of the land. And if you think of my party partner's alleged recommendation, I am convinced that a new regular valuation of the land, which will certainly lead to a higher price for the land, will also result in the central party Tallinn City Government spreading its hand and saying that, yes, unfortunately, we cannot do anything about it, we will have to strip 2.5 times more of the land tax from you again, just as the Tallinn City Government has already decided. It would make sense not to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U13	I would now like to ask three questions registered on the spot. First of all, my colleague, Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister! Under the Coalition Agreement, the Reform Party Group and the IRL Group initiated the abolition of land tax, which hits all Estonian municipalities. This draft law shrouded both the thoughtful cucumber of the draft as an example of the objective of the bill, which was to reduce the permanence of indigenous space from the cuisine of the language. There were at least 17 spelling errors on one page. And the only reason why this crack was dragged on in the Riigikogu was to punish Tallinn. It is empty that the remaining 225 Estonian municipalities are also losing because of this. I have Pärnu Postimees here today, where the rural municipalities of Pärnumaa also say that it is confusing for them how this tax withdrawal is compensated for. This is crazy! Let us be honest, Prime Minister, what you are saying cannot be considered serious, because right now we only have a vague promise, but you have made promises to the local government leaders before, and you have not fulfilled them. My question is that when Tallinn is no longer ahead, the Tallinn land tax for the land under home has been abolished, just as you wanted to see if it would be worth punishing the rest of the Estonian municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U15	The coalition has never had the purpose of punishing the City of Tallinn or Tallinn City Government. The aim of the coalition is to protect those residents of Tallinn who have been punished for years by the central party Tallinn City Government and the central party Tallinn Council. And only with this desire has the coalition decided to exempt homes from land tax for 1500 m2. I cannot in any way agree with your argument that this partial exemption from land tax penalises all local authorities. On the contrary, the coalition has promised that the income foregone from the land tax exemption will be compensated for by the state budget for the local authorities. As I have already said, my personal view is that this loss of income should be compensated for by the local authorities by increasing the share of personal income tax for local authorities: if, at present, 11.4% of personal income tax goes to local authorities, then in future it could be 11.72% if the current gross domestic product is taken into account. This has, of course, changed in 2013, so this percentage may also change, but the aim is to compensate local authorities for the total loss of income, i.e. EUR 16.6 million. And it is fair to compensate local governments for the amount of income lost, rather than reward those who have robbed their citizens over the years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U16	Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U17	Thank you. Prime Minister! You are currently performing very populistly and giving extensive misleading and false information. We all know very well that the land tax on Tallinn was 1.5%, which has now disappeared, even when it existed, one of the Estonian averages. More than 30 municipalities used a maximum tariff of 2.5%. During the crisis, the land tax increased by about 50 municipalities. I ask you again, why do you think you shouldn't pay for luxury? Why do you think that Nõmme's luxurious real estate or the possession of an expensive home around Tartu would have to be paid by other residents of apartment buildings in many ways? They don't get that much compensation for their little surface. Why are you in favour of such a socialist move?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U18	Please look at the pensioners sitting on this balcony tonight. They too own houses like this, luxury users. They built their luxuries with their hands 30 to 40, and some maybe 60 years ago. In the case of this luxury, the Tallinn City Government has in some cases spent not one cent in the last 50 years to make the luxury even bigger. Just as this house was without the city's plumbing and sewerage, so it is now. Just like that street in front of this house was without asphalt, so it is now. Only land tax has become more luxurious, and these people have the great pleasure of paying a higher tax on land simply because the city has spread out into the distance and their own decision to build a house in Nõmme or Pirita has now brought too much tax burden. I would like to ask the good questioner: what should these people do? Do they have to leave their home created with their hands simply because the city of Tallinn will drive them out of their homes with a very high land tax? A little empathy for the middle party!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request. If you ask questions to the Minister or Prime Minister, please also listen to the answer, although you may not like it. It's kind of a courtesy. I would now like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Eldar Efendiev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! When you answered, you said there should be compensation, but when we discussed this issue last week, the initiators of the draft said that the state was not obliged to pay this compensation. And here's the question: can this compensation mechanism really appear? And if it does, when? And should it be a one-time action or a long-term one? No one from the initiators responded to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U21	Those who said that the country had no obligation to do so were telling the truth. There is no commitment, but the coalition has decided to make this commitment to the State. Once again, I believe that the fairest way of compensating is to do this by increasing the rate of income tax: the 16,6 million euros that local authorities are missing due to the exemption from the tax on their land under their home country must be recovered by increasing the share of personal income tax. At the current level of GDP, this would mean that instead of 11.4% local authorities would receive 11,724% of personal income tax. That would be a fair compensation. We should certainly not punish those local authorities who have already abolished the tax on their land. And we certainly should not reward the local government, for example, which has cashed 20000, 30000 kroons or 50000 kroons of land tax per year from the inhabitants of Tallinn. If we were to compensate for this land tax of $50,000 or even $20,000, then we would admit that it was fair and that the state will now assume that obligation. We're not going to do that. But in the coalition, there is an agreement that the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the EUR 16.6 million that the state has left out of the state budget will compensate the local authorities. Let us also say that there is a clear correlation between personal income tax and land tax, which is a very fair way of compensating, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U22	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U23	The next question is from my colleague, Neeme the Great, to the Minister of Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U24	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Regional Affairs! According to the Coalition Agreement and the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, the Estonian population will be given the opportunity to register two permanent residences as of the end of 2012. At the same time, an important part of a person's relationship with the country or local authorities is related to the registered office. At the moment, the Riigikogu is in the process of abolishing the tax on homeland and this is also directly related to the place of residence of the population. Is it possible that if one member of the family receives land tax exemption from two rural units, the other member of the family may receive two more? In this case, how are the two objectives of allowing people to register several official residences and losing the tax on the land they own compatible with each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U25	Mr. Big! At present, the Population Register Act states that if a person uses several residences to reside, he/she will provide one of his/her residence addresses for inclusion in the Population Register of his/her choice. However, a person can also provide communication information, i.e. the address where he or she resides in part of his or her time, on the form of the residence notification. For example, if I ask you if you spend most of your time in your registered place of residence, I fear you will have to say no. In fact, there is still an opportunity in the population register to write down your other place of residence when a person uses it. Then the country will have a chance to contact him in any case. In the Coalition Agreement, this possibility to register another place of residence is actually written down. We do not have it in detail, this bill does not yet exist, but the most logical thing is that in this case, many people will simply have another address that can be used in the same way as the current address. At the same time, all legislation that currently regulates either services or any benefits-benefits according to place of residence should continue to apply at first speed to its first place of residence. That's my personal understanding. It hasn't been discussed in the government, but that's my understanding. The relevant ministries should indicate whether or not they wish to extend these services or benefits to another place of residence. I think that would be the most logical way to start using another communication address.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U26	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U27	Thank you. Under the law currently in force, a person has the right to designate a space that is not a dwelling as his place of residence. The address of the place of residence is also determined with the precision of the municipality. How could a land tax exemption in such situations be realised if a person has registered his or her residence as a non-housing dwelling or if his or her address is determined with the precision of the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U28	This question must be answered by the bill that you are dealing with this week in the Riigikogu on Thursday, if I am not mistaken. As regards persons whose place of residence is registered with the accuracy of the municipality, the Population Register Act states that if the address of a person who is permanently resident in the territory of the municipality is not entered in the population register, the competent authority of the municipality must initiate the registration of the address of residence in the population register. So it can also take place on the initiative of the local government. But when we are talking about the abolition of the tax on homeland, I do not see any huge problems here that are being sucked out in relation to many homes. In general, Estonian people have one residence. There have also been statements in this Chamber that different family members will be registered in different places of residence. I would point out that if this is to be done, then the owner must also be changed. And the change of owner is related to costs, is linked to state fees, the state receives revenue from it. It may not be as useful when speculation has been made in this Chamber. In addition, I will say one more thing: our Penal Code provides that when it is committed to obtaining an official document or other benefit or gain, a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to 1 year is punishable. So this opportunity, too, is provided for in our laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U29	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U30	Thank you. Do we know how many people currently in the population register who have registered their residence as non-residential or who are listed in the register with the accuracy of the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U31	I owe you an answer right now. This number is over 10,000, as far as I know, but I can't quite tell you. It has been under discussion that if the building is under construction in the sense that the building has not been finally adopted, could people be registered as residents of the building. According to the law, we have taken the view that if a person actually lives at this address, he should also be able to register it as his place of residence. After all, the interest of the country is to know where a person really lives. And he can also live in a house where, for example, the kitchen and bedroom are built, but the rest of the building is being built and the building has not yet been registered as a ready-made home. But we'd rather be interested in knowing where the person is. That's why we've been based on the fact that if there's a real place to live, we're gonna register it as a place to live. However, I stress that according to the law, the local government has the possibility to refuse to register the address of the place of residence in accordance with the notification if the person has made false statements in the residence statement. Local authorities have the possibility to check this out. It is also known that someone wants to register for an address, but it turns out that there is no house or there is an uninhabitable cottage. The municipality has the full right to refuse to register the place of residence in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U32	Ladies and gentlemen, As time moves quickly, I promise three more issues registered on the ground. Let's start with my colleague Jaan Apple Tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U33	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that it is not easy for you right now to answer questions concerning two residences, the finances of local governments, decisions, etc. This bill, as you said, does not exist physically. As you pointed out by conveying your own personal opinion, this so-called first place of residence is still, in fact, a prevalent one. But I would also like to link the subject of this residence registration to the draft that will be discussed tomorrow in this context, which the Prime Minister has just explained to us. We are talking about this 16,6 million euros, which should compensate municipalities for their personal income tax, but in fact, in my opinion, larger cities are more profitable than...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U34	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U35	The question is this: have you discussed the size of a possible fine-tuning fund? Is that a coalition deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, the time to ask a question is one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U37	I agree with the Prime Minister's view that the tax on individual incomes is rather well correlated with the price of land in a particular municipality. Of course, the exact fine-tuning process cannot be completed in this regard. But I also think that increasing the share of personal income tax is the most logical compensation mechanism. If we look at local governments where, in absolute terms, land tax receipts are higher, then in these municipalities, the amount received as a percentage of income tax is higher, so it is quite well covered. I think that personal income tax is a good and natural form of income for local government. I have also repeatedly emphasised in this Chamber that I believe that this share of personal income tax should be gradually increased again, in line with the possibilities. We haven't had that chance so far. I hope that we will take a step forward in the next budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U38	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question that actually requires more hearing your personal opinion. I, too, am in favour of thinking that a person could have two official addresses in the population register. Like one place he works and the other place he lives. But here's the question. What is your position: if the two municipalities in which the person is registered have to guarantee him and his family members, such as children, various social services and guarantees, would in the future, if the person's income tax were to be paid into two municipalities, both of them would have to guarantee them in full, or would they in any way correspond to the share of income tax he pays?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U40	I can really take my own personal perspective in replying, because the government has not shaped its final position. First of all, we have decided with the ministers that we, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will try to get a proper overview of how income tax is distributed. In fact, we can compare the data on where people work according to the information provided by the tax administration with the data on their place of residence. That's the statistics we can do. As far as your question is concerned, I think we need to consider it very thoroughly by sector. Some services are still very expensive for the municipality. For example, a problem may arise because a person has designated a small island in Estonia as his/her place of residence and if he/she wishes to put a child to a school in Tallinn, this is a huge financial burden on that small island. In this case, these proportions really have to be taken into account. If the draft in question was approved in the Riigikogu one day, the amount of income tax that would be received in the future would perhaps be disproportionately small compared to the cost that should be incurred, for example, to provide school education. Then you can't go this way in a sudden way, that you definitely have to offer this service. That is why I propose the option of guaranteeing certain service benefits in the first place of residence and then sectorally weighing up services, which are also guaranteed in the second place of residence.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U41	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U42	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue on the final question. As you mentioned, the existence of residents is not only a privilege in the area, that is to say, obligations. More and more small rural municipalities have heard that if there are fewer magymnasiums, the inhabitants of the rural municipalities send their children to the larger centres of schools. This entails the obligation for small municipalities to offset for their studies with a municipality with upper secondary school and, in some cases, lower secondary school. You mentioned that two dwellings are justified, for example, if the child is studying somewhere else. Do you think it would be preferable for a child who goes to school in another municipality to register to live there and the netting will then disappear? Have you discussed this with the Minister of Education?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U43	The direct answer is that I have not yet had time to discuss this issue with the Minister of Education. However, if you look more broadly at the problem of municipalities, i.e. whether to have their own upper secondary school, primary school or primary school, their decisions are rational in the sense that they are generally based on funding. If you want to go to your school and the money goes on, that's what you do. And when the school, such as upper secondary school, is stopped, it is therefore financially more useful to send children to another municipal school. We have municipalities who don't have their own school at all. Consequently, they have found that this is more rational in their view. On the one hand, children will be educated cheaper, on the other hand, municipalities have certainly considered the quality of education, which is very important. However, if children are to receive better quality education if they act together, it is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U44	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U45	The next question is for my colleague, Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, the Minister of Agriculture, to Mrs Tuksole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! Food prices have risen at a very rapid pace and we have had a very pleasant discussion with you in this Chamber recently. In 2009, the government raised VAT from 18% to 20%, and it was estimated that this meant an additional 400 million Estonian kroons for food products. If you have another number, I'm grateful to let you know. I would like to ask you: can you tell us what the agricultural sector, the food industry or the consumer has won on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U47	Thank you for your question. The reasons for the rapid rise in prices, in particular food prices, are more general and we have been talking to you for a long time on these issues. I don't think there's any point in repeating it here. But it's only one half of the trouble or problem. In fact, prices are also expensive for the people of Estonia because our purchasing power is small. The government and the Ministry of Agriculture have, above all, tried to mitigate these causes. This means increasing the competitiveness of the agricultural sector through various investment and other business support, raising people's living standards through job creation and wage growth. If we compare purchasing power and prices, the purchasing power of the people in Estonia is about 60% or slightly above the European Union average, but the food price level is 80%. This is a real problem: not high price levels, but relatively low purchasing power. Above all, we should deal with this. It is not possible to slow down price increases or to regulate prices at national level. This will not be done anywhere in the European Union, and it will certainly not be done in Estonia either. In fact, there is no correlation in the European Union between the amount of VAT on foodstuffs and the prices of foodstuffs. It is not the case that where VAT is low, there are also low prices, and vice versa. In fact, this correlation is quite the opposite. In countries with lower VAT on food products, overall, food products tend to be more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U48	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U49	Thank you very much. Good colleague! You call a problem with a little purchasing power that I agree with. However, you have also stressed in your replies that you are more in favour of targeted support. Do you intend to do something in the near future that will help to ease the rise in food prices? Of course, the income of an Estonian person is very low, but the government wants to get rich very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U50	Yes, I think that it is much better to collect taxes on a flat-rate basis, it is simple, understandable, transparent and fair, and then, through the revenue received, to support those target groups and people who actually need help on a need-based basis. This is a much cheaper way to help both the farmer and the consumer. If we provide everyone with the same benefit in the form of a tax credit, we do not really know how this benefit is distributed between the farmer, the processing industry, the wholesale trade and retail trade. And probably the biggest winners are not a farmer or a consumer, but, on the contrary, the middle chain links in this chain. This has been demonstrated by the experience of other countries. So it really makes sense to raise this money and then support those in need. Do we have any specific new measures in the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture? Yes, we have been thinking about this, and in the new rural development plan, the development of which has begun, we certainly have this aspect in mind. A thorough ex-ante analysis of the whole chain of real revenue distributions, how the margin is distributed, and then decisions must be taken and the most equitable and effective means of designing and implementing. Once again, I say that the experience of the countries of the European Union in which these preferences have been granted confirms that the VAT benefit for food has not helped the consumer or the farmer to the expected extent, and rather is considering abandoning it. Finland has introduced and abolished the arrangements for this benefit, but look, there have been significant VAT concessions, but Finnish food products are among the most expensive in the European Union. And there are more examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U51	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U52	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, There has been repeated talk of punishment in this Chamber today. Our consumer has indeed been punished at their high prices. However, you have not given any concrete example of what the government would propose to alleviate the cost-effectiveness of food products. Perhaps you will still produce a very specific example.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U53	Specific examples have been given to you. The entire rural development plan and subsidies are specifically aimed at improving the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and at enabling consumers to buy food at affordable prices. Through the Ministry of Agriculture, various subsidies to agriculture and the entire rural sector are paid around EEK 4 billion per year, when speaking in kroons. And we have over 80 different measures that we are implementing. The limited response time does not allow them all to read out and describe how they actually affect both the buying-in prices of agricultural products and, ultimately, consumer prices, but this impact is entirely there. If you have a more thorough interest, we can give you all this material in writing, there is a detailed description of all these measures in volumes and effects. Today's two-minute response time certainly does not allow such an overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U54	Ladies and gentlemen, Time moves quickly, I promise to ask only two locally registered questions. First of all, my colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Very honourable Minister! I want to ask you this question. It is well known that 20 to 25% of Estonian children live in poverty. And now imagine a situation where the mother tells the child that there is no bread today because there is a high price level. Tomorrow, he's gonna tell the kid there's no bread today because he's got a little buying power. Can you explain to me what the difference in the eyes of ordinary citizens is between low purchasing power and high price levels?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U56	I guess there's a lot of connections. First of all, in Estonia, food prices have indeed increased faster than in the European Union on average over the last year. But we must also consider here that Estonia's economy and future forecasts also show faster growth than in the European Union on average. In general, there is a link that, if the economy grows faster, prices will rise faster, with inflation as well. So this in itself is a normal process, with a lot of influence and factors behind it. But you asked about the children and the prices. However, I say that we cannot impose national administrative prices. These simple solutions have not been established anywhere. Indirectly, one way to help people cope better is to reduce the tax burden, for example, the same land tax. We leave this money in the hands of these families, and they'll get a richer table for it. This, too, is an indirect measure that helps to combat high food prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U57	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U58	Minister of Agriculture! I am simply saying in a reply that a lot of families living in apartments who are hard to cope with still do not pay land tax because they live on surfaces with a land tax of less than five euros. But my question is the same as Peter Võsalgi. You consider the high price level to be normal, it is normal that Estonia has the highest price increase in the euro zone and that it continues. At the same time, do you also consider it normal that the incomes of Estonian people are repeatedly lower than in our neighbouring country, Finland, but food prices have already reached the same level? Do you think this is normal and this is how it should continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U59	First of all, I would like to make it clear that in Estonia, food prices are around 80% of the European Union average, and the Finnish price level is 120%. When it comes to the relationship between VAT and food prices, in countries with high VAT levels, food prices are generally below average, which clearly shows that the reasons are elsewhere. In Estonia, VAT is 20%, food prices are 80% compared to the European Union average. Here we take good examples: Bulgaria, full tax 20%, average food price 68%; Hungary, 25% food VAT, food price level 79%; Lithuania, full VAT 21%, average food price 74% of the EU average; Romania, 24% VAT in full, prices 66% of the EU average. And we will now take the so-called preferential VAT countries: Ireland, for some goods, VAT zero, for some goods 4% or 10%, price level 129% compared to the EU average; Austria, 10% or half of VAT, price level 116%, etc. The reasons are clearly elsewhere and, in fact, the price increase gives the Estonian farmer the opportunity to sell food at very favourable prices for export, which is one of the reasons for the price increase. At the same time, it also makes it possible to pay better wages and raise living standards in this way. In any case, the development of entrepreneurship and the possibility of exporting goods, including food, means reviving the Estonian economy and is right in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U60	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U61	Next is Mr Pikhof's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U62	Prime Minister! Estonia, like other European countries, is a country with an ageing population. Unfortunately, older people in Estonia have more chronic and long-term health problems than their peers in countries with a higher standard of living in Europe. However, health problems affect people's needs for care. Estonia's expenditure on health care and welfare is among the lowest in the European Union compared to our GDP. We have an elderly person or someone close to him to pay for care costs of almost 65%, whereas, for example, a Finnish pensioner's own share in paying for a nursing home is only 8%. Often we do not have a small income for children to help our mother or father pay this share. As Prime Minister, do you consider it normal that even almost two pensions are not enough to get into the cheapest nursing home?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U63	No, I don't think that's normal. I want to be among the first five wealthiest, and a more modest place doesn't satisfy me. Unfortunately, it does not depend on the will of one person alone. There is no point in denying history and there is no point in ignoring the 50-year period that has put us in a position where we were 20 years ago, for example, compared to Finland. In the last 20 years, however, developments have been very significant. When speaking about care, it should be borne in mind that there has been a significant increase in welfare institutions in Estonia over the last 20 years and that there are considerably more beds in these institutions. For example, in 1993 there were 4021 adult care centres, and now it's together with special care facilities, there are 10151. It should be borne in mind that our population has been declining all these years, but there are 2.5 times as many welfare places. I guess we're moving towards wealthy countries all the time. And we're moving that way with our welfare system. I do not agree with your statement that the expenditure on social welfare in Estonia is the lowest in the European Union. That's not true! In Estonia, social welfare expenditure increased particularly rapidly during the crisis. If, at the beginning of the last decade and in the first half of the decade, we spent 12 to 13% of GDP on social welfare, then now it is already 20% of GDP, which is a perfectly normal level.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U64	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U65	Thank you. Actually, I didn't ask for statistics on the increase in the number of nursing homes. I know that there have been more, but people just often do not have the opportunity to use this service. That's what this is about! The OECD report shows that the long-term care system in Estonia is based on the interests of the service provider and not the person. In such a system, money does not move with a person, but moves to where the service is funded. Such funding creates a situation where a person does not receive the service that he or she needs, but receives the service that happens to exist, or does not receive any assistance at all. Can the government coalition prevent such a pointless waste of money? I am thinking of a situation where a person is provided with a service that he does not really need, or worse, he is left without any help at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U66	How does it happen that often when you ask, I cannot accept your questioning?! Under no circumstances can I agree with your claim that services are provided in Estonia that people do not need, and services that people need, they, see, the state does not do for spite! Still needed to be more involved with the real life. In this way, you could make sure that social welfare money is spent in Estonia much more effectively than in the European Union as an average. You don't want to hear statistics, but all of us are talking, you too, about a knowledge society, and a knowledge society without statistics is nonsense. Therefore, knowledge must also be derived from Statistics Estonia and statistical data confirm that the share of people living in relative poverty in Estonia would be several times higher without social transfers. It is precisely our effective social welfare system that has led us to have people living in relative poverty at the European Union's average level.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U67	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U68	Thank you. In fact, I was talking about the fact that some people do not receive the service they need, and that is because there is not enough cooperation between local authorities. As we move on from here, the elderly attach great importance to living in their own home, among the things they love, for as long as possible. And when a person is no longer able to cope, it is very important to get help in the form of various first-level services such as transport, catering, home care, and home care. The provision of services should be based on an assessment of individual needs. At the same time, the quality of services varies widely between municipalities. When do we get to the point where, wherever a person lives, the services are available to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U69	In order to respond, both the availability of the service and the service themselves should be defined. And obviously, this final happiness will never always come; it will always be possible to make a more high-quality service even more accessible than it is at some point in time. In the context of the topic of the elderly, I want to thank the Riigikogu right now. After all, the exemption from the tax on the land under domestic law relates to the land, the buildings from which part of the rental income is obtained. We know from the experience of the rest of the world that in a large number of university cities, old couples who already have children moving from home to independent lives provide accommodation services for students. This allows these old couples to stay in their homes for much longer than would be possible without their tenants. What is the reason why, as the current Land Tax Act prescribes, we should, at all costs, punish those who have taken a tenant? At the same time, I believe that after a while Estonia will be heading for the same paths as Canada and Australia, for example, decades ago. Old people, when they start to become so powerless that they can't manage their lives on their own, think early about where they can live in the future. In Finland, too, a number of terraced houses have been adapted to older people and, if you look at the street, you can't tell the difference between a normal house and a home like this...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U70	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U71	...but there's maintenance on the yard roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U72	I would like to ask you now probably the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U73	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! My question calls for thought. I don't think there's one answer to that, but I'll ask you anyway. There is no doubt that public welfare plays a very important role in society, but over the centuries Estonia has had a very good tradition that its family cares for its parents. Why is it often that young good families forget their old ones and expect the state to do everything in advance and in the back? In this Chamber too, the old issue is often asked with such an undertone that the state must assume this responsibility. Why do we have no more of this family responsibility? How can it be increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U74	As far as relations between young and old are concerned, Estonia is certainly not an exception in this respect. There is also a saying in Estonia that the best pension insurance is for children. Mostly, children support their parents in Estonia, but older people are generally proud people and try to cope independently as long as possible. I believe that the same Australian, Canadian and Finnish models will once become dominant in Estonia. If one day a large house cannot be maintained, it will be sold, a room or a small row - house box will be purchased. For example, people living in the village of Estonia, Australia, including Estonians, will then acquire one room. It's their home, there's their stuff, but social care, both in terms of medical service and in terms of normal human care, is paid for by the state and people can spend their old age with dignity. This social welfare system will probably be developed in Estonia over the years, not only by using state resources, but also through private funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U75	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will stop dealing with this issue because the time is up. Thank you very much, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, for asking questions. Thank you for answering the questions to the members of the government. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U76	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act and § 3 of the Social Tax Act. As an inspiration from Res Publical, it was a great temptation to title this draft 'The law establishing a European business environment in Estonia', but we did not. The aim of our draft is to equalise the situation of self-employed persons with regard to sickness benefits with regard to the situation of employed persons. After all, the Health Insurance Fund now pays sickness benefit from the 9th day of sickness, 4.8. until the day, the employer pays the employee the sickness benefit. Someone known to the self-employed to be 4. No sickness benefit is paid until the day, as these as independent entrepreneurs do not have an employer. They still do not have the opportunity to deduct anything additional from their business income to compensate for their illness. The draft provides for the possibility for self-employed persons to deduct from business income the amount calculated on the basis of the personalised social tax of the previous year in order to compensate for the loss of business income due to the disease. In other words, we offer a 'Finnish' solution to the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U78	Thank you. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the board. If it complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. Now I'll give you the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine, initiated on 6 June, the Committee on Social Affairs; second, the Committee on Monetary Affairs. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu " Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund," presented on 7 June, commission of the Finance Committee; thirdly, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Stabilisation Reserve and appointment of new members," presented on 7 June, commission of the Finance Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 89 delegates registered as present, 12 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U79	Yesterday, we were in the middle of discussing Bill No 2 amending the Act on Pre-school Children's Institution, more specifically, asking questions to the first rapporteur. Therefore, I would like to ask my colleague, Mailis Reps, again, that those who did not arrive yesterday can ask him their questions today. Please! No further questions. Thank you very much. I now invite my colleague, Ms Iva, from the Committee on Culture, to present the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U80	Honourable Chairwoman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed bill No 2 at its meeting on 30 May. In addition to the members of the committee, the Deputy Chancellor Kalle Küttt of General and Vocational Education, Ministry of Education and Research, and Indrek Kilk, lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, were invited. On behalf of the initiator, Ms Mailis Reps, Member of the Commission, gave an overview of the content of the draft and this was followed by an in-depth discussion. Previously, the members of the committee had also examined the positions expressed by the Government of the Republic. Mailis Reps justified the initiation of the draft, as well as yesterday in this large hall, and the questions raised were largely answered. What problems did the members of the Commission see when dealing with this draft, and what differences were pointed out in relation to support for food costs in primary schools and upper secondary schools? It was pointed out that in kindergarten, parents have to pay a place fee in addition to food money. The originator noted that they considered it easier to exempt from the charge than to pay food costs. The members of the Commission and the representatives of the Ministry had different experiences in this regard and different information about the municipalities apply different systems. It was pointed out that the kindergarten is much more free in its form than the general education school. Many children do not come to day care or go home early in the morning, and parents have agreed which meals their children eat in kindergarten. And if the child is missing, it is quickly announced to the kindergarten so that you don't have to make unnecessary portions of food. That's what a parent doesn't pay for. In addition to savings, the aim is also to exchange information closely within the group. The debate also pointed out that there are very well-designed systems in the municipalities to support parents. It has been thought out how to help parents who are in need of money either to cover part of the cost of food or to pay a place fee. It would not be right for a country to intervene in this system and to start rethinking it. Local authorities have also drawn attention to this. The Commission, of course, acknowledged that municipalities certainly need general financial support, with a relatively limited revenue base, but expressed serious doubts as to whether the implementation of this draft as a law could ultimately fulfil its objective. The point is that if the state even compensates for the cost of food, the municipality will always be able to increase the place fee and we cannot be very sure that the target set in this case will be one hundred percent met, so that the parent will win. The question also arises as to whether this does not lead to waste and inefficient use of money. The Commission, as I said, recognises the principle that kindergartens and parents must be helped so that all children can get into preschool and receive early childhood education there. That is why we unanimously agreed to leave the draft in the process, but rather to identify positive practices that have been implemented by municipalities and to find other ways of supporting municipalities in early childhood education. During these discussions, the Commission reached the following decisions: to propose that draft No 2 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 7 June 2011, to close the first reading and to set the deadline of 21 June at 16 a.m. for amendments. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U81	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Free school meals in both upper secondary schools and kindergartens are certainly a very important issue. I am pleased that the Commission supported the completion of the first reading and took a positive stance. My question concerns the further processing of the draft. As a representative of the coalition, you should know, or at least have certainly discussed it among yourselves, at what pace this bill will be dealt with. By the end of this term of office, can we still adopt this draft, or will the coalition put it in the drawer, as has been done in previous times?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U83	Thank you for your question. I can say that the coalition has not discussed the pace at which this bill will be dealt with. So you're wrong about that. However, when the Commission discussed this draft in substance, it saw certain risks that could be present in the implementation of the draft in this form. As such, I have already pointed out that this is to identify positive experiences, helping local authorities and finding money to promote early childhood education is a positive idea, but in the Commission neither one party nor the other party found that outright support in the form proposed in the draft could be the best solution. However, the Commission will certainly continue to process the draft, try to find better solutions, and it will probably also receive further notifications from the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U84	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U85	Thank you! Good waitress, what is the amount of money parents have to pay as a payoff?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U86	Wait a minute! As § 27 of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act states, the share of the parents per child covered is up to 20% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic. If converted into euro, it will amount to EUR 55,6. The kroons have an amount of 870 kroons. But if we look in practice, the maximum rate will be used by very few municipalities, as the initiator explained to us yesterday. As a general rule, the place fee ranges from a few euros to a few dozen euros, no more. This is a very big playground for local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U87	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am actually very pleased that this bill, too, has revealed that local authorities are in serious financial difficulties. After all, this bill wishes to alleviate the difficult situation of local authorities in some way. You argued, however, that covering the cost of food in this form in pre-school childcare facilities could lead to inefficient use of money in local governments, perhaps even wasted. Could you be more specific about what you meant by this waste?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U89	The Commission discussed this, but I would point out that the Commission did not come to the conclusion that the municipalities were in serious financial difficulties. We just didn't do that kind of analysis. However, we found that municipalities always need help in all matters relating to children and early childhood education and all these things. As for the waste, concrete examples were given and I briefly touched on them here too. Children do not go to kindergarten every day, we know from experience that the percentage of attendance is very different. That depends on the period. If the child is ill, he or she is not in kindergarten, and if there is a school break for older siblings, then perhaps not. Someone doesn't show up until after breakfast for some reason. If a parent does not have to pay for food, it is quite likely that many will fail to report the absence of a child on one day or another. And that means that food is made more than it really could use. I have seen it myself as a head of local government, and as a parent, this experience is from life itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U90	Indrek Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U91	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You mentioned that the draft is obviously not going to be adopted in this form, as it is still crude and that the Members of the Commission and the representatives of the political groups have different views. Can you name the main drawbacks why the bill does not go in this form? And for what reasons will it then be directed to second reading, even though it is clearly crude and of poor quality in the opinion of very many Members of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U92	First of all, I note: the estimates that the draft is of poor quality and raw are not produced by the Commission. The Commission discussed substantive issues on how it could be better to act in one way or another. We also found positive experiences and good practices in the way local governments have set up a system of support for parents, for example. The reasons why the Commission thought that very substantial and very thorough work should be done on the draft so that it would become an acceptable draft, I have already mentioned it today. But I'm going to go over a few basic reasons again. Since the provision of early childhood education and the delivery of kindergartens is a direct task for the local government, the approval of the draft would increase the interference with the decision-making powers of the local government, which may not be feasible in this form. It has also been pointed out that the municipalities themselves have operational aid systems. Rather, municipalities simply need additional money, not such targeted, labeled money. In the last questions, too, there were indications that it would be better for the local authority, which has direct contact with the residents and the relevant information. Information about the use of food in kindergarten is also more specific there. Why did the Commission think that the draft should remain open? Certainly in view of the noble objective of why the draft has been initiated: to pay attention to the issue of kindergartens and early childhood education and to the fact that there are problems in several municipalities. In fact, we ourselves know that it is not always the case that the problems are greater in those municipalities where there is little money. Rather, it is the priorities of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U93	Reet Roos, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U94	Thank you. Good waitress! This bill created such a loud and anxious debate at the back of this room that I need to clarify my question a little bit. Do many municipalities apply a large place payment? Perhaps you can say an estimate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U95	I understand that the debate has grown so big in the back of the hall that the answer will no longer be said. I have just emphasised that this maximum amount, which is approximately EEK 870 when speaking in kroons, is used by very few rural municipalities around Tallinn. In the remaining more than 200 municipalities, this amount is generally much lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U96	Good fellows! As a result of a good questioner and also a good commentator, I would ask that this debate be conducted throughout the entire Chamber, not in one corner of it. We respect both the waitress and the questioner, as well as those who wish to take part in the debate on the draft. Let's keep going. Lauri Luik, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U97	Thank you. I will pick up where Mr Ironne finished or left off. We had such a great program in the good times as 'Every kid's kindergarten place! '. If times get better again, we will hopefully be able to launch this program again. Do you think there's any way that this program could be linked or linked to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U98	The Commission did not discuss this issue. Of course, we all hope that this grateful programme, which was launched during the previous government coalition, will be revived after the recession has ended. But the Commission did not come to that. Perhaps, in our further discussions, we will come to bringing such good initiatives together, why not?! However, this time the Commission did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U99	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U100	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There was one concern in the Commission, and it has also come out here today, and it has been discussed at the back of the hall, that there is a high place fee. Indeed, if you have to pay 870 Estonian kroons for one kindergarten place, it can be a rather difficult burden for the family if several children go to kindergarten. Since, in the case of compensation for food or partial compensation, EUR 1 50 cents for the majority of children is not the total amount, do you think this could alleviate the situation if we specified the pre-school institution law in such a way that instead of the Government of the Republic's 20% percentage, we would, for example, set 10%?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U101	Thank you for your question. To put it most literally, i.e. if I should reflect what was discussed in the Commission, I would say that we did not reach that point and we did not analyse it. However, we have indeed pointed out the problem mentioned in your question that, if the municipality has imposed a large place payment, this amount is so much higher than the cost of food that it is rather the parent who loses his legs. These are therefore complex issues. If we cover the cost of food for all, even for those who do not really need it, then we may not, but we may! This would lead the municipality to increase the place payment, i.e. what it is entitled to increase. And the parent won't win anything. But my personal opinion is that the local government's relevant decisions should be directed by voters, people who say what must be a municipal or a city power, what decisions should be made there and what should be priorities. If people in local governments feel that this 20% could be very good for them and they are satisfied with it, it is their decision. At present, setting this 10% limit could still be an intervention in the self-determination of municipalities. But it will certainly be one of the topics of discussion in the future, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U102	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did the Commission also discuss the possible correlation between the partial payment of food money and the shortage of day-care centres?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U104	Yes! Perhaps not directly such a correlation, but the practice of how the shortage of kindergarten places has developed, what attendance is and how they are interdependent was discussed. But this very direct correlation wasn't dissected.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U105	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U106	Thank you. Good Commission waitress! As the target group is 5 to 7 years old, I would simply ask as a reminder, did it not occur from the Commission that we do not have data, as many 5 to 7 year olds do not actually have a kindergarten place where they can get pre-school training? Unfortunately, we have parents who do not bring children out of their homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U107	Yes, since the draft is aimed specifically at children only 5 to 7 years of age, this was indeed the subject of a debate. The Commission did not have the conviction that free food would ensure that every child of that age would be brought into kindergarten. In general, the percentage of attending kindergarten in Estonia is very high and there is no certainty that this change would ensure an even higher percentage. At the same time, questions arose in the Commission as to why we are talking about only children aged 5 to 7 years, the initiator's representative, explained this and the younger ones, as we forget. So the questions about children's age were such, but the Commission did not find that the draft provides an important lever for bringing children to kindergarten in the form of outright support.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U108	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I heard from the report that the data on local governments were quite controversial. What is the actual situation? Is there any information that children are not put in kindergarten anywhere or taken away from kindergarten because parents are unable to pay food money or a place tax? Perhaps it is possible to ask the Ministry of Education to clarify what compensation mechanisms exist in different municipalities? At least in the region where I come from, there are very clear compensatory mechanisms, and the municipality pays both for the place and for food, when parents face financial difficulties. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U110	Indeed, this was also brought to the attention of the Commission during its debate. You said the data was contradictory. I would like to clarify this and say that there is also a variety of data on the support mechanisms of local governments. The initiator of the bill said that their party had had meetings that claimed that this was an important problem and that the draft would contribute to children being well fed, well trained in kindergarten and all of them coming there. Other members of the Commission, regardless of their political affiliation, had different experiences. Exactly as you have described: that municipalities have considered support schemes very thoroughly and their experiences, which are supported by rates, are different. Who pays a certain percentage of the place tax who caters. In general, local governments have tried to get so far that these support schemes would combine with other grants. It would be good if such a general picture of support schemes existed. The representative of the Ministry also stressed that once he has met the municipalities, the general request has been rather not to intervene with such very specific support measures in their decision-making powers. Of course, no one has anything against the extra money, but such a very specific support measure confuses their system a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U111	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Eldar Efendiev, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U112	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, those who consider the problem to be small or not important are even less today than last week. But I am still trying to argue once again why it is necessary to support the provision of hot food for kindergarten children. Poverty is also known to be a negative aspect of our society. Statistics talk about it and journalists write about it, less talk about it by politicians because the subject is uncomfortable. But it is known that our elderly and young families with children live in poverty or on the poverty line. Unemployment and high prices in this area we are among the leaders in the European Union, and poverty as well. But what about kindergartens? I'm gonna try to get the pain points out by group again. First, parents who have lost their job and are unable to find a new place quickly take their children home from kindergarten because they do not have enough money to pay for the place and catering. One small example from Ida-Viru County. Kreenholm was shut down, people lost their jobs, and after a while, they took their children home from kindergartens. There were dozens and dozens. We take statistics: officially unemployment is 15% in Ida-Virumaa, actually close to 20%. There are nearly 40% of the pensioners. There's a lot of trouble finding a job, it looks like a very remote perspective, but the kids are living right now. Second, parents put their children in kindergarten, but they give up catering during breakfast or dinner or breakfast and dinner and only leave lunch. There's just no money. Third, there are parents who take their children to kindergarten only for hours. No breakfast, no lunch or dinner in kindergarten. This is particularly the case in families where parents work abroad and children are left to the elderly. Fourthly, a lot of kids don't go to kindergarten at all. Fifthly, there has also been a situation where parents, although this is an exception, have already been registered and can be said to be a weak tendency to have a child in kindergarten at the end of the month, do as a break at the end of the month and not pay for the previous month. There is a problem with accounting in the child care establishment. There is evidence that this has already happened in some kindergartens in Narva, for example. It is very good to have some social assistance in this situation, but the problem remains a problem. Go on. In kindergartens, competitions and various studies have recently been organised to better cater children. But I'm not talking about vitamin breaks and good food baskets. I'm not talking about some kids having allergies and they need special treatment for that either. I am only talking about standard foods that are not available to some children. I am not going to talk about local governments, because the Commission reflected this issue quite well. The next problem: quite a large number of children who should attend prep school do not go there and become weak in the first grade. And another problem. Recently, children's groups have emerged at shops, asking for money to buy food. It's the truth. Among these boys and girls are children of kindergarten age. Since childhood, such children are the most recent of their social status and are also in very bad health. The Centre Party will come up with this initiative for the second time. Last time, the contrast argument was that only those who are in a bad situation need help. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U113	How much time do you want? Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U114	It was a different time, it was before the crisis. But it is now understandable that the problem concerns quite a large part of society. The serious situation can be confirmed by another example. On 1 June there was an action organised by the Food Bank and Prisma Shopping Chain. The aim was to pay attention to the children of poor families. There were 600 sets of food, all in Narva. And all these sets were with an address. Every person has value in society, especially every child, because children are our future. We have before us a draft that requires us to decide whether we are willing to invest in the future. I am very pleased that the coalition found an opportunity to deal with this draft together with the opposition and to discuss these principles in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U115	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of Bill No 2 should be terminated. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 21 June. The first reading is closed and the first item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U116	We will move on to the second item, which is the first reading of draft Act No 7 on State Liability, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Please present a speech chair for Riigikogu member Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Paragraph 25 of our Constitution states that any person is entitled to compensation for damage caused to him or her unlawfully, whether moral or material. And that is, even if the damage is caused by the state. The legal regulation of state liability, which has been in force for about ten years, has revealed a number of shortcomings. In particular, they have been linked to compensation for damages caused in criminal proceedings. The problem was already up during the previous Riigikogu and then the relevant draft law was also initiated, but due to the exhaustion of the mandate of the previous Riigikogu, this bill fell out. Today's re-initiated draft aims to remedy the problems and shortcomings that have arisen in this area. The draft establishes a three-way division of state liability requirements instead of the two so far: first, primary remedies, second, the elimination of unlawful consequences and third, compensation for damages. It is therefore envisaged to extend the range of State liability requirements to the removal of the unlawful consequences of an administrative act or act as an independent State liability requirement. The preparation of the bill had already more or less been completed when two very important decisions concerning this area came from the Supreme Court. These are Oleg Osmjorkini and Vaike Fair's complaints, which were specifically linked to compensation for the damage caused by the State. This made it necessary to make important improvements to the draft, which is currently being prepared by the Ministry of Justice. Experts and relevant institutions have given their opinions on the draft. I hereby appoint the barrister, the Tartu Circuit Court and the councillors of the Supreme Court. These changes, which are based on the Supreme Court's decisions, are of the kind that the draft is likely to require substantial improvement. We in the Commission decided that these things need to be done and, in order not to allow time to be lost, we come up with a proposal to finish the first reading. We intend that the draft will enter into force, together with the Code of Administrative Procedure, as a new State Liability Act on 1 January 2012. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U118	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? I see at least one question. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U119	Thank you. My question is about § 18. Many thanks to the initiators of the bill! I understand that you are working with the Government of the Republic on this draft and I have no complaints in this regard. However, at first reading of paragraph 1 of that section, I had the impression that in the case of psychiatric hospital, involuntary hospital care, placement in a care establishment or other detention, the person would be entitled to compensation only in two cases. In one case, when a person has decided to release, but it has not been done, and in another case, when the rules of procedure have been infringed. However, it is clear from the explanatory memorandum to the draft act that there may be other forms of unjustified restriction of rights. As the initiator of the draft, are you willing to make § 18 (1) in cooperation with the Commission, for reasons of legal clarity, so that everyone can unambiguously understand that there are several things to do here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U120	If a wise person had such doubts when he read this text, then other people may also have doubts, and I agree with that. If the text can be improved, why not? There is indeed a slight contradiction between the explanatory memorandum and the draft text. We will make a note of this and we will try to correct it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U121	Question two, Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U122	It's the principle. However, if this is an unjustified activity, an unwarranted crossing of a person's will, a person should in principle have the right to claim compensation for damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U123	Without a doubt, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U124	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Peep Aru, Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, will present this speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed in our committee a draft law on state liability initiated by two political parties at the meeting on 30 May. We also called on specialists from the Ministry of Justice to dissect the matter, namely Katariina Kärsten, adviser to the Public Law Service, and Astrid Assi and Head of the Penal Law and Procedure Service, and Tanel Kalmeti, adviser to the same department. The previous speaker spoke quite accurately about the content of the draft and the history of its proceedings, and a little about what considerations the Commission had in mind. However, I will be very brief about the constructive approach that has been achieved in the Commission, including how the future debate on the draft could take place. As has already been said, this bill was already on the tables of the previous Riigikogu, but it ended its work and it fell out of the procedure. However, the Estonian Bar Association, the councillors of the Supreme Court and the Tartu Circuit Court had expressed their views on the draft. The Government of the Republic has also taken a position on the draft currently under discussion. The Government of the Republic supports the processing of this draft, but draws attention to the same fact that has already been mentioned here: that there are two Supreme Court decisions and quite important clarifications should be made to the text of the existing draft on the basis of these decisions. In these circumstances, the Commission completed its analysis and took the following decisions. Firstly, to propose a draft for reading in this large hall on 7 June, i.e. yesterday it passed smoothly on to today, but it was empty because. Secondly, to conclude the first reading and, thirdly, to propose that the deadline for the receipt of amendments be quite long: 30 September at 4.45 p.m. The Commission's opinion was also that, after we, on the basis of the amendments, of which the main part will certainly come together with the assistance of the Ministry of Justice, will certainly be asking for further expertise. They could be done before coming back to this hall, and the second reading could go smoothly. That was the Commission's position. Please stop first reading! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U126	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Väino Linde, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group supports the proper processing of this draft in the Riigikogu. As the previous speakers pointed out here, according to § 25 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to compensation for moral and material damage caused unlawfully by anyone. This is a 'fundamental right of compensation'. Paragraph 14 of the Constitution states that the legislator is also obliged to actually guarantee the fundamental right to compensation. But not only. In the rule of law, and this is undoubtedly the responsibility of the public authority for the damage it causes is quite different from the responsibility of private law for it. Issues relating to State liability need to be regulated more specifically, because they are different from those of the public authorities, and so are issues arising from the assessment of legality and illegality which differ from those of the private law. In the case of this draft, it is not only a question of compensation for damage caused to a person in certain specific cases, but also of how those in public service do their work in the service of the public authority, how they view their tasks. Our group, of course, knows that this draft was already in the process during the previous Riigikogu and that the assessments made by the various institutions were, to put it mildly, rather critical. They were not critical of the principle of the draft, but they were not critical of the interpretation of certain passages, and some passages were perhaps not based on the principle that a person should be as easy as possible to defend his or her rights against the state. We know that the Ministry of Justice has now also admitted that this bill needs to be supplemented and that some of its provisions need to be re-evaluated on the basis of the Supreme Court's latest decisions. At the same time, it is justified that we base our activities on the text of the existing draft law that existed during the previous Riigikogu. This is what we can begin to improve and improve together, and this is what we all do here in the Riigikogu. And from this point of view, as I said, our group in any case calls for this draft to be dealt with constructively in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U128	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to the Riigikogu that the first reading of Bill No 7 be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 30 September. 4.45 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U129	We will go to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of the Riigikogu member Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This is a draft Act amending § 48 of the Income Tax Act, which directs higher productivity and promotes people's living and wages. The draft itself is under the attention of the Riigikogu for the ninth and not the tenth time. Its point is relatively simple. Our laws distinguish between three types of training: professional training, if someone attends the courses that are needed in his/her profession; level training, which ends with an accreditation, diploma or paper that you have completed this training; free education, which anyone can do on the basis of their heart's desire. The current corporate tax regime allows employers to spend their employees on professional training in a way that is not taxed by a special preferential tax, but does not allow the same costs to be incurred when a person is studying somewhere in a school where his/her studies end up with a certificate of education, i.e. he/she is a level of education. The content of our draft has always been one over the years: it does not make sense for businesses to be punished in this way. During these years, certain progress has been made. In fact, there is also a draft of the Government of the Republic on this subject on your desk. This bill is quite different than we're offering. But the government must be commended that it has found this direction in our draft tabled several times and considered it reasonable. The government really needs to be commended for that. In my introduction to the draft, the content of the draft is simple, and I am talking about what has been accused of this bill or what are the differences between the draft government and our draft, and what are, in our opinion, the errors of the draft government. The biggest accusation ever made on this bill is simple. In this form, the payout of level training becomes some sort of special type of payout. I have been convinced of one thing for several years: the fact that you go to university and your employer pays for it cannot be boiled, cannot be fried, cannot be leased, can not even buy a bus ticket. The claim that this is a hidden form of pay is, in my opinion, absurd. If you really think so, it must be said that it can actually be charged with the draft of the Government of the Republic, there is no difference here. We believe that Estonian employers are rational about their wallets, or if the owners have hired them as employers, they will do the same, i.e. they will not spend the company's money on something that the company does not need. I have repeatedly wondered when such a thing could be possible, listening to this criticism. Maybe in a forest matter, something like that I can imagine, and then I wouldn't consider it a sin. But in fact, they're watching and raking all their costs very accurately, they're not going to spend any extra money. Why would they do that? There's no reason. The legislative complement of the Government of the Republic is a little more critical of employers and perhaps rightly so. But in the form that it has been proposed, it is clearly, in my view, an excessive restriction. In fact, it is not possible to properly read from the text of the law what is meant by the fact that the costs incurred by the employer for the level training of employees, free of special tax, must be direct. This is probably the case: a contract of employment is concluded with a person who is hired, which states that the employer will, for example, undertake to pay the costs of studies at a higher education institution and, later on, after the person has graduated from school, he or she will definitely have to take up this job. Otherwise, it would not be the direct costs that would have to be incurred to train this staff member. This approach is, in my opinion, restrictive and pointless. I can imagine very well the situation that my colleague Lukas put forward last week: a person is learning the language he needs at work. I also imagine that the employer is hiring a person, without concluding a fixed-term contract, but because it is not clear how well the person is going to study, it is agreed that the employee will pay for his own training costs, but the employer will pay for the bank loan, its interest or something like that. The government bill doesn't foresee such an opportunity in any way. The biggest difference between us and the government is that we believe in the clear minds of Estonian employers more than the Government of the Republic does. There's another difference. This relates to the extent to which the draft has an impact on the state's revenue and expenditure. These data, which are in the draft explanatory memorandum, are taken from the declaration submitted by Estonian entrepreneurs to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. According to these declarations, Estonian employers spent 29 million kroons in 2008, 20 million kroons in 2009 and 17 million kroons in 2010. Unfortunately, the declaration does not allow for a break-up, how much it was spent on level training and how much it was on non-formal education. This is why we have brought here a thinny, which shows that if all of this had been a level training, the income of the Estonian state would have decreased by 454000 euros due to the reduction in social tax receipts and 289000 euros due to the reduction in income tax receipts. The extent to which such a legislative amendment would increase both income tax and social tax receipts by making people work smarter and receive a higher salary, we did not evaluate in this draft. The draft of the Government of the Republic has always been based on some other indicators, which could be summarised or introductory in this way: that if..., then..., and there have been forecasts. A few years ago, it was even found that Estonian employers are willing to pay for all the training costs that Estonian people are currently paying from their own pockets. In my opinion, this is not a very likely option, and I do not want to believe in any way that such a thing will happen. However, even in this case, it is not right to state that the state is going to lose some part of its income, because at the moment the employer is not spending these costs, for the simple reason that if he puts EUR 10000 in it, he will have to give another EUR 5300 to the state. He does not have any need for it and therefore does not have any expense. That is, in short, everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U131	Thank you! You have questions. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is expected that the draft sent to this hall by the Government of the Republic will soon become a law. How much do you need to change your bill in this regard if you're going to put it into practice for about the tenth time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U133	We have already tabled an amendment to the draft Government of the Republic, still wanting it to work. I would say that what we have put forward there is, in some way, a synthesis of the government's proposal and our proposal. We were based on a good wish, and we hope that it will be understood. I really do not think that there is any sense in us to raise more questions than answers when it comes to the taxation of level training. Why am I saying this? I speak from experience. Even in the case of professional training, where there should be no major doubt about what it is and whether or not it is a special advantage, there have been situations in practice where, for example, the training has been delayed for six months because the tax administration and the employer have had a different view as to whether or not the special preferential tax should be paid. Whatever to deny sin here, I've had to wave my hands and feet at least once and say it's a pure professional thing, there can't be any special advantage here. So I think that part of the government bill might be left out. However, I must frankly admit that the Government's draft may say better what is not in our draft and what could be written down, namely that it must be clearly an employment relationship, it must not be any other debt-law contract. In this respect, the government bill is even better. But we've always been driven by the fact that the company's money isn't gonna blow over. If Jürgen Ligi's afraid he's going to be, then, well, let it be said that he's going to have a job relationship.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U134	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said that the level training cannot be fried or boiled, and that is why it is not a value to compensate the employee for his contribution to the work. In the opinion of the Socialists, is nothing that is not born to eat a value that an entrepreneur can support an employee?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U136	I'm afraid you misunderstood me. I'm not surprised. What the hell. What has this bill been resented? It's been resented that it's like replacing pay. For a salary, an employee buys what to cook and roast. In my opinion, this bill does not replace the salary, but gives the employer the opportunity to offer a higher-paid job and an employee the opportunity to get a job for which he is paid more. In this sense, if the employer pays for the costs of studying in an institution of higher education, it is certainly not the salary that should be treated in this way. In my opinion, this is a criticism of this draft or a rude mistake of the whole concept. It cannot be regarded as a salary. A person does not accept that he or she is paid for the training costs as a salary. It doesn't make his other life cheaper. It is all forward-looking and provides opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U137	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U138	I still think that if a person acquires higher education at the expense of an entrepreneur through level training, he or she will be paid more in the future. Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U139	That's all I've been saying here for ten minutes and nothing else.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U140	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Finance Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U141	Now I don't know how to fit in the framework. Well, the last question was maybe a little long, so let me ask you a simple question. You have an employer's experience in the company where the owners were. If, as an employer, you had made a cost that you could not explain to the owners of the company, what would the owners have done to you as an employer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U142	Thank you for your question. It is certainly a very poor employer who makes expenses that are not in the company's interest, which harm the financial position of the company and are not aimed at achieving the objectives that are set by the owners or which arise from the nature of the profitable company. Such a manager or employer, I think, probably does not fit well in the employer's position. Businesses usually read money very carefully. If in an economic crisis, profits are not too high, then they are no longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U143	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U144	Thank you. Good waitress! I know an example of the actual practice of Estonian higher education institutions. Professionals, who are very much needed by employers, receive refresher courses. This is further training and no special preferential tax is payable on it. As it turns out that these courses have such a good curriculum that these subjects are converted into a part of a Master's degree without having to study separately, the university is satisfied, the employer is satisfied, and the students are satisfied. But do they suddenly do something wrong according to the logic of the current law? Should these courses be taxed, closed down, banned or taken? So far, they seem to be doing the right thing because education is one of the main engines of technical progress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U145	Thank you, Honourable Asker. This draft, as I understand it, concerns the exemption of level training from the income and social contributions of the special advantage, regardless of whether it is a level training related to the employment or service relationship. If the further training, which was your example, relates to the employment and service relationship, it is currently exempt, regardless of the procedure under Bill 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U146	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U147	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question for you, but also for the President of the sitting. You have been asked a number of questions based on what you would have done in your previous office or what another entrepreneur could have done. Were these issues really discussed at the Commission meeting? You are currently a representative of the Commission. From here on, my question to the President: are such matters relevant and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U148	Thank you for your question. I tried to remain polite and, if possible, to answer, although the Commission did not address the issues that are being asked here today. The Commission's debate took barely five minutes. I tried to answer. I admit that I may not have to get out of the Commission's debate, but I also answered these questions with courtesy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U149	Kaia Iva, a good co-worker! As the question was also for the President of the sitting, I will take this opportunity to answer your procedural question. I fully share the view that the representative of the Commission, who is present at the Chair of the Riigikogu, is talking about this debate or the procedure that took place in the Commission. I admit to you that I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and so it is difficult for me to assess what was discussed during the debate on Bill 4 in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I expect that the respondent will also draw attention if these issues were not discussed in the Commission. I agree with Aivar Sõer, a good co-worker, that the respondent always chooses to answer the question or that the subject was not discussed. Thank you for your attention. But I see a good fellow Väino Linde has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Correct me if I'm not on the right track. Am I right to understand that, in principle, the Commission's report does not mean that only the report of the Commission's sitting should be read out, but that the rapporteur must be able, on behalf of the Commission, to answer all our questions within the framework of this draft, which is the responsibility of this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U151	Thank you, good co-worker. I am absolutely convinced that you are on the right track. Let's keep going. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U152	Good waitress! I will continue to develop Eiki Nestor's mind. You yourself said that if the employer is unable to explain the costs to the owner, there is likely to be a problem. In fact, if the level training is also exempted from the special preferential tax, then it is necessary to explain these costs to the owners, and investment in so-called exotic areas is, however, largely impossible. What is the problem if you say that the employer is obliged to read his money very carefully?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U153	No problem. You asked what would happen if the employer incurred expenses that the company did not need. I said that in this case, this employer is not well suited for his job.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U154	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U155	Thank you. Good waitress! I will ask you one example of what was brought in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and on which you have already expressed your opinion briefly. I understand that if you were the director of a brick factory, you wouldn't be paying for opera lessons. What makes you think the real brick factory directors would do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U156	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I do not know whether my question concerns or does not concern the issues discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but my voter expects me to make it very clear before I press the button. That's why I'm asking you. In my understanding, the entrepreneur has two important resources: equipment and people. If an undertaking invests in buying some kind of equipment that is more shiny than former equipment, it is an investment. A trained person has better quality brain cells. If the employer pays for his employee's training, even Latin, why is it not an investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U157	Thank you. The government-led draft, which relieves income and social tax obligations of the level of training related to employment and service relationships, will encourage investment in workers and thus generate higher productivity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U158	Please, Mr Dress, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U159	Thank you. In explaining their questions, the Social Democrats speak a logical and noble story. At the same time, they have made a draft which, in addition to real investment in education, also allows for extensive tax fraud. For example, it is very easy to agree that the bonus will be awarded in such a way as to organise training trips or whatever. These possibilities, these holes seem to be in every section of this bill. Could it be conceivable to continue working on this idea in the context of the government union agreement, perhaps focusing on level education and making it tax-free in such a way as to eliminate tax fraud on the side as far as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U160	Thank you for your question. I'm sure the government's initiative has been better thought out. It is also meant that things should not get out of control and that the draft would not in any way (I would not want to use such a category here) encourage tax fraud. The government bill is really better thought out in this regard. But the bill is still pending, the first reading is over. I understood that the Social Democrats have put forward their proposals to supplement the government's rather analogous or similar draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U161	Please, Mr Peep Aru, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm in a bit of a misunderstanding. Mr Mikser made a criticism of the Commission as to why you devoted only five minutes to this draft. However, on behalf of the drafters, the one who went to the board said that this bill was being discussed at least nine times in this Chamber. A modest calculation shows that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has devoted a total of about 45 minutes to this draft. Is that a little or a lot?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U163	Thank you. Perhaps I was a little wrong with the assessment, perhaps the Commission did not address it for five minutes, but ten minutes, but it is many times less than the time we have now spent discussing this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U164	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U165	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As we all know, the Government of the Republic has decided to reduce the maximum deduction of income tax from EEK 50000 to EEK 30000. It certainly reduced people's training opportunities. Do you not think it would be fairer to give entrepreneurs this draft the opportunity to support the training and studies of their employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U166	Thank you. I don't think so. I think that the level training of staff, when it relates to employment and service relationships, will make it possible to very well support the draft Income Tax Act, which is initiated by the Government, which does not tax the cost of the level training of employment and service relationships as a special advantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U167	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! During the five minutes that you discussed this draft thoroughly in the Commission, did you also make it clear to yourself what level training is now about? For example, did you try to explain to yourself the things that have been implemented in the Republic of Estonia, such as the KTA system or modular training, through which, for example, level training can finally be obtained, but it is initially credit-based?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U169	Thank you for your question. The financial commission certainly did not address the scope of the law on continuing training in such depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U170	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? I see there's a wish. Please, Mr Nestor, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U171	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I won't torture you for long, but one big mistake I'm obliged to fix. My colleague Reps's comment to Taavi's garment was very appropriate. This draft has been accused of basically one thing over time, and that is what we talked about in the Commission, but I did not really look at how many minutes. The question is whether the cost of training is paid or not. The debate in the Commission also took place in a number of ways. However, ladies and gentlemen, training at the level is clearly defined by the law on the basis of the parameters on which people study. You can't fit anything under there that a vigilante in Clothes wanted to fit in. I can't imagine that we would have gotten an official status because someone wanted to go somewhere to rest. This is bullshit! Don't talk like that. If you don't know what level training is, shut up, don't talk. It's okay, somebody else will say it, and then you'll find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U172	Thank you for your question. This question certainly goes beyond the framework of this draft. It is quite difficult to make an assessment of this. I don't know how to make that assessment right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U173	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Finance Committee discussed Bill No 4 amending § 48 of the Income Tax Act at its meeting on 31 May. As the initiator's representative, Eiki Nestor, vice-president of the Social Democratic Party Group, presented the draft. The Commission's discussion referred to questions and situations arising in practice, as well as the previous speaker's opinion on the effects and costs of the draft, its differences in relation to the government's opinion, as well as equal or unequal treatment of undertakings. The Government of the Republic had previously given a negative opinion on the draft, since the purpose of the draft is to enable employers to spend a certain amount of their employees' education without tax liability and the draft excludes the treatment of level training as a special advantage for all employees and employers within the meaning of Paragraph 48 of the Income Tax Act, regardless of the content of the level training. The government did not consider it appropriate to support the draft on the grounds that the special benefit is a specific type of remuneration which is subject to income and social tax in order to ensure uniform treatment of remuneration paid in cash and provided in other forms. Otherwise, in order to optimise its tax burden, it would be more useful for the employer to compensate the employee for the costs incurred to cover his various personal needs and interests instead of paying his salary. Workers would also be in an unequal position depending on whether the employer uses only wages or partly special benefits to reward them. As a result, the condition of the tax credit is that the costs of the level training are covered in the employment and service relationship and must be directly linked to the level training in that relationship. But the bill doesn't provide for such restrictions. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda on 7 June (the debate was postponed to date) and to reject it at first reading. It was supported by 6 and against 5 members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U175	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Aivar Sõerd! It is my great honour and pleasure to ask this question to you because you are the right person to answer it. I have long been interested in why the exemption from the special preferential tax is called a tax credit because it is actually a tax which, in terms of its components, is more similar to the taxes paid by private individuals: there is a share of personal income tax and a part of social tax. This concerns not only the current issue, but also, for example, non-profit organisations included in the list of non-profit organisations and foundations benefiting from income tax at the Ministry of Finance. The donations made to them are also exempt from the special preferential tax. But why are we always talking about tax exemptions? It's more like a terminological question. Can you explain this to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U177	Thank you for your question. In one case, there is a situation where both income tax and social contributions are taxed on a pay-out or special advantage. Paragraph 48 of the Income Tax Act deals with special tax advantages. Here is the definition of the special advantage and the list of cases which are considered as special advantages. In these cases, income and social contributions are also to be paid. If it is not a special advantage within the meaning of the Income Tax Act, there is no need to pay income tax and social tax. That's the difference. We can call it a tax-free article or whatever. The question is still substantive: whether or not there is a tax liability.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U178	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U179	I am pleased to see Aivar Sõerdi as the Commission's co-rapporteur here, because you have such a good, clear behind and successful career and before the Riigikogu you worked as an employer in a beautiful company with a broad economic activity. There were owners there, and you were the employer. I wonder what the owners of your company would have done to you if it had become clear that you paid for the Latin studies of a person working at the Tallink Hotel, which the Tallink Hotel probably does not need. What would they have done to such an employer? Would they have left you working?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U180	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I don't know if you have any private business experience, but I really do have it. Perhaps this experience is not too long, but in the last four years, I did not have any problems with owners, shareholders or tax authorities with regard to special advantages. The Latin skills were not needed by the workers; we managed to do with Swedish, English, Russian, German and French. Maybe I didn't list all the languages, but the Latin skills were certainly not needed by the employees, so this practical problem didn't arise. As regards your own example, which you in the Commission have pointed out, that the manager of a brick factory pays for the costs of studying as an employee's opera singer, I do not think it is justified to consider this as a training in the employment and service relationship. Why should this employer pay for the costs of training (i.e. opera singing) that is not needed in brick production? We can construct borderline situations, as was the question of the Latin proficiency of the university's foreign relations specialist, but I do not think that these are everyday in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U181	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U182	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You read nicely the opinion of the Government of the Republic. But can you explain yourself why you think that level training is a special type of payout?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U183	Thank you, Honourable Asker. We don't live in the perfect world. There may be situations in which an employee has an interest in engaging in some kind of hobby, for example, study it at a school, which also provides a certificate of proficiency. However, the employer clearly does not need an employee with such qualifications. In another situation, the employer pays only wages and does not allow for special benefits, which we really qualify as special benefits. In such a case, an unequal situation arises between undertakings. I don't think the law should encourage such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U184	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U185	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In the past, we have also discussed the possible exclusion of certain health care costs and health promotion costs for the employer from the costs subject to the special preferential tax. Even then, there has always been a dispute as to whether this is a wage supplement and whether entrepreneurs/employers are going to pay wages in appendic surgery and, on the other hand, the employee has been asked whether the contractor, if he does not need such an operation, is still prepared to accept such a wage component. My question, therefore, in the context of this draft, is this: what do you think about how much of the salary the average contractor would be prepared to accept as level training?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U186	I don't think so. This example is artificial and unlikely in practice. But if we still imagine such a situation, why are the owners or managers of a brick factory who pay off non-service-related in-service training at a disadvantage compared to those who can make non-work and non-service-related expenses exempt from income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U187	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U188	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I will try to put my question in a simpler and more comprehensible way. In Estonia's practice, level education is done in such a way that it is initially taught under the name of tax-free continuing education, but credits are subsequently transferred to a degree or master's degree. Still, the law is with holes. The point of the question was that maybe it would be easier to go along with the current bill and so rule out slipping. Or am I on the wrong path?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U189	Thank you for your question. I do not think it makes any sense for us to create artificial or imaginary situations that may or may not occur in practice. Look, luckily, we have a ruling rule. If the taxpayer is not sure whether or not to comply with the tax law correctly, it will be able to turn to the tax authority and ask for a preliminary ruling and the tax authority will be obliged to issue a preliminary ruling under the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U190	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U191	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a rather brief question. According to the Rules of Procedure, the only rapporteur in this Chamber since the second reading is the Commission's rapporteur. If it were to remain within the limits of the Commission's discussions, it would be easiest from the Commission's point of view not to discuss anything at all, but only to vote. In this case, there would be no need to have a debate in this Chamber either. You said that the Commission devoted about five minutes to this point. My question is: is the fact that the Committee on Monetary Affairs considered it necessary to devote only five minutes of debate to such a substantive draft is something that should brag about in front of the grand Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U192	Thank you. If the representative of the Socialists in the Commission had pointed out all the issues or situations that I am being asked about here today, the Commission would certainly have dealt with them. However, such questions were not asked in the Commission. Obviously, it was considered (or you) more appropriate to discuss these matters in the large hall. But I really have to stay within the rules here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U193	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U194	Thank you. I was surprised by the questions where examples of a brick factory were constructed, as if the brick factory were a typical Estonian company. Am I on the right track when I say that there are more tax risks in an ordinary micro-business, where the employer himself is an employee and where, as a result of this bill, he would have the opportunity to allow himself or his loved ones to be completely indiscriminately educated and not only to pay the company's educational expenses tax-free? Rather, the tax risk here is not caused by the so-called "large companies" and by the designed examples brought by the questioners, but by the companies that are actually operating in Estonia, where we make tax evasion extremely attractive. Am I on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U195	I'm sure you're on the right track. The owners of a large company have set up a supervisory board to monitor the work of the management board. In addition, there is a wider circle of shareholders. In a small company, there is certainly more risk of cross-cutting interests and also of tax avoidance. That was a very correct question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U196	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U197	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you very much. It was said here that someone who has experience in the private sector is likely to understand better whether educated people need a team or not. Based on my own experience in managing a seven-year-old company, I dare say that educated and diverse people are the largest resource for the company. If an entrepreneur decides that he or she is willing to contribute to his or her person and support his or her education, then the state should play a part in it. I see nothing wrong with a secretary who may not be directly required to obtain a higher education or a master's degree wanting to study and the company paying for it. I still do not understand this logic, which is why you want to punish entrepreneurs and prevent the people of Estonia from being more educated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U198	Thank you for your question. This is certainly not about punishing entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, as I said, we do not live in an ideal world. There have already been some examples of situations. Indeed, there may be a situation where the employer pays off the employee's additional hobbies, which are not really necessary to achieve the goals of the company. I would still treat this as a special advantage in the form of a salary. If an undertaking pays only wages and does not make special advantages in whatever form, even in the form of training which the undertaking does not need, it shall pay tax on everything. You have to pay 100% tax on income and social security. Why, then, create a situation where the special benefit granted as part of a salary is tax-free, but the wages paid in cash are, of course, subject to income and social tax? I hope you understand my reasoning.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U199	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U200	Thank you very much, Mr Nestor. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Since the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft law, we need to vote through this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please vote! 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 40 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. Bill No 4 fell out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U201	The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled "The granting of a State guarantee for a loan between the European Investment Bank and the foundation North Estonian Regional Hospital', begins. Eiki Nestor, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Finance Committee made this draft decision, which aims to improve access to health services in Estonia, with one clarification and this is under item 3. In fact, our wise assistants, in the form of advisers, made it clear to us that, since the amendment of the Law of the Official Journal of the Republic, it is the order that every decision of the Riigikogu must be accompanied by the date of its entry into force. So that's what we added here. There were no other disputes in the Commission. As a rapporteur, I think it is necessary to remind you that, according to § 104 (15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft as a decision, as this decision concerns foreign and internal loans and the property obligations of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U203	Thank you very much, Mr Nestor. There are no questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There has been one amendment to the draft, as Mr Nestor has said, tabled by the lead committee, which has been fully taken into account. We can go to the final vote on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, we will, please, carry out a verification of the presence. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. Dear Riigikogu, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Giveting a State guarantee for a loan between the European Investment Bank and the foundation North Estonian Regional Hospital', as submitted by the Government of the Republic, draft 49. Please vote! 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U204	The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the International Tropical Timber Treaty 2006 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Environment Committee of the Speaker's Board, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U205	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the 2006 draft law on ratification of the International Tropical Timber Treaty was concluded on 1 June. a. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 3 June. 4 p.m. No amendments were tabled by political groups, committees or members of the Riigikogu. At its meeting on 16 May, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft law on ratification of the International Tropical Timber Treaty 2006 be put to a final vote and adopted as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U206	Thank you very much, Mr Tamkivi. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments either, so we can go to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act on the ratification of the 2006 International Tropical Timber Treaty, initiated by the Government of the Republic 26. Please vote! 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U207	The second reading of the draft law on ratification of the Cotonou Agreement, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I would like the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Frontland.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U208	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on ratification of the second amendment of the Cotonou Agreement was the first procedure in this Chamber on 18 May. We agreed that until 1 June we would wait for the amendments, but these proposals did not come. On 6 June there was a new debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and then we took procedural decisions: to bring this draft law on ratification into this Chamber today, and our proposal is to conclude the second reading and adopt it as a law. It was decided to appoint a speaker here. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U209	Thank you very much, Mr Enn Frontland. No questions for you either. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As there are no amendments, we will go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft Act on the ratification of the Second Amendment Agreement to the Cotonou Agreement initiated by the Government of the Republic 12. Please vote! 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U210	The second reading of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws begins. Igor Gräzini, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U211	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We have examined bill No 9 and an amendment has been received, which you will also see in the table. I would like to point out that, although eight things are being changed here at the same time, there is a question of 'yes' or 'no': all eight things are interrelated and should therefore be voted at the same time. It was a request from the Commission. Secondly, as a romantic aspect, I would like to add the comment that all these proposals relate to the increase in the number of nominal-value shares in turnover and, in the future, what used to be called nominal, is no longer what it had in the past. It has no book value, no book value or any other value. This is a technical correction and reflects this new situation. The Commission examined the amendment and approved it and invited the Assembly to conclude the second reading. The decision was adopted by consensus. When the second reading is completed today, we have a proposal to put the third reading of the bill on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on 15 June. We have a proposal to adopt this bill as a law. The Commission's decision was unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U212	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Two amendments to the draft law have been tabled. Both have been proposed by the commission and have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill No 9 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U213	The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U214	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! The Commission discussed the draft law amending the Law on the Specific Labelling of Liquid Fuel on 6 June. The purpose of the Act is to reform the system of special-marked fuel tax exemptions in two stages by providing direct payments in certain areas instead. We were expecting amendments for the second reading of the draft, but unfortunately they did not come. I will give a brief overview of the Commission's debate on 6 June. I informed the Commission that the working group of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, after the first reading of the draft, held a meeting with economic operators. A reminder that an earlier meeting with the Forest and Wood Industries Association had taken place before the first reading. On 3 June a meeting took place with representatives of the Association of Mining Enterprises, the Association of Construction Materials Producers and the Association of Construction Undertakings. These are areas not covered by the second-stage direct payments for the reform of the special labelling system. Of course, operators who lose access to exemptions are affected by the loss of the benefit. In order to discuss these problems directly with economic operators, this meeting had been organised. In the Commission, the budgetary impact of abolishing the specific labelling of liquid fuel was discussed. This will bring an additional €27.8 million into the budget already in the first year and in the future, obviously in the same order of magnitude. The question was that if the mining industry does not receive direct payments in the second phase, the situation of miners would deteriorate and the price of electricity would also be affected. There was a debate on this issue. The transitional provisions on how exactly the transition should take place were also addressed. A representative of the Ministry of Finance was involved. The Commission discussed these issues and decided to put the draft on the agenda on 8 June and to close the second reading. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour of this decision, 5 against it. The Commission also decided that, once the second reading was completed, the third reading would take place on 15 June. The decision was adopted by 6 members of the Commission, 1 against and 4 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U215	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. You have questions. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U216	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! Was the timetable for the second phase discussed in the Commission? The explanatory memorandum states that proposals for the second phase will be submitted within the second half of the year. Will these proposals be presented during this period and the law will be fully implemented from 1 January 2012 when the specially labelled fuel no longer exists anywhere in our country? Is that the way to solve this whole problem complex, or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U217	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Yes, this issue was under discussion in the Commission. The Government representative explained that the measures for implementing the second phase and the grant mechanism will certainly be developed during this year, so that the law can be fully implemented from 1 January 2012. It is known that the development of these measures is listed in the government's work programme and the relevant ministries, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance have received a starting point. It is certainly the Government's very clear view that these proposals, mechanisms and support schemes must be developed and that, from 1 January 2012, the specially labelled fuel could disappear from circulation. At first reading, the question was that there must inevitably be some transitional period during which the previously acquired fuel will be allowed to be used, but in principle, at least on the basis of today's knowledge, the specific labelling of the fuel will disappear, provided that support mechanisms are developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U218	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U219	Thank you. As an introduction, I would like to congratulate the Members of the Commission and, in particular, the rapporteur for trying to resolve the deficit that was in the preparation of the draft at least in some way and to meet with business. But since this was very brief in your presentation, would you describe what problems, for example, in the construction industry or in mining, arise the most in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U220	Thank you. In committee, I talked about this meeting a little bit more. If all the members of the Commission had participated in this meeting, it would have been even more clear. But unfortunately, not everyone could participate. I can pass on some business concerns. Of course, competition is a problem. For example, the mining industry is not, in fact, the only concern for businesses at present is the loss of specially labelled fuel. High resource charges were also brought out. We all know that companies went on the free market of electricity some time ago, and this significantly increased the price of electricity for large companies. Construction companies, mining companies, construction material producers have an important cost component for electricity. In a situation where the crisis has ended and the future seems a little brighter, the appreciation of the components of the cost price raises concerns and reduces the prospects for making a profit. Businesses would have wished that the notice period would have been longer than today until the end of the year, which could have been a few years. Their concern, of course, is understandable. However, the debate was longer, it lasted for two hours. I can't report everything here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U221	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U222	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! It is, of course, a good thing that you met businessmen and their representatives. I've read these materials. There were no positive points raised by these alliances. What did you do for two hours? Did you listen to them, and then you said, "Thank you for talking, but we're gonna split up and we're not gonna make a difference"? Or did you do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U223	Thank you. In this respect, I am of the second opinion that I found this meeting to be very valuable, both for the legislator's representatives and for businesses. As I said, hearing the problems is necessary for future legislation and brings added value to both sides. Indeed, the disappearance of special fuel in the future is certainly a problem which affects the cost price, in addition to other components that have a negative impact on the cost price. For example, the already recorded increase in electricity prices of 40% or even up to 50% was, of course, a beautiful one. There was also the issue of charges for the use of mineral resources, which is certainly an issue that we, as legislator, must inevitably discuss in the future. There are a lot of problems. It is worth seeing more entrepreneurs and exchanging information. This brings added value to both sides.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U224	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U225	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Before this excellent draft was defined as engagement with partners prior to the initiation of the draft. You're doing it between two readings. How do you think this is in line with good lawmaking practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U226	Thank you for your question. I would remind you that this draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm sure the Government of the Republic did some preliminary work. Several activities have taken place here. As a representative of the Committee on Finance, I can say that we started meetings already before the first reading and continued them between the first and second readings. But it is worth consulting businesses, listening to them and exchanging information with them on many other drafts, not only with regard to tax or fuel regulations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U227	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U228	I'm sorry! There's a problem with the remote. I haven't pressed the button.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U229	Then there's no question. Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. No further questions. I understand that Mr Kaljuvee wants to negotiate. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U230	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Two things in particular make me wonder about the Centre Party Group and about this draft. Firstly, how the power parties that call themselves business friendly (they declare each other victory when they are business friendly) take more than one billion kroons, or more than 60 million euros, from companies in the six sectors, as shown in the explanatory memorandum. It's just being taken away from the operators. That is one thing: while declaring their business-friendliness and, as it turned out, the parties involved are invited to the Commission between two readings, asking what they think about it, listening to the answers, but still doing what was decided before. The second thing that surprises me is that it is EUR 60 million, but the press is hardly saying anything about it. Neither the initiator nor the parties involved are interested in the press at all. At the same time, we have already heard about the land tax of 17 million euros a year before and after meals, after waking up and before going to bed. What does that mean? Is there a muzzle put on the media? I don't think they're so stupid that they don't really understand what they're doing to companies. I bring the example of Kunda Nordic Cement to show what this decision really means for one company and how business-friendly these two power parties are. The production process begins with a career in the mining industry. The cost of all mining works will increase as the price of fuel represents a third of it. Rail transport takes raw materials to the factory, while fuel prices rise by 20 to 30%. Kunda Nordic Cement exports two thirds of its production, one third goes east, one third goes west. In both cases, specially labelled fuel shall be used. I mean, transport is already going to be much more expensive, with special fuel being used in these sectors and their modes of transport everywhere, in the Nordic countries, in the East and in the West. It's not just those on the state road who use specially marked fuel, everyone else does. Sõerd was talking here about the fact that the mining sector, oil shale, is not affected by all of this, because the company goes and asks for more prices and the price of electricity rises. Kunda Nordic Cement accounts for 40% of the cost of energy. If the price of electricity rises, the oil shale will become more expensive. The oil shale is transported by rail. So, in principle, the cost price of a single product is changed so much that competitiveness is lost. We can take any sector, we can talk about the forestry sector, machines or small boiler houses. This is not the way to implement the budget, it is not the right way to do it. We cannot support this draft at next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U231	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. There are no amendments to the draft law, but such a message has come to the Bureau: 'The Group of the Social Democratic Party proposes that the second reading of Bill 39 be interrupted. ' This proposal must be voted through. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of bill No 39 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U232	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr Erki Noole, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U233	Madam Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity 42 was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday, 7 June. Marek Uusküla, Head of Customs and Excise Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, also participated. The aim of the draft is to increase the revenue of the state budget by raising the excise duty rates on tobacco products by 10% from 2013, bringing it closer to the EU minimum rate that will enter into force in 2014. Raising the rate of excise duty on tobacco products also serves health protection objectives. No amendments were received at the deadline, but as a result of the debate on 7 June, the Commission proposed a consensual amendment increasing the fixed component of the excise duty rate for cigarettes from EUR 46 to EUR 47.63 and reducing the proportional share from 34% to 33% of the maximum retail price for cigarettes. The aim of this amendment is to make cigarettes at lower prices more accessible to young people who are subject to higher taxation. This change is relatively small. It used to be a tradition to be taxed at 50:50. Now this intercourse changes a little, not very much, but there is a clear message that the proportion of excise increases will be reduced and the fixed part increased. The Commission received a number of requests from stakeholders regarding the draft. Proposals were made to postpone the increase in excise duty rates, to take into account health protection aspects when changing excise duty rates, to resolve tax mark problems, as well as to lower tax rates for cigars and cigarillos. On the basis of the information received, the Commission did not support further amendments to the draft. I will mention a few other issues that were discussed yesterday in the Commission. The relationship between the fixed and proportional rate mentioned above and the effects of its amendment were discussed. It was proposed to increase the fixed rate from EUR 47.63 to EUR 48. It couldn't find any support. A change in the share of the secret market was also discussed when the rate of excise duty on cheaper cigarettes was increased. The opinion was expressed that this would have an immediate impact on the secret market. It was a question of how much this increase will affect the state budget. It is estimated that this would bring EUR 9 million to the Treasury. It was also discussed that the difference between the price of more expensive cigarettes and that of cheaper cigarettes could be marginal. In addition, the reduction of the tax on cigarillos was discussed. One category had very specific examples that cigar tax rates are much lower in different countries and that when the two-component rate is applied in most European countries, the same rate is applied in Estonia. There is a reason that in Estonia cigars can be sold alone and we should start putting tax marks on every cigar. This should be preceded by a more thorough background check. These were the issues that were discussed yesterday in the Commission. Finally, the Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on 8 June and to close the second reading (this was a consensual decision), when the second reading was closed, to make the third reading on 15 June. a (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U234	Thank you very much, Mr Erki Arrow. There are no questions. Sorry, there's a question! Please hurry, my colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U235	Thank you. I have a question for the waitress. I like political stability. As an opponent, I have two hands in favour of this bill, but I want to ask you if you've thought this through carefully. The government that raises the price of beer won't last long. I'm worried.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U236	Thank you, questioner! Since we don't change the price of beer with this law, I hope it doesn't affect the government's survival. The rise in excise duty on cigarettes has not overthrown the governments of the countries, and I think this pleasant tradition will continue in Estonia as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U237	Please, Mr Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U238	No, there's been a mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U239	No further questions. Thank you again, Mr Erki Arrow. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law, tabled by the commission of directors, which has been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 42 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U240	The second reading of the draft law amending the State Defence Act and other laws relating to the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, as rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U241	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law was completed on 18 May. a. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 31 May, where Erki Kodar, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, participated as the initiator of the draft. Tõnis Lukas, member of the Riigikogu who tabled an amendment to the draft, had also been invited to this committee meeting. The amendments of the Estonian Central Party Group were explained by Aivar Riisalu, Vice-President of the National Defence Commission. As a reminder, the primary aim of the draft is to bring national defence laws into line with those adopted by the two Riigikogu members and s. a Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia which enter into force on 22 July. In view of the fact that the draft provides for amendments to almost all laws on national defence and the fact that new draft laws on defence, peace and war defence and the Defence Union are being prepared in the Ministry of Defence within the framework of the work programme of the Government of the Republic, the National Defence Commission found that problems, ideas and proposals raised during the procedure, which do not form amendments, are fixed and forwarded in writing to the Minister of Defence. The Commission will continue this work and, hopefully, in July, we will also send out a letter on this. The National Defence Committee decided on 31 May. In a session of the Riigikogu, by consensus, the Board of the Riigikogu is invited to include the draft law for the second reading on the agenda of the 8 June session of the Riigikogu. The rapporteur for the draft was appointed here. At its meeting on 31 May, the Committee on National Defence also decided by consensus to present a table of amendments for the second reading of the draft, the text of the draft at second reading and the explanatory memorandum. A few words on the amendments. There are 12 amendments to the draft, 11 of which were fully and substantially taken into account by the commission. The reasons for the amendments tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Lukas and here the speaker and the Estonian Centre Party are in the table of the amendments. The amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee were the result of the proposals made by Mr Engel, the Head of the Advisory and Secretariat of the Commission, and the discussions that took place in the Commission. The reasons for the amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee as the commission of directors are set out in the explanatory memorandum to the draft. In terms of time savings, I am not going to read them here. All I note is that all decisions were taken by consensus in the Commission. In addition to making decisions on the amendments, the Commission made a number of technical and linguistic clarifications, more specifically referred to in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft and underlined in the text of the draft as proposed amendments. The National Defence Committee decided on 31 May. At its plenary session, the Assembly shall, by consensus, be invited to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U242	Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. There are no questions for you. Oh, I'm sorry! Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U243	Thank you, Mr President. I have to point out that the remote control isn't working, so that's where the delays come from. I apologise to my colleagues who have previously been registered. My question comes about Article 5 (5) of the bill, which talks about the term of office of the Commander of the Defence Forces. In the case of other force structures, the Police and Border Guard Board or the Director General of the Defence Police Department, this restriction is not known unless the age of retirement is reached. Did the Commission also discuss the possibility of not restricting the term of office of the Commander of the Defence Forces to a single period, i.e. five years, so that there would be a wider choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U244	Thank you. That's what we were talking about. The Commission's work was long and meaningful, with a large number of observations made. I mentioned that we would definitely write a letter of formal notice. We will also have this topic again under discussion when a new law on defence comes to our table. The Defence Forces Service Act in its new 6th is coming to an end and hopefully in autumn will come to the Riigikogu proceedings. Then we can view it in a complex way. There is also a need to look at the coherence, as the Defence Forces, unlike the law enforcement authorities, have so-called double management: they are the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Chief of the General Staff. We must also look at their comparison on a similar issue. The question is correct and we will come back to it with the relevant law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U245	Please, Mr Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U246	Thank you. Dear waitress, Members of the committee don't usually ask in the hall, but my heart's a little crunchy. Our decisions were consensual, but I ask for peace in the heart. We considered this amendment that the Commander of the Defence Forces is appointed by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, taking into account the position of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. Does this change not make the decision-making process too long in a war situation (as we imagine it)?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U247	Thank you. First of all, when we're talking about appointing someone in a war situation, in the old lawroom, we appointed a commander-in-chief, not a manager. Perhaps in a war situation, the Commander of the Defence Forces will be the one appointed during peace. However, I admit that this issue should be analysed in depth within the framework of these new drafts. It is a strong desire in this four year period to rewrite the laws of peace and wartime national defence and to contribute here in the Riigikogu. This is where time-critical decision-making processes need to be reviewed. I also have some experience from Georgia in times of crisis. I would say that Parliament's involvement in these decisions is more of a strength than a weakness than a view from an international perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U248	Ladies and gentlemen, Any more questions? No, it's not. Thank you very much, Mr Mati Raidma. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There's 12 of them. The first one has been tabled by Mr Mati Raidma, the commission has taken the proposal fully into account. The second has been presented by the Estonian Centre Party Group; this proposal has been fully taken into account. The third and fourth have been submitted by the National Defence Committee, and these proposals have been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Mr Lukas has tabled the fifth, the commission has taken the proposal into account in substance. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee, which has been fully taken into account. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has taken the proposal fully into account. The eighth, ninth and tenth amendments have been tabled by the commission and have been fully taken into account. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the lead committee, the proposal has been fully taken into account. The 12th amendment has been tabled by Mr Mati Raidma, the commission has taken the proposal fully into account. Ladies and gentlemen, Second reading of bill 28 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U249	The second reading of the Securities Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. I would like to ask Taavi Rõivas, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U250	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The purpose of the draft is to transpose into Estonian law the European Union Directive on financial collateral and securities settlement and to specify the registration procedures related to securities accounts in the central register of Estonian securities so that it would be more convenient and cheaper for small investors to carry out transactions relating to securities and it would be easier for foreign investors to acquire securities in Estonia. The draft amends a number of financial laws, but the most important changes are made to the Securities Market Act, the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act and the Law of Property Act. The draft was discussed by the Commission. May 17th and June 6th. The Committee on Finance decided to make eight amendments to the draft, which were prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and mainly specify the provisions and organise them in a technical manner. All amendments are further explained in the list of amendments. The Commission's consensual proposal is to conclude the second reading, make a third reading of the draft tomorrow and adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U251	Thank you very much, Mr Javier. Please, Rein Randver! Isn't it again?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U252	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U253	I'm sorry! There are no questions. Thank you very much. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Eight amendments to the draft law have been tabled, and we will review them. The first amendment has been tabled by the lead committee, the proposal has been fully taken into account. The second, third, fourth and fifth amendments have been tabled by the commission and the proposals have been fully taken into account. The sixth, seventh and eighth amendments have also been tabled by the lead committee, the proposals have been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill No 8 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U254	The first reading of the draft law restricting the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm calling Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U255	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In May 1996, the law restricting the transfer of immovable property to an alien, a foreign country and a legal person came into force. According to that law, both foreign citizens and legal persons and legal persons registered in Estonia were able to acquire land only with the permission of the country's landlord. The principles of that law did not correspond to the chapter on the free movement of capital in the Treaty establishing the European Union. The Ministry of Agriculture developed a law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property in accordance with European Union legislation and accession negotiations (KAKS) and entered into force on 1 April 2003. During the accession negotiations with the European Union, it was agreed that, in the case of the acquisition of agricultural land and forest land, Estonia may, within seven years of the date of accession, maintain the rules laid down in the legislation in force at the time the contract was signed. The transitional period thus ended in s. a on 1 May. In particular, four factors led to the need to change the current KAOX. First, according to § 7 (2) and (3) of the current KAOX implementing provisions, after the end of the transitional period of Estonia's accession to the European Union, i.e. after 1 May 2011 the requirements for the acquisition of agricultural or forestry land by nationals or legal persons of the Contracting State of the European Economic Area, to reside in Estonia, to register in Estonia and to acquire experience in the production of agricultural products or forest management in Estonia do not apply. In addition, after 1 May 2011, the legal entity of the Contracting State is not subject to any restrictions on the ownership or ownership of immovable property. Secondly, on the basis of the agreement on the terms and conditions of accession of the Republic of Estonia to the Convention, ratified by the Riigikogu on 10 November 2010, after 31 May 2011, the circle of members of the OECD will be extended by 31 May 2011 and the requirements for residence in Estonia, registration in the Estonian business register and acquisition of experience in the production of agricultural products or forest management in Estonia will also not apply to the purchase of land in Estonia. Third, the current implementation of the KAOKS (rural governments, municipalities and notaries), as well as the applicants for the right to acquire immovable property, have raised questions and problems in the implementation and interpretation of the law. Fourthly, the government has a desire and a proposal to extend the restrictions on the sale of state lands to the Riigikogu. The purpose of the Act is similar to that of the current KAKS: to lay down restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property for the purpose of the land-for-profit land of public interest and on the basis of State security considerations. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal has analysed the implementation of the current KAOX, but I will sum up some of the most important points. Cadastral units containing at least 10 hectares of agricultural and forestry land account for 23% of all cadastral units. The total number of cadastral units containing at least 10 hectares of agricultural and forestry land in Estonia is 86600 (2.88 million hectares or 15%). Why am I talking about 10 hectares and larger units here? Because the draft we are discussing today concerns the limitations of ten hectares and larger units of land, as is the case in the current KAOKS. During the years 2003 to 2009, Estonia, with the exception of Tallinn, had a purchase-sale transaction of 52330 land for land income and the owner changed 575000 hectares of agricultural and forestry land. During the same period, rural governments issued 1230 permits for the acquisition of 33500 hectares of agricultural or forestry land. Thus, less than 6% of the purchases and sales of land for profit were made on the basis of the land parent's permission. Decisions refusing to grant an authorisation were taken in 162 applicants and therefore 4700 hectares of land-for-profit land were not acquired by those applicants under this law. According to the Registries and Information Systems Centre, currently less than 3% of privately owned land is owned by foreign citizens. The following are some general explanations on the draft. Compared to the current KAOX, the general principles of limiting the acquisition of immovable property and the processing of the permit have not been changed. While according to the current KAOKS, an Estonian citizen can acquire land for profit without restrictions, at the end of the transitional period of accession to the European Union, the citizen of the Contracting State of the European Economic Area and of an OECD Member State will also have the right to acquire land without restrictions. The conditions for the acquisition of ten hectares or more of agricultural or forestry property by the contracting countries of the European Economic Area and now also by the legal entities of the OECD Member States continue to apply. It should be noted that legal persons registered in Estonia or branches of companies in the Contracting Countries can freely acquire immovable property containing less than 10 hectares of land-for-profit land. According to the current law, property with 10 hectares or more agricultural or forestry land may be acquired without the permission of the county governor, by persons of the Contracting State of the European Economic Area, registered in the Estonian register, who have carried out at least the last three financial years in Estonia in the production of agricultural products or in the management of forests. According to the new regulation, a similar immovable property can be acquired without the permission of the county governor in the same way as an Estonian citizen, both a citizen of the European Economic Area Contracting State and a citizen of an OECD Member State. Such immovable property may be acquired by a legal person in those countries without the permission of the farmer if he has been engaged in the production of agricultural products or the management of forests in any country for a period of three years. The restrictions on third-country nationals have not changed. Persons from these countries may continue to acquire agricultural or forestry land only with the permission of the farmer. In order to obtain the permit, a citizen must have resided in Estonia permanently for at least six months immediately before applying for the permit, or been resident here for at least one year as a self-employed person. In the case of a legal person, his/her branch must be in the Estonian business register and he/she must have worked in Estonia for at least one year on the production of agricultural products or forest management. Unlike the current KAOX, the draft provides for the possibility of renting the immovable property to be acquired. The applicant is obliged to prove that the lessee has been engaged in the production of agricultural products or forest management in Estonia for the last three years. In the case of land leases, the grantor must be satisfied that the person actually making use of the land ensures the realisation of the public interest and the targeted use of the land. The procedures of the county governor and local government for processing the permit application, as well as the grounds for granting or refusing the permit, have been specified. According to the draft law, the general procedure for authorising the acquisition of immovable property extends from 60 days to 100 days. This change is necessary because it has become apparent in practice that 60 days is still too short for a rural elder to make a decision. If the local authority has taken a negative position on the granting of the permit and the county governor wishes to grant the permit, the matter shall be decided by the Minister of Agriculture. The Mayor and the Minister of Agriculture may decide not to grant an authorisation if the authorisation is contrary to the public interest and the granting of an authorisation prevents the local authority from carrying out the tasks assigned to it by law. In particular, I would like to draw attention to a significantly restrictive amendment. The current KAOX requirements do not apply in cases where the transferor of the immovable property is the Estonian state. Between 2003 and 2010, the Estonian state made 185 sales of land for sale to foreigners, up to a total of 1856 hectares. Most of this was done in connection with the sale of forest land. We are of the opinion that it is not justified to exclude transactions involving state assets from the effect of KAOX. The Government therefore proposes that the sale of state-owned agricultural and forestry land be subject to the requirements laid down in the law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property. Finally. Paragraph 3 of the current KAOX defines areas with national defence restrictions. These are local authorities bordering the external borders of the European Union plus Narva-Jõesuu and Sillamäe and Estonia's small islands, with the exception of Saaremaa, Muhumaa, Hiiumaa and Vormsi. Persons who are neither citizens of Estonia nor legal persons of the Contracting State are prohibited from acquiring immovable property there. However, for important reasons, the Government of the Republic may authorise the State to acquire land in these areas. Since 2003, when the law came into force, the Government of the Republic has exceptionally issued only two such permits. According to the draft regulation laying down restrictions will remain the same as in the current KAOX. Thank you. I hope that the procedure will be constructive and the Riigikogu will support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U256	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U257	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Let's see together § 10: "A natural person who is not a citizen of a Contracting State of the European Economic Area [... ] is prohibited from acquiring immovable property... ' Then comes the list: 'Ida-Virumaa: the cities of Narva, Narva-Jõesuu and Sillamäe... " The immovable is an apartment or a small piece of land. Does this mean that a third-country national, such as a Russian citizen who has been born in Estonia and resides here legally, is still prohibited from acquiring ten centuries of a gardening cooperative? What is a matter of interpretation of this law? Does the apartment go under it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U258	Thank you. First of all, I would like to reiterate that all defence-related restrictions, and now they are national defence-related restrictions, have remained exactly as they are in the law in force. We didn't expand or narrow anything here. But for you to understand this correctly, I say that this law as a whole generally extends to land for profit and does not generally extend to residential land. In other words, properties such as residential land, apartment property and all other such acts do not generally apply, except in the case of national defence restrictions. In municipalities located at the external borders of the European Union, such as Sillamäe, Narva and Narva-Jõesuu, third-country nationals residing in the Republic of Estonia do not really have the right to acquire immovable property. This is the case in the current law and will remain so according to the proposed draft. But it's only in the municipalities that I read.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U259	Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U260	Thank you. Dear Minister, This bill has caused quite a lot of fear among the people, because selling land for profit is still a one-off process, and it does not add value. Lithuania had been crying to extend this period by two years and to postpone the transitional period. But I ask you this: do you think that in the future, Estonians will have to buy back land from foreigners at three or four times the price?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U261	Thank you. I have read from the question that the author of the question has not read the law thoroughly. It is true that some Member States of the European Union have requested an extension of the transitional period. As far as I know, there are two: Hungary and Lithuania. Estonia did not do this. The reason for this is that, de facto, the purchase of land in Estonia by a foreign natural and legal person has always been possible and has been done. The law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property is more of such a signal or an estimated value, not a substantial value, because all foreigners who have wanted to acquire land in Estonia have been able to do so. Several procedures that have reached the table of the Minister for Agriculture during my term of office have also declined because this law has perhaps been a bit bureaucratic, has passed and other options have been used. For example, a piece of land of 40 hectares is divided into four cadastral units of 10 hectares and then privatized. Land parcels less than 10 hectares are not covered by the law and there are no restrictions. Sometimes this has been done in the form of a so-called acquisition of a legal person. Perhaps if there is a legal person whose share capital includes land, these legal persons can freely buy and sell the land in Estonia and that is what is done through the purchase of the legal person. So there have been no real obstacles so far. In itself, this law does not make anything easier. In my introductory speech, I said that the most important change is, on the contrary, the extension of restrictions to state land. Until now, these restrictions were only applicable to private legal entities in civil turnover when people sold the land, but the State sold the land without taking into account these restrictions. Now our proposal is to extend these restrictions to the sale of state land. So, on the contrary, we will make the terms of the sale stricter than they have been so far. There is certainly no need to fear that more Estonia will be sold after the entry into force of the new law than has been the case so far. This market has been free, and this law certainly does not change the country market in Estonia in the slightest.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U262	Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U263	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your last comment and answer to the question, you largely answered my question as well. But I'm gonna ask you a little bit more. During the preparation of this draft, quite a lot of attempts have been made to give the impression, through the press, that after the entry into force of this law, the Estonian farmer will lose his means of production, or land, and soon we will have nowhere else to cultivate the field. I believe you suggest that you be critical of such political claims, but maybe you have to repeat more broadly how it really is. In the light of this draft, will the Estonian farmer lose the land?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U264	Thank you for your question. No, I definitely won't. To better understand where we have come from and why we have come to this situation, a little history must be remembered and some facts repeated. First of all, at present, some 2.4% of Estonia's rural income is in the hands of foreign natural persons, foreign citizens. It's a small percentage. I have no reason to fear that now we are going to have mass land purchases in Estonia. In the case of legal persons, this assessment is very difficult because there is no precise picture. We do not know exactly who legal persons own legal persons, and where this capital goes. In the case of stock exchange companies, the circle of owners may change on a daily basis. So we don't have a full overview of legal entities, but it certainly doesn't exceed 5 to 6%. That's the situation right now. The breaking point, when the Estonian land policy decided in principle who had the right to buy land in Estonia, was in 1996 when the Riigikogu lawd the sale of free forest and arable land to legal persons. There, the interested party was largely farmers who had acquired either a farm or a production building in the course of the land, property and agricultural reform, but had not received any land there. The legal entities of farmers were interested in buying free agricultural and forestry land in Estonia as well. The decision of the Riigikogu was largely based on their proposals when the sale of free agricultural and forestry land in Estonia to legal persons was legalised. It was a breaking point. At present, there is no way to reverse it, nationalise it or try to find any other solutions. There are countries in the European Union where, for example, legal persons cannot acquire agricultural land. The closest such country is Sweden. So, yes, there are different approaches, but Estonia has chosen its own path, and today we have to go from where we have come from. However, the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property does not extend the possibilities for third-country persons or create a new epoch in the Estonian land administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U265	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U266	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will continue on this subject, which I raised on the first question. I understand that the country certainly has national defence constraints. Clearly, they exist and must be respected. When it comes to hectares, tens, hundreds, thousands of hectares, I understand that. But when it comes to acres of people who are not from the outside, who are born in Estonia, who are a citizen of another country, but who have legally settled here and who only wants to buy 20 centuries of hectares in a gardening cooperative? Wouldn't you personally be in favour of some kind of relief here, some kind of concession for those who want to buy a small piece of land in a gardening cooperative that is 10 to 20 per cent of a hectare?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U267	You asked for my personal opinion. I have to give you two answers. First of all, I will state the government's position. The government's view was that the law in force should be amended as little as possible, i.e. so much must be changed that, in terms of legal clarity, the law can be written more clearly by changing technical nuances and procedures. Secondly, it is necessary to change what follows from the accession of the OECD and the European Union and to leave everything else in the current law the same as it has been so far, perhaps as it was adopted in the past. That's what the government of the Republic was about. If the Riigikogu considers it necessary to process and amend the bill, the government basically does not mind. This is the competence of the Riigikogu. But we were guided by the fact that only the principles resulting from the accession of the European Union and the OECD should be changed. My personal view is that this law makes no sense at all, because it really does not limit anything. The practice has shown this. As I said, the Ministry of Agriculture has become aware that if an alien has had a desire to buy land, this process has still been completed outside the framework of this law. So, in fact, this law does not have a strong regulatory or guarantee force. Therefore, I do not see a very deep point in this. But since this has been Parliament's will and this law has still been in force, we in the government, when discussing these issues, found that it could continue to apply if changes were made here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U268	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U269	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I know that Article 10 of this law, as you also said, has literally been transposed from the old law. But in the light of your last sentences, how do you comment on the following? I myself recently held in Narva-Jõesuu a contract for the purchase and sale of an apartment, where one party was a citizen of the so-called third country, the Russian Federation, who has acquired an apartment in Narva-Jõesuuu. It was a notarized contract. How is it that the law is, but it doesn't regulate anything? Please comment! On the other hand, do you think it would be worthwhile in Narva-Jõesuu, which is now a very fast-growing resort where apartment houses are built and where there are "For Sale' and "Dlja Prodaži' signs above, to set this limit that would prevent citizens of the Russian Federation or people from the rest of the world from buying apartments and cottages there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U270	Thank you. If you have such information, I'm sure you could contact the defense police. There are plenty of ways to acquire a property outside this law in Estonia. I didn't notice if you were in the hall when I told you that it was possible, for example, to acquire land through the acquisition of a legal person and to do so across Estonia. That is what is done by using an alternative option to circumvent the regulations of this law. I'm afraid that's the case. This does not mean that these acquisitions are illegal, illegal. The other properties acquired using the roads are also all legally acquired. There's one thing I forgot to tell you. There is also a legal possibility under this law. It is possible to allow a third-country national to acquire immovable property on the territory of a municipality with national defence restrictions in a decision-making manner at the level of the government. There have been two cases like this. In one case, if I remember correctly, it was a good dentist and, in another case, a businessman when the government considered it necessary for an alien to become the owner of immovable property in a municipality with national defence restrictions. So this possibility exists in the current law, and that possibility remains in the law. However, these cases, which Mr Stalnukhin spoke of, can be resolved by decision of the Government of the Republic on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U271	Please, Mr Indrek Iron!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U272	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Your report turned out to be what we already discussed in the Commission, that in some respects it is like an empty bill, because national defence restrictions can be overcome by acquiring a legal person who buys this apartment property. In the case of free arable land or wooded land, the services of setting up firms shall be provided by enterprises engaged in three-year agricultural activities. The price is a little more expensive, but basically it's possible to buy and no problem. All of this is done because there is some fear that foreigners are buying up land in Estonia terribly. However, you yourself said that since the early 1990s, 2.4% of the land has gone into the hands of self-employed foreigners. I asked that in the committee. Have you, in the meantime, been able to find out how many of these 2.4% owners, in turn, are not so-called pure foreigners, but, for example, former coastal Swedes or other people who left Estonia in 1939-1941, who have received something back here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U273	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, You have very nicely identified the number of foreign self-owners of the land of 2.4%, but you have a cold attitude towards legal persons. Is it not necessary, however, to examine, specify or find a way to clarify the extent to which foreign legal entities own land? This is what the Estonian public would need to know, and it would also disprove any speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U274	Thank you. I don't take the property of legal persons coldly. I also said here that it is very difficult to get a full picture of it. We do not know which natural or legal person is behind one legal person or another, the ownership may be linked to several legal persons, there may be different parties and all this can change very quickly. It is really very difficult to get an overview. There's no reliable time either. If we take stock of the situation as of 1 January, by 3 March, the situation has already changed considerably. We want to know this, but the question is quite different: how thorough are the Estonian registers and how good we have a view of land ownership and the use of land. But this subject is more in charge of the Land Administration under the Ministry of the Environment. In fact, our data on landowners has also been obtained precisely because of the help and information provided by the Land Administration. The Ministry of Agriculture has no such information. It is predominantly the property of the Land Administration, the Land Cadastral and the Ministry of the Environment. But I know they've thought about it too. Work is underway to ensure that registers are more and more complete and that the overview is more comprehensive. However, I still think that it is probably extremely difficult to get a detailed overview of the ownership of legal persons at every moment and very unlikely to achieve 100% accuracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U275	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U276	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats take a different view of Bill 54. On the one hand, we share the concerns of farmers and foresters that the abolition of restrictions on the purchase of agricultural and forestry land by contracting countries in the European Economic Area and nationals of OECD Member States could increase the rental price of arable land in a situation where approximately 60% of the land used by farmers is rented. This figure is slightly higher than the EU average. However, the high rental price eats up the area payments, which we have several times lower than the European Union average. There may also be increased pressure on land prices. For example, with the average monthly wage in Estonia, we can buy less than a hectare of agricultural or forestry land, while Finns and Swedes can buy four hectares of arable land or two hectares of forest land in Estonia with their average monthly wage. Given the low purchasing power of Estonians, the increase in land trade may be expected in the near future due to the increased purchasing interest of foreign citizens. Possible increases in land rent and land price are economic facts. However, we do not share these conspiracy theories that the draft creates the prerequisites for foreign real estate developers to start buying up farmland and then mass change the land's purpose. The draft itself includes protection against such behaviour. There is also an important word for local governments that have a planning instrument at their disposal. On the other hand, account must be taken of the fact that the Riigikogu has ratified its accession to the OECD under the conditions set out in the draft. It's too late to be critical or to back off. That would be a good example of what's so typical of us. Questions are raised by the procedure for granting a land purchase permit and checking compliance to a foreign national or legal person. Perhaps it must be complicated and bureaucratic, but it places new tasks on county elders, municipalities, notaries, bailiffs and insolvency practitioners. For example, Chile is a member of the OECD. Where a land buyer comes from there, officials or authorities must be competent to assess the documents from Chile proving that the land buyer has been engaged in agriculture there for three years. Whatever the case with their county elders, adding responsibilities to municipalities is only correct if money is also allocated to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U277	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This draft law continues to delineate areas with national defence restrictions. At the same time, it continues to be stated that the real estate in these regions cannot be acquired either by a citizen of a contracting country of the European Economic Area or by a contracting country of the European Economic Area itself. You said that the acquisition of immovable property could also be authorised for certain important reasons. What does this decision-making process look like, would you like to introduce it in more detail?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U278	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting 54 amendments to the draft law by 22 June at 13:00. First reading of bill 54 is complete. Court is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U279	Thank you for your question. I haven't been able to explain it yet, but we're working on it. If it's possible to explain the owners' circle so subtlely, we'll be sure to give you that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U280	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U281	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Some representatives of farmers' organisations have complained that they have not been invited to work on this draft. That, in my opinion, is why there are so many fears about this bill. How did it actually work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U282	Thank you. I think that not all agricultural organisations and farmers were directly invited to the negotiating table. However, as far as I know, all the most important farmers' umbrella organisations have been involved. We have such good practice, and I believe that this has also happened with this draft. However, I do not think that this is the reason why the legend is spreading, as if this bill would greatly simplify the sale of land to foreigners in Estonia, and that, after that, foreigners will start buying up land on a massive scale. I think there are bigger and deeper reasons. I myself have been to introduce the principles of this bill to the most important farmers' organisations; I have personally been physically present at meetings of the Farmers' Confederation, the Chamber of Agriculture and the Farmers' Association. For this reason, I believe that all the key players have been negotiated. But the roots of this legend go back to an earlier period. In the run-up to the last elections in the Riigikogu, politicians declared that there was going to be a bill that would sell Estonia. In fact, some parties received such points in the program. It has been made a major political issue that is intended to intimidate someone and, to some extent, to get more votes in the elections. These attitudes have evolved as a result of long - term action. I'm terribly sorry about that. But I hope that after this law comes into force, everyone will calm down after a while if the ghost doesn't show up, and life will go on normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U283	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U284	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I know that you, like me, are not a lawyer, but can you see that interpretation when you break the law? Paragraph 2 of the Law provides that the law does not apply to immovable property acquired by inheritance. There is a possibility that, by inheritance, the 'third-country national' has received this immovable property. But if he sells it to a third-country national, will the law intervene or will it be possible to operate freely here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U285	Yeah, then the law breaks. There's no way we can or wouldn't put a hand in an inheritance. We expect these things to happen honestly. However, if a third-country national tries to transfer the immovable property to a third-country national, that law still applies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U286	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U287	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Aivar Koka, vice-chairman of the Rural Commission of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U288	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 54 on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property was discussed in two meetings of the Committee on Rural Affairs. On 31 May, it was decided to consensually refer the draft to the plenary session on 8 June and the rapporteur was appointed. On 6 June there was a substantive debate on the draft. At this meeting, Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Agriculture, Mr Toomas Kevvai, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Agriculture, and Mr Helve Hunt, Head of the Rural Development Department presented the draft and answered the questions of the members of the Commission. The Minister gave a brief overview of the draft. The draft was drawn up in particular due to the accession to the OECD and the seven-year transitional period ending on 1 May of this year agreed upon upon accession to the European Union. The purpose of the draft is to equalise citizens and legal entities of the European Union and OECD Member States with Estonian citizens and legal entities when buying land. The draft law extends the requirements to restrict the acquisition of real estate to the sale of state assets, while the restrictions laid down in the current law apply only to land in civil circulation. The committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft law 54 on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property be stopped at first reading. The committee decided by consensus to propose ten working days in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act for the submission of amendments to the draft 54. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U289	Thank you very much, Mr Aivar Kokk. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? Please, Mr Stalnukhin, as representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U290	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Often we have this ego outburst going on in this hall, and usually there are quite a few people listening, but given that there are quite a few people in this room today, I ask you to listen when I talk about this problem. Estonia has an area of 4.5 million hectares. I am talking about this problem, which is only 250 hectares for thousands of people. If I could show you the map of Narva (the same applies to Sillamäe and Narva-Jõesuu), I would draw your attention to the large number of gardening cooperatives. They're very visible on the map. There's 37 of them in the vicinity of the city. These data have not been updated for a few years, but two or three years ago there were 6200 plots of land, where, you know, they have been distributed during the Soviet era and their size is 6 to 12 centuries per hectare. When we reviewed the gardening cooperatives about seven years ago to explain why they were unable to make a repair, improve electricity supply or do other things, for example, to follow the orders of the Rescue Board, it turned out that about 15% of these parcels were actually empty. These are the parcels that the master cannot manage for ten centuries and would like to sell it. Now let's go to the situation in Narva. The population is 64000, of which 25000 are citizens of the Russian Federation. That's 40%. With this law, they have been forbidden to buy these parcels for many years. I understand that if somewhere in the Misso parish or on the seaside there is a whole square edge, 200 hectares, and someone comes from Venezuela and buys it, or if someone buys an island, it's clear that it could be very dangerous for our defence capabilities. What, though, is the danger for ten centuries per hectare? Yes, the Minister announced that twice the decisions have been taken, and one dentist and another has received generous permission from the Government of the Republic to acquire the land. Why do you even have to ask for it separately? What difference does it make if he's a dentist, a lawyer or a schoolteacher? He heals us, he teaches our kids, he works for the company. 6200 small plots of land! Looking at Narva on grounds of nationality and considering that there are 40% of Russian citizens, some 2500 small plots of land are either owned by foreigners or cannot be bought by foreigners. This means that the whole problem is 250 hectares. By the way, these parcels aren't together, they're all over the place in small pieces. We are not going to do anything about this bill right now. It is good that this bill is even here in the Riigikogu. But we are proposing amendments in which we say that ten centuries will not pose a threat to the state if these ten centuries come to the hands of a person born in Estonia, living here for the rest of his life, paying taxes, raising children here. I very much hope that the members of the coalition will support this amendment, which will improve the lives of gardening cooperatives, at least in Ida-Virumaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U291	Thank you. I would like to ask my colleague Kalev Kotkas, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U292	I have briefly mentioned here that this decision must be taken by the Government of the Republic as an individual decision. The decision of the Government of the Republic is shaped by the usual procedures under which all of this takes place and how the materials are prepared. It must go through the coordination circle of the ministries, then it will come to the government and the government will make a decision at its meeting. The decision is made in a perfectly normal manner. This is due to the government's day-to-day work and there are no exceptions here. It is not precisely regulated which authority may initiate the acquisition process of immovable property. This application may be submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture, but may also be submitted to another Ministry. The exact way this statement moves is already a matter of interaction between the authorities. But in the round of coordination, all ministries can express their opinion and make sure it is in the public interest and the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U293	Please, colleague Aare Heinvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U294	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. This law concerns agricultural land and forest land. Paragraph 2 (4) outlines one area in which the law does not apply, i.e. apartment property and building rights. If you include a defence aspect, does this also apply to areas with national defence constraints?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U295	What section were you talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U296	Paragraph 2 (4).
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U297	Paragraph 2 (4): 'This Act does not apply in the case of the acquisition of apartment property and building rights and in the case of the loading of immovable property by building rights. ' Yeah, you're right. Indeed, this law does not apply in the case of housing property, but in the case of all other properties. I'm sorry if I said wrong or you misunderstood! This law does not apply to the acquisition of housing and building rights. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U298	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U299	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I will specify my question. I was not so interested in this whole process of decision-making, but in who are the persons who can make an application in those areas with national defence constraints and who are those who are finally granted the right to acquire immovable property.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-08_U300	These are the two things that make the application and have the right to acquire. The application may in principle be submitted by anyone who is not prohibited from submitting the application. It's not regulated by law. But the Government of the Republic has the right to make an individual decision on the acquisition. The law doesn't make any special basis here. The Government of the Republic must be guided by the security of the state, and it must certainly carry out a risk analysis. The Ministry of the Interior and Defence was very involved in the development of this draft. We considered whether in law to rewrite in detail what this defenceal aspect really means and whether to create special procedures, so that this statement should definitely move either through the Ministry of the Interior or through the Ministry of Defence. But we found that the current regime was enough. The Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence are involved in preparing the Government's decision, and the Minister of Internal Affairs and Defence participates in a government meeting. The defence aspect is also adequately ensured through cooperation with these authorities. There are no other grounds in the law. The government will make a decision. If he sees that there is no threat of national defence and the applicant deserves an exception, the Government of the Republic will take this decision and grant permission for the acquisition of immovable property in these municipalities. Like I said, it's happened a couple of times.
