ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the first working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U2	Good fellows! Due to the resignation of Ülle Rajasalu, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, Maret Maripuu, joined today's Riigikogu and Paul-Eerik Rummo, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, joined today's Riigikogu. We have a pleasant opportunity and great honour to hear the oaths of office of the new members of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask the Riigikogu to take an oath to speak to Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U4	I ask for the oath of office in the Riigikogu speech chair Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U5	Dear Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U6	Good fellows! I ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu Chair! I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I hand over the draft amendment to § 48 of the Income Tax Act. This bill is about constructiveness and consistency. Continuity in the sense that the Social Democrats are already handing over this draft for the eighth time. This is a legislative amendment which would exempt from the special preferential tax the investments made by employers in the level training of their employees. Constructiveness is spoken of in the sense that, while the first six times it fell out of the procedure already at first reading, at the end of the previous working time of the Riigikogu, it passed the first reading by consensus and fell out of the procedure only due to the end of the working time of the Riigikogu. In order not to happen this time, we decided to give this draft to the proceedings in the first days of the four-year period. At the same time, we will certainly lend a hand to the coalition in order to quickly fulfil one of the electoral promises that have united almost all political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U8	Urmas Reinsalu speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U9	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association and the Estonian Reform Party, I hand over two useful draft laws which fell out of parliamentary procedure following the end of the previous parliamentary term: the draft law amending the Vocational Training Institution Act and the Private School Act and the draft law amending the utility model law, the Patent Act, the Industrial Property Law Foundation Act and the State Fees Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U10	Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I will submit a draft law on state liability to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The main purpose of this draft law is to regulate the compensation of damage caused by undue deprivation of liberty by the State in the State Liability Act, which has so far been governed by separate laws, and to remedy the shortcomings identified by the implementation practice. The volume of amendments related to the merger of laws made it necessary to present a new full text of the State Liability Act. This text is no stranger to many members of the Riigikogu. This bill has already been in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, but unfortunately, due to the end of the Riigikogu's term of office, it failed, although it passed the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-07_U12	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's go to the messages. First, the Board of the Riigikogu has registered the members of the Riigikogu as members of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party of Andre Sepa, Andrei Korobeinik, Tõnu July, Raivo Järvi and Imre Sooääre. Secondly, the Board of the Riigikogu has registered members of the Riigikogu as members of Ülo Tulik, Peeter Laurson, Andrus Saare, Juku-Kalle Raidi, Siim Kabrits and Liisa-Ly Pakosta Isamaa and Res Publica Union factions. Thirdly, eight parliamentary groups were formed yesterday: Estonia-Afghanistan, Estonia-Israel, Estonia-India, Estonia-Kazakhstan, Estonia-Moldova, Estonia-Germany, Estonia-Turkey and Estonia-Hungary parliamentary group. I wish all groups of Parliament the strength in their work. Fourthly, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the traditional 'Model for the European Parliament' will take place in this Chamber. In this regard, I ask you to empty the tables! Fifth, the President of the Riigikogu has called the opening sessions of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu. a on 11 April 2006 at 11 a.m. Sixthly, today, after the end of the plenary session, meetings will be held in this Chamber for the establishment of the Estonian-Armenia, Estonian-China, Estonian-Japan, Estonian-United Kingdom, Estonian-US and Estonian-Czech parliamentary groups. We're looking forward to active participation. Seventhly, today, after the end of the session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up a support group for renewable energy and energy savings, as well as a meeting to set up a support group for Kodukand, and there will be a meeting in the cafe of the Riigikogu to reconstruct the Tibetan support group. We also expect active participation. Good fellows, we'll do a presence check. 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 6. Good fellows, thank you. There are no items to be discussed in today's session. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.09 a.m.
