ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Let's do the presence check first. 40 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 61 missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U2	Let's start by answering questions. Ladies and gentlemen, since today we have eight questioners, I will authorise only two questions registered on the spot. First of all, Mr Tusi's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U3	Dear Minister, I remember that while there was a debate on health policy in this Chamber in the winter, Praxis raised the issue of extreme waiting times for access to specialist doctors very sharply. They were even prolonged in good economic years. Figuratively, the situation is that people have to wait months. Usually people say to someone who wants to put themselves in line that, for example, there are no numbers until the end of the summer and call again in the autumn. My question is, why can't people be registered in advance no matter how long, be it five or six months? Why, like artificially, are they trying to shorten the average waiting time, distort the overall picture and make the situation look better?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U4	Thank you. That's okay. That's okay. It's a matter of hospital administration, and it's purely for hospitals to decide. The Government of the Republic does not deal with the issue of queues in hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U5	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U6	Thank you. Got it! I didn't get an answer right now. But my point of clarification concerns the financing of health care. We know that the WHO, the World Health Organisation, pointed out very strongly that our health is not sustainable and in a few years' time the crisis will be very acute. I am asking: what has the government actually done to change the healthcare financing system? What has been done specifically to ensure that people's own participation in the purchase of prescription medicines does not reach 43%? This is the highest figure in the European Union! What has been done so that adults do not have to pay for 100% of their own dental care? Can't we at least compensate for something for the risk groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U7	During the economic crisis, a budget of 9 or 10% was cut in many areas of life, and ministers' wages were reduced by as much as 20% compared to the booming peak. However, the cut in medical costs was only 2.6%. What was possible at the expense of this is the question. The Honourable Riigikogu itself has decided that part of the sickness benefits are now compensated by entrepreneurs, employers, this is no longer just an object of funding the health insurance fund. As a result, much more funds have been made available for treatment purposes. If the money that was now used for treatment had still to be paid out for sickness benefits, the cost of treatment would have had to be reduced considerably more due to the economic downturn. Every country can afford a medical system that taxpayers can pay for. I quote the honourable university professor Tiina Talvik, who has said that in each country the medical team is prepared to provide medical services at least four times as much as taxpayers in that country are able to pay for this service. But I am glad that every year we are increasingly able to pay off this necessary service. The prosperity of society develops, and medicine develops.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U8	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U9	Good Prime Minister! To say again that the Riigikogu decided is still demagogy, because we know that only the coalition was in favour of these cuts, the opposition was not. I would also like to remind you that we have cut the budget of the Health Insurance Fund considerably more than we have in all other areas. And two, I didn't ask you about the sickness benefits. My question touched on this once again, when, now that we are talking about great economic growth and unheard of development, we will start to compensate people more for the money for medicines so that we are not the worst place in Europe to compensate for the price of prescription medicines. And why don't we start paying adults for a little dental care? All countries are compensating for this to some extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U10	It's a matter of medical policy choices. But you are probably aware that part of the cost of medicines is also compensated in Estonia, and this part has increased year after year. I do not have this statistics very correctly, but I would argue that in the last five years this increase has been at least 30 to 40%. And here I am certainly not wrong in the sense that I am saying that this growth is greater than it has actually been. In my opinion, there is no reason to curse the ground floor of the Estonian medical system and try to make it dust and waste. Our patients' satisfaction with the medical system is now the highest in the European Union. And this system must also be assessed from the point of view that our medical team and the health administration have been able to achieve a sufficiently exemplary result with relatively modest resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U11	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U12	The next question is from colleague Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U13	Thank you. Mr Aaviksoo! On 20 April, you answered Jaak Allik's question here about how part of Narva and Tallinn schools' requests for application of § 21 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which is to enable them to continue teaching in less than 60% of the Estonian language. It is worthy of recognition that you have decided to approach the matter pedagogically and not politically. You said that each application must be analysed individually and then a decision must be made. You also stressed that it is important to avoid a situation where the quality of knowledge is affected by the transition to education in Estonian. Now your officials have thoroughly analysed all requests. Can you answer me what results the Ministry has achieved and what your decision will be?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U14	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the Ministry of Education and Research has thoroughly analysed these applications and visited all the schools that were mentioned in the application submitted by the Tallinn and Narva Council. The materials are not yet fully together for the meeting of the Government of the Republic, and therefore I cannot say the final position of the Ministry of Education and Research, but I would like to summarise it with the following words. First, the main motivation for submitting such applications pursuant to § 21 (3) of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act was not ready for transition from 1 September 2011. Indeed, in different schools it can be felt to varying degrees, but in general there are quite similar problems with the lack of teachers. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, there is a lack of educational resources, and it was also pointed out that the language skills of some students are not enough to continue their studies in the prescribed volume, or 60% in Estonian. At the moment, I agree with the decision to grant an exception to upper secondary schools for adults for consideration by the government. Indeed, the language skills of many adult students are not sufficient and thus their access to education would be reduced for objective reasons. It is also planned to grant an exception to the German Gymnasium in Tallinn on the basis of an external agreement. The problems of other schools are likely to be solved in cooperation with the Ministry and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U15	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U16	Thank you. I agree that these problems can be solved, but I doubt that they will be resolved by 1 September this year. In particular, I am concerned about the lack of language skills of students. In my opinion, you underestimate this problem by saying that the language skills of some students do not allow you to study in Estonian. I believe that this is more of a problem for the majority, but a very large proportion of students. The Estonian language level of students graduating from the 9th grade of Russian schools is relatively low. Your colleagues, Mr Küttis and Mr Irene Käosaar, also recently in the Riigikogu, stated that this problem is likely to exist and that the result of this reform will not be known until 2014. Don't you think it's a little irresponsible for three years to experiment with students on how it goes?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U17	There is indeed a problem. The Ministry of Education and I hope that schools have been sufficiently aware of this since 1993, or 18 years. I also note that a lack of knowledge of the national language is a problem even if you switch to Estonian for only 40 or 50%, as many schools have requested. In this case, too, there are problems with understanding in the subjects where teaching takes place in Estonian. However, neither the Republic of Estonia nor these specific schools are a unique problem. We have excellent experience in most of the schools that have conducted teaching in Russian so far, not to mention the experiences of many countries in this area: students who have recently settled in the country and who do not speak the local language have been able to continue their studies in the national language for a year or two after their arrival in that country. I do not believe that cooperation and with the support of the Ministry of Education and Research can solve this problem in Estonia. Finally, the transition to 60% will not take place on 1 September 2011, but within three years from 1 September, we should reach the target set. So those who start studying on September 1, when they complete their studies in 2014, would have to have 60% of their studies in Estonian by that time, or in three years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U18	I would now like to ask two questions registered on the spot. First, please, my colleague, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U19	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! First of all, you are not the Minister of Education for the first time, and you will certainly be very familiar with matters much more than you are trying to show today. That 18 years isn't really true. The state has repeatedly sent a message to society during different coalitions that this date has been postponed. Very different parties have changed these dates and informed the schools that this is not urgent. However, if you come to the question, I would ask you for a clarification. At the meeting with the Commissioner for National Minorities, a representative of the OSCE, you mentioned as one way of resolving the problem of education in the Russian language in the Republic of Estonia that the Russian Federation will finance these schools. Is this the general government's position, and how does it fit into our current education policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U20	A brief comment on the "deferral" issue. Indeed, the Riigikogu has postponed the deadline, but this objective has never been called into question. It has been postponed to give time to move towards a clear goal. Indeed, the Estonian state has not rushed at government or parliamentary level, but rather, on the contrary, received as much as possible Russian schools. By now, however, the Ministry of Education and Research is convinced that we are starting to reach our goal. As has already been said, it will be finally born in 2014. Now the OSCE Commissioner for National Minorities. Tallinn German Gymnasium operates on the basis of a transnational agreement, as a result of which the graduates of this secondary school receive a certificate of completion of the German Gymnasium, i.e. a paper on the completion of the ancillary tour, alongside the Estonian Gymnasium's graduation certificate. I think this is a good example of substantive cooperation between countries. The aim of this school is not to be maintained by the German State. This is an Estonian school on Estonian soil and for the residents of Estonia, but in order to deepen mutual understanding between the two countries. To the same extent, I consider agreements with other countries possible in order to gain deeper knowledge of the culture, history and language of individual countries. And certainly such a school would not only be for young people speaking Russian as their native language, but for all Estonian residents. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U21	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U22	Thank you. You said that for almost 20 years it was known that this transition would come. Why, then, has the state failed to bring the teaching of the Estonian language to the necessary level? We are still in a situation where graduates of basic school in Russian schools are unable to obtain high-quality education in Estonian. However, if we are already in such a situation, would it still not be wise to grant exceptions to some schools if they really do have a language problem? Perhaps urgent measures should be taken, the problem of language skills solved within a few years, and then the purpose of this law should be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U23	It is very difficult for me to understand the logic that in most schools the transition takes place without any problems for all students to have acquired language skills, but individual schools in Narva and Tallinn decide within three days with the support of their councils that their children will not be able to do so. It seems to me that this is not a substantive approach. At the same time, I admit that in all schools, it is certainly the task of individual pupils who are more difficult to transfer and of providing support to them, but to a certain extent the Ministry of Education and Research. Of course, we want to help local authorities to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U24	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Actually, it's not as black and white as you serve. I know for a fact that some of the schools that did not apply for this authorisation also have major problems with the language skills of both teachers and students. But my question is actually different. This concerns Paragraph 21 (3). None of the laws provides for a mechanism under which the government should take the relevant decision. When I sent this question to Mr Lukas, your predecessor, I received an empty answer on the need for a transition. My question is: is this legislative provision purely decorative, or is the only way to make a political decision that essentially excludes the choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U26	Indeed, § 21 (3) does not give the Government of the Republic an explicit basis of consideration. Nevertheless, this does not mean that the government has no discretion. This is based on general education and language policies and corresponding laws. I believe that's what the government has to do with it. It would be very superficial, perhaps even malicious, to understand my explanations today as a black and white approach. Let me remind you that I confirmed: in the case of three schools, we are considering granting an exception to the government on the basis of objective circumstances, which, in my opinion, is best suited to the interests of both the learners and the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U27	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U28	I would now like to ask the next question, Mr Borodichi's question to Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U29	Good chairman of the sitting! Good minister! Violence in our relationship is one of the most worrying issues in our society lately. The Ministry of Social Affairs is known to have prepared this year's development plan to combat close relationship violence. From this question: is this issue still a personal priority for both the Ministry and you and, if so, what measures will you take to contain the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U30	Thank you for your question. If you unravel this development plan to reduce violence, you will see that the Ministry of Justice has control over the vast majority of them. It is true that the part concerning children has been written in many ways together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, and it is more accurately reflected in the development plan for children and families, which is currently in the coordination circle between ministries and is also publicly available for participation in the Web.ee. I would advise you to read it there and, if necessary, to put forward your proposals, if you wish. You can certainly see that activities involving children, not only through violence, but especially prevention activities, have a very strong focus on the Ministry. We have already received feedback from some ministries. Some ministries have asked for an extension, but they are generally very positive. I very much hope that the development plan for children and families will be adopted shortly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U31	Please, Mr Borodich, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U32	Thank you. I do not know if you know that this spring our group launched a draft law to strengthen the fight against close relationship violence. This draft envisaged specific measures to contain the problem, such as monitoring or checking compliance with the protection order issued by the court. Unfortunately, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided by the coalition to reject this draft. If the issue is also a priority for your ministry, why are specific measures rejected? And what is your personal position on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U33	That's what you'll have to ask when the Minister of Justice answers you here. As regards, in particular, the protection order and other measures relating to the development plan for reducing violence, these are the analysis and control of the Ministry of Justice, as this is a measure which is clearly still of a punitive nature. The restraining order and the associated electronic surveillance are very direct breaches of the fundamental right of a person and can only be applied by a decision of the Court. Unfortunately, I do not have with me the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that was submitted to the Government of the Republic. But I suggest you communicate with the Justice Department. Electronic surveillance, limitation of fundamental rights of persons, development plan to reduce violence, all of this is their competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U34	Please, Mr Borodich, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U35	Thank you. In my question, I also asked for your personal assessment of whether the proposal that we have tabled in our draft could be justified and would its approval contribute to resolving the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U36	I have not read your draft with this look to give it a very thorough assessment. As I said, I believe the Ministry of Justice gave a very thorough explanation as to why they did not support the draft. As far as the protection order is concerned, measures of a different punitive nature can also be introduced in the current judicial area. And the Court must certainly base every decision on what is practical and possible to make, so that the violation of fundamental rights of people is not excessive. A restraining order is reasonable in certain cases, but in certain cases it must be taken into account that both parents have the right to communicate with their children. So it is not very practical to consider such a widespread ban. However, it is reasonable to consider that, if such a measure exists in the legal area, in certain cases its use cannot be ruled out.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U37	As I said, we have many questions today, which is why we now have two questions on the ground. First Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I am of the opinion that the measure in your reply is not a punitive measure. This is a preventive measure so that violence is not committed. But that's it. The analysis done by Kadri Soo since 2010 is very comprehensive on your website, and the figures published there are still very worrying. The interesting thing is that on 6 June, when the Minister of Justice answered a question here, he said that in 2003 the percentage of non-notification of close relationship violence was 72, according to the latest figures was 77. What do you say we all go uphill, why don't people trust our country and their problems don't work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U39	I didn't say anything about us going uphill or downhill. However, once again, if we mention this punitive or preventive measure, it is a punitive measure of a preventive nature. The aim is, yes, to prevent a new crime from being committed, but the fact that such a measure was imposed is a punishment. As a lawyer, I believe you agree. If you come to what parents can or should do, this same development plan for children and families will focus on raising parental skills and also on raising people's awareness. One program that supports parenthood called Triple P is planned to be implemented in Estonia. I believe that, above all, the question is whether people know their rights and whether they dare to report problems. We also have various anonymous information lines, such as the children's helpline and other crisis counselling phones, so that such cases can be reported. If you don't dare say your name, you can anonymously report that something has happened in your neighbor's home, for example, that may suggest domestic violence. It can also be checked by a child welfare officer on the basis of an anonymous tip and then do something about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U40	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! My question concerns the same-sex life together. If people of the same sex live together and they have a child, it's a family. The child may be self-born, may be adopted, depending on which sex these partners are of. The child still grows in the family, sees how it behaves, and acquires similar patterns of behavior. If Daddy gives Daddy a good-night kiss, then the child will also take the appropriate course of action. It's not just family violence, but it still affects the child. My question is that such a life together can be a negative or positive phenomenon, depending on whether or not our aim is to increase the population. This child may have been reproduced from one of them, but it may also have been born and brought up in an asocial family, for example. Should family policies have a positive or negative view of such communities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U42	Thank you for your question. I assume you did not mean by your question that when people live together and have either adopted or had a child through assisted reproduction, such families should begin to take children away. Somehow that's what the question sounded like, but I'm assuming it wasn't meant to be. I hope I misunderstood. As far as family relations are concerned, there is a family law in Estonia which states very clearly in § 1 that marriage is concluded between a man and a woman. The right of individuals to adopt, however, is not lost. And if someone else lives with the person, but the person has adopted someone in the past, there is no immediate need for the state to intervene in this family relationship or association, unless, of course, we know or receive a hint that this is family violence. If there is no domestic violence and the rights of children or children are guaranteed, I do not consider it necessary for the state to intervene if a person has a child fully legally adopted or if he or she is a biological parent.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U43	Thank you very much, Minister. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U44	The next question is from my colleague, Urve Palo, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! 62000 unemployed people have been registered in Estonia and nearly 65% of them do not receive any financial support from the unemployment fund. If you look at that percentage, it means about 40,000 people. These include 15% of the unemployed, or almost 10000 people, who receive an unemployment benefit of EUR 64 per month from the unemployment fund within nine months. My question to you is: will it be possible for a total of 50,000 people, 40,000 of whom do not receive any financial support from the unemployment fund and 10000 will receive nearly 64 euros per month, to focus on the training, retraining and job-seeking activities included in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic? Without money, it is not possible to keep alive, and looking for work on an empty stomach is also unthinkable. As Prime Minister, you are certainly concerned about this and have wondered what a solution might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U46	First of all, I do not agree with your argument that 50000 people do not receive any support from the unemployment fund. They can! Even if they participate in retraining, in further training, they also receive support from the unemployment fund. If an unemployed person no longer receives unemployment benefit because the corresponding period has already expired, this does not mean that he does not receive any benefit from the unemployment fund. Travel allowance is also a benefit received from an unemployment fund, not to mention a salary benefit or a wage supplement from an unemployment fund, when trainees receive training fees, all of which are benefits paid from an unemployment fund. I believe that it is not the unemployment fund that should start creating jobs. Job-creating investors and investments come at least at present to countries where public finances are in good condition. And even though our unemployment rate is still high, Eurostat also noted in its latest statistical analysis that unemployment has fallen most among the 27 countries of the European Union over the last year, precisely in Estonia. The situation is improving and the fact that the situation is rapidly improving certainly has been a grateful part of the unemployment fund and its benefits. The solution could certainly not be the one that exists today in some European Union countries, where benefits are paid for at least three years, but they have survived beyond force and are now cutting the period of payment by at least half.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U47	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U48	Thank you very much. My concern is that many do not have the financial support to buy food so that they can actually retrain. People are forced to take part in training and retraining and look for work, to leave Estonia. Their return is already under great question. My question is: has the Government Union thought about fulfilling its promises in 2009 that unemployment benefit, which is currently 64 euros per month, could be half the minimum wage established in Estonia, just as the European Social Code also provides for? In 2009, it was said that this promise would be honoured in 2013, and I ask you if this is what you are planning. I didn't read it out of the government union agreement. And the other half of the question: have you thought that this could be done earlier, since the beginning of next year? And maybe this period, nine months, could be extended to give people time to really look for a job?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U49	Depends, of course, on how the economy develops, on how the state receives funds to pay additional benefits, on whether or not it will be possible to increase unemployment benefits sooner or later. All unemployed people also receive income support if they have indications to receive it. And if the unemployment fund pays off the training, it is a very significant aid. As a reminder, when you, Urve, left the government: the last draft of the Minister of Finance that he brought to government was a state budget strategy, and according to this strategy, the social security funds should have been in deficit at EEK 13.6 billion this year. Following this strategy, we would now be halfway or even further than those countries that are currently experiencing a serious financial crisis. We did not go this way and therefore we are not burdened with huge loans and we do not have to spend 6% of GDP on these loans, as in some countries or 3% as in the European Union on average. We spend 0.2% of GDP serving loans. This means that we can spend much more money on education, on culture, on increasing the defence capacity of our country. I think it's a dead end. If we should learn anything from this financial crisis, that is what is the most important lesson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U50	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U51	Thank you very much. I don't think it's appropriate to scare Greece or Spain. Why do you not compare us to Finland or Sweden, where people are highly respected and people do not leave their country even at the time of unemployment? But you still didn't answer my question. When the government unilaterally adopted the Employment Contracts Act in 2009 and removed from it, among other things, the obligation previously agreed with employees' representatives to pay unemployment benefit half of the minimum wage in Estonia, the promise was made to implement it in 2013 and it is also included in the Act. My question is: are you really planning on fulfilling this promise and the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U52	As you know very well, the law has not been amended. And if the law has not been amended and the law has a specific deadline, then it must be concluded that yes, I suppose we are planning to comply with the law. Suspicion of the government's reverse desire is not very beautiful. However, if I do not want to call out evil now and I believe that such a scenario certainly does not have economic opportunities, then no one can be paid over-capacity benefits. I don't like the fact that you're putting some kind of threat in my mouth with Greece or Spain! In particular, I do not like the comparison with Spain at all, because I do not consider the financial problems in Spain to be significant enough to frighten you here. However, I would like to remind you that it is precisely the cuts packages that are currently being discussed very lively in Finland too. It would also be worth looking at the Gulf's neighbours, and if you look at them, it turns out they're doing the same thing we've been dealing with since 2009.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U53	I would now like to ask two questions registered on the spot. First of all, my colleague, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U54	Thank you. Prime Minister! The countries you are talking about actually care about their people, they do not cut so much at the expense of people. And from here on out: you love to highlight Estonia in the European Union's rankings and you probably know the fact that we are also high on the rankings with youth unemployment. It is very sad to watch our young people graduating from high school, vocational school or even high school are eager to get to work, but maybe they have to be out of work for years. That is my question: what are you planning to do or what is the government coalition planning to do to launch measures aimed at extra young people to reduce their high unemployment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U55	I do not want to start correcting the statistics you have submitted again, but I am still forced to do so. Indeed, in the first and second quarters of 2010, youth unemployment was one of the highest in the European Union: 40 and 39%. Today, youth unemployment in Estonia is more or less at the average level of the European Union and this twenty percent unemployment is completely correlated with youth unemployment in other European Union countries, given the high level of unemployment in general. The assessment of youth unemployment is a very difficult task for statisticians at all. If, for example, we try to compare the countries of southern Europe with those of the North, we find it surprising that youth unemployment is primarily a concern of the Nordic countries, not so much of the countries of southern Europe. The lack of comparability of this statistics is mainly due to the fact that in northern culture, including Estonian culture, students identify themselves as active people in the labour market and, if they do not have a job, they say they are unemployed. At the same time, students in a number of other European Union countries, such as Austria and southern European countries, do not tend to identify themselves as unemployed. We have implemented measures specifically aimed at young people. For example, we have invited young people back to the university - Jaak Aaviksoo can talk about this for a very long time - who have abandoned their studies in their own time. We have invited 500 people back to vocational schools and we intend to continue implementing these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U56	I would like to ask you now for the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U57	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I would like to continue on the subject raised by the questioner. Indeed, there are particularly sensitive groups among the long-term unemployed who need to be dealt with separately. Just to clarify that in Eurostat, however, we are declaring young people under the age of 26 who are not working or studying. So the claim that we have students as unemployed is not true, at least in the case of Eurostat data. But I'm interested in people with disabilities. It is quite clear that it is extremely difficult for some disabled adult person who is not on disability or special pension to find work without special support, especially if he or she does not live in a centre. This very painful issue has certainly been discussed by the government and you have developed specific measures. One solution that was also proposed during the elections is the social tax exemption. Do you have any special measures for these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U58	It's a direct question. When hiring these people, the state pays 100% to adapt the job to the needs of a disabled person. It certainly promotes the employment of disabled people. And there are other measures. However, your approach to youth unemployment is not competent. Maybe you should do the statistical analysis properly, then you'll come to exactly the same conclusion as I do. Your approach is obviously simplified. Under no circumstances do I want to say that youth unemployment is not a problem in Estonia. This is certainly a very serious problem, and the European Commission has also pointed out that Estonia should implement very targeted measures aimed at the long-term unemployed and also at reducing youth unemployment. This is what the government is doing, and I state the fact that the sharpness of this problem has decreased twice over the past year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U59	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U60	The next question is from my colleague, Mailis Reps, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U61	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Education and Science! You have already talked about the reform of higher education or the package of innovations and also offered your steps to the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. The main criticism that came from a number of organisations, including the Student Associations, was that you are talking about introducing free higher education as soon as possible, but you have pushed the implementation of study grants to 2015. Is it possible to talk about free higher education in situations where a young person cannot learn full - time because he or she is forced to work alongside learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U62	Thank you for your question. The words "free higher education" can, of course, be interpreted widely. Recently, we have read an opinion in which, to put it plainly, more or less confirmed: if you want us to learn, you will also have to pay us a salary. Education, including higher education, cannot be dealt with in this way. Free education, including free higher education, means that tuition is not charged for teaching distributed by one or the other educational institution. This is the most traditional concept and means that it does not involve obligations for a student, but someone still has to pay for this free teaching. In general, it's a schoolgiver or a country or whatever it's arranged for. Now for the living expenses. In the same way as for attending comprehensive school and vocational training institutions, these costs should primarily be borne by the student's family. It should be understood that up to the age of 26, the family is obliged to support them when the child is studying full-time. I am of the opinion that needs-based support should be an opportunity to be launched together with the reform of higher education. I hope that we will be able to put forward proposals that are supported by the government and also by the Riigikogu. There is no such agreement yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U63	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U64	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. One part of the package that you proposed, which at least raised questions in me, was the proposal to start funding universities as a general package. I remember when we discussed these issues together earlier, when you were the Rector, you had the same position. Then the government did not find it right to lose the training order in this form. It was thought that this would deprive us of the levers to direct young people to learn the specialties that the country particularly needs. If a decision is made to take direct levers away from the state in order to direct young people to one or another, perhaps a less popular profession, are you sure that universities will still leave enough places in negotiations with the country for all the important directions of the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U65	The issue of the interests of students and the needs of the state is one of the central issues in the organisation of higher education. The concept of today's world is more or less that it must be based on the students' desire to acquire a specialty, a profession, and that this desire of a young person could be the basis for planning a higher education system. Nearly all developed countries have reached this understanding sooner or later, simply because in a rapidly developing world it is very difficult to reliably predict what skills are most needed in the future. Leaving a choice for a student or student, we not only trust him but also leave him or her with responsibility for the right choice, without giving him or her national custody on this matter. I fully share the concern that these choices may not always be in line with the best knowledge of needs, which can still be predicted to some extent. And these predictions are being made. In such a case, it is wise for the state to use positive discrimination instruments, i.e. to create additional incentives to acquire the necessary specialties, for example by offering scholarships or attractive traineeships or learning schemes, guaranteeing a job for students in these disciplines or otherwise motivating them, without preventing young people from realising their interests in another profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U66	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Let's go to a specific area. A few questions ago, we addressed the issue of Russian-speaking schools, but we take it more broadly: we have a shortage of teachers. You are certainly familiar with the very sad statistics on the average age of teachers in one subject or another and the number of young teachers who have just graduated. I'm sure you knew, as rector of the university, that for quite several years in a row, we received English-language graduates one or two a year. Since 2012, when you implement general agreements with universities on general funding, what are the concrete measures that will guide young people to choose a teacher as their specialty?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U68	Teachers' theme is certainly a central issue in education. Once again, the problems associated with the teaching institution have been central to education in the past and, unfortunately, it must be acknowledged that so far neither the state nor universities nor the wider public have been able to ensure that the teacher institution is developed in such a way that it meets our wishes and needs for the survival of the nation. What are these measures going to be, in particular, I am indebted to that answer. There will certainly be specific objectives in institutional agreements with universities to promote teacher training. In my opinion, it is a disgrace that a high school for teacher training is ashamed of its birth story. As I have said, Athens, near the Emajõgi River, fell short of the challenge of creating a strong educational faculty. She got tired before teacher training achieved the results expected in the establishment of the Faculty of Education. I believe that you will hear specific answers to this question some time later, not today from this speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give you the opportunity to put forward a question registered on the ground. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U70	Thank you. Dear Minister of Education, First of all, I would like to congratulate you on what you have done. You have been in office for a few months and there are already many ideas and proposals that need to be changed in your administration. I know from my own hands that it takes a lot of courage and will. So sincere recognition! Some ministers have been in office for four years or more, but they don't hear any suggestions or ideas from them. But my question is about the reform of higher education that you are planning. I am also concerned that many of our students are forced to work just to keep themselves alive. The New Yearbook on Youth Monitoring also shows that this is a major problem. This shows that the sad consequences of combining learning and work are students' health problems, stress, often giving up social life. Full-time and full-time students often benefit from this at bedtime.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U71	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U72	My question is: would you still be willing to consider introducing a certain scholarship for students with nominal time, not only on a needs-based basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U73	Scholarships could be of two types and grants of one type. Grants could be needs-based, be defined as closely linked as possible to other instruments of the social system, so that those who need really receive the best possible support. Secondly, scholarships for students studying in so-called priority disciplines. A good example is currently the United Defence Forces Educational Institutions, where all cadets are provided with public support in addition to national maintenance. And a third, scholarship dependent on learning success. All three instruments need to be fully developed. But as far as the social coping of students is concerned, I am afraid that we will not make much progress if we generalise over a reasonable rate, or say that the students hold it or the other, the students do not hold it or the other, the students are starving. It might as well be said that some students spend too much beer or other pleasures. A closer look should be made at who has the problem of what this problem is and how to solve it, and who is dealing with a slightly irresponsible extension of childhood, which I do not think is justified by the cost of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U74	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U75	Now for the last, very brief question to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! There is free movement of labour in the European Union, free movement of pensions, free movement of patients. And it is not important because no one likes the doctors of their country, but it is simply not useful to carry out operations in Estonia, for example, for which there is not enough market. The relevant specialists simply do not retain their qualifications and if such operations are performed in excess of a certain amount elsewhere, they can be sent elsewhere. The problem is that the insurance cover of an Estonian person is not at all comparable to that of a German person, for example, and if the Commission sends our person to Germany for an operation, this patient will spend the money of several other patients. How will this problem be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U77	A very quick and short answer. Indeed, the directive on the free movement of patients was adopted only a few months ago in the European Union and countries have an obligation to bring national law into line with it within three years. We are working on this in our house, and we hope that this draft will reach Parliament's Chamber as soon as possible. Then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U78	Thank you very much. Our Question Time is over. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for asking questions. Thank you, members of the government, for your answer. We won't be expecting you here next Wednesday. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U79	Good Riigikogu, good day! We will begin the ninth working week session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U80	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I have the honour of handing over a draft on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, entitled 'the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure'. I've been talking about this speaker before that the law on surveillance, now soon all the criminal proceedings in the Code of Criminal Procedure, has been subject to constitutional barricade since 1994. Some of these cases are, in fact, those which, as an exception to the Constitution, are allowed to be sanctioned only by the Estonian State Court. The purpose of the draft act is to supplement the new version of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will be in force on 1 January 2012, in so far as it is possible, in a simple language, to eavesdrop persons, in fact, to eavesdrop any classified information only with the permission of the court, and to give some exceptional 24 hours of action to the executive power, it is a violation of the Constitution and of the fundamental rights of our citizens. Certainly, however, we do not want to interfere with the work of our research institutions in any way with this bill, and we are also proposing a solution for how the same necessary surveillance action could be carried out in an operational and rapid manner, without violating the fundamental rights of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U81	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted one draft law and the Management Board decides on this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu accepted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. A draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy and the Law on administrative cooperation, which was initiated on 13 June, was appointed to it by the Rural Commission. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence. There were 87 delegates registered as present, 14 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, on 14 June, we failed to discuss the draft amendment to the Land Tax Act, which exempts land tax, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Let's continue the negotiations. I'm asking for Eldar Efendiev's chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U83	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us the new text of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act exempting homeowners from land tax, which has been submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Sven Sester, may be congratulated...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Go on, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U85	... who, for a long time, has defended this bill, knowing that he is waiting for the maximum number of uncomfortable questions from the opposition. It may be said that he was able to carry out his task, but the question still arises as to whether the proposed draft text fulfils all the objectives on which it is addressed. The second question also arises: why were the questions to which the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs found a positive answer not resolved in the wording of the draft? Was it because of a short period of time, was it quick, or was it overlooked? This situation gave the opposition the opportunity to consider such a text to be a cull and to think that everything that has been proposed is a planned tactic, given that the coalition has a majority in the Chamber, and everything is only external rhetoric. In short, with regard to the draft text, there are many questions for which there is no reasoned answer. But just in line. The first text of the draft text was criticised so strongly that the initiators had to rewrite the text completely through the Commission and only one line left to the deadline for the implementation of the law. And, of course, the idea of a bill remained. The whole text was amended and this quite new text was presented to us immediately for discussion in the Chamber without being able to discuss it in the political groups. As a result, the opposition groups had no opportunity to present their vision and make proposals and improvements. In doing so, the opposition had been deprived of the opportunity to improve the text and it was not important whether the opposition was in principle in agreement or opposed. The coalition withdrew to present a very new text at first reading, to give time for improvements, to carry out a second reading and to discuss the proposals made. One could say that the coalition, most of the hall, ignored the opposition and demonstrated that it was not going to count on him in this Chamber. What else is troubling? The draft law does not lay down compensation arrangements or mechanisms. The state's commitment looks like a possible charity. Yes, that is what the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Monetary Commission were talking about. However, the Minister for Finance is not sure about this and assessed the first and second texts critically enough. Why did the initiators not include the obligations of the state or the compensation mechanism in the draft? You can only ask and speculate about it. Nor is there any certainty that compensation, if any, will not be one-off and will not end with it. In short, the question of compensation remained between the earth and the sky. Even at first reading, the initiators said that compensation would be necessary, but this was not found in the new text. Nor is it understandable from which sources the State intends to pay compensation, if of course this is done. This situation raises the question, and again speculation, that there may be a need to expect a new tax increase in other areas. There is another question relating to the area of coordination. I mean local governments. It turns out that the draft concerns all local authorities, but has not been coordinated with them. There was no time! This has reduced the possibility for local governments to participate in the creation of the law. The local authorities found an opportunity to formulate their critical position, but their voice did not reach the coalition's ears. The conclusion can be drawn: the coalition, which has a majority in the Chamber, does not intend to count on anyone and does things the way they like it. Is this democracy? I wouldn't want a tendency to emerge from such a specific case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U86	Thank you very much, Mr Eldar Efendiev. My colleague Marika Tuusi of the speech chair, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U87	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The economics of the University of Tartu, Viktor Trasberg, published an opinion story in Postimees a few weeks ago, where the exemption of the homeland under IRL was called neobolshevism and the rhetoric of the IRLs was identified with the former slogan of the Russian Bolsheviks, which contained "Free Land for peasants!'. Or maybe we'll remember the 40s when it was announced that the land would become the property of the entire nation. Everyone was allowed to use up to 30 hectares of land free of charge and also allowed to change unfair taxes and lighten the tax burden on the working population. Interestingly, the majority of the Reform Party's group has gone along with this socialist approach, whose members usually criticise the slightest idea of any redistribution, especially free distribution. But since the Reform Party is fighting for the interests of the richest society, it does not hurt the village, and the big businessman or banker also needs every cent saved by the state. Which is because we don't have enough money to pay rescue teams or ambulance drivers a living wage. But now, in detail, at first reading, I asked the Commission's rapporteur, Sven Sester, why the IRL, which includes many local government leaders, former and current municipal elders, wants to worsen the financial situation of the municipalities. And I got the answer that this money stays in a person's pocket and that local government leaders are most concerned about people. Well, let's see what it's really like to worry about it. Take, for example, the budget of Jõgeva municipality, because I am directly involved in this region. The land tax was abolished there from the beginning of this year, just before the elections. This year's receipts, i.e. income, if you look at the budget on the municipality's website, have been reduced to nearly 200,000 kroons due to the abolition of land tax. There is, of course, a reduction in costs. So let's see what's reduced. Maintenance of public utility units, minus 13,6. Today we read in press releases that yes, this money must definitely be increased. Support for sports events, This list is, of course, longer. So I'm going to ask you again, where is the concern for the human being, as I was answered? Municipalities do not provide some services, or this money will be cashed in at the expense of other citizens. If it was hoped that by losing the land tax the masses would register in Jõgeva, only a few people, six or seven people, as can be seen, have done so this year. We know there aren't many new entrants in Harku either. After all, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi said that all those who have now signed up to Harku municipality are so-called fake transactions that do not actually bring in the money. There have also been more problems in Jõgeva municipality, because a person actually lives in a city or a village apartment building, but he has registered in a rural house, and many messages and letters, including election announcements, have gone to his registered office. Also, if the land tax of the housing associations was previously calculated according to the size of the land belonging to the apartment building and divided between the apartments, then now the Tax and Customs Board sends the tax notification directly to the owner of the dwelling, and since the amount of this tax is less than five euros in the apartment building, you do not have to pay. It's clear the local governments are missing money. But losing the land tax does not worry as much about the ladies as we have been told, because in the Russian era, for example, the limit for individual houses was about 600 m2 and was strictly respected. It is clear that we are actually paying off the huge new-rich plots in Kadriorg or in the luxurious real estate area of Nõmme, paying off the home property of the more expensive areas around Tallinn, luxury plots by the city of Tartu, modern properties of Tartu County. And I ask like Delfi, why doesn't the IRL talk about what the real reason for this draft was? It was still a loss of tax on its own mansion. Why is there no talk of luxury residences combined with multiple swaps taken away from forced tenants? What makes you think you don't have to pay for luxury? Why does a person on a minimum wage have to pay for your nice plot somewhere in a good area, as asked by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi? Tallinn was very right to raise the land tax rate for large plots, because the owner of Tallinn's large land must pay more, because the price of the property must be higher in Tallinn than in somewhere, I beg your pardon, in the village of Kolkaküla. And even if the state would compensate the municipalities for a hole in the future, which I do not believe will happen to Tallinn, then the taxpayer will still pay. It is clear that the money needed by the state is collected from small-income earners through high excise duties, VAT and rising room temperature. And, of course, with rising electricity prices, as can be read in today's newspapers, it will increase by up to 60%. Of course, the main reason for the abolition of the land tax is that Tallinn and the Mayor of Tallinn are to get away with it, which, of course, did not succeed again, because Tallinn once again came forward. We know what the end of all the coalition's efforts is. Instead, in the context of the Gender Equality Act, the Centre Party won the 'century' victory. The former splitting of Virumaa has repeatedly brought absolute victory to the Centre Party in Ida-Virumaa. At the moment, Tallinn's financial position is so good that it has even been praised by the Ministry of Finance, saying that the city's main business results are the second best of all times, and recommended that the land tax rate be increased to 2.5% in order to achieve even better results. This is now being done by Tallinn, while losing the land tax on smaller plots. What if the state teaches you how to play with taxes? IRL and Reform Party, believe me, tax payments are not punishment, as you are trying to prove populistly. Taxes are the contribution of members of society so that the state can function. I think that if this bill is adopted in its current form, roads will not be repaired in Estonia, and municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children and those in need. That's what we all have to stand here together, all those who hurt their hearts for their neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U88	Thank you! I would like to ask my colleague, Heimar Leng, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U89	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to turn to the right in the hall first, to the IRL. Urmas Reinsalu, the author of this law, is not in the Chamber, but tell him, ladies and gentlemen, to get him to work properly. He's had so much trouble lately, he just doesn't even have the balls to look at his next laws. In Tallinn, he gave power to the Centre Party even more powerfully than the Centre Party itself would have done. It was the famous Act on Gender Equality that Reinsalu did and with which he allowed so many new places to come to the Centre Party that no one could even predict it. Not only did he give Edgar Savisaar the opportunity to make the result of the century, Savisaar received 38974 votes after Reinsalu's amendments. So tell Reinsalu to pull yourself together, because this current amendment to the Land Tax Act is another example of Reinsalu being outsmarted and Tallinn taking such a strong step that it lost the land tax itself. But in order not to accuse me of criticizing colleagues for myself or for our party, I thought I would read the editorial of Delfi, the information portal we all respected and loved. The title of this editorial was "Minemaiad politicians (Think of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and Reform Party). "H.L.) made up the bee's honeycomb family around the land tax. Everyone wanted big pros out of this law, but take a finger! The editorial begins after this: "In 2008, Tallinn, ruled by the Centre Party, raised the land tax. The opponents of the Central Party on Toompea began to discuss how to force the capital to withdraw from its decision. The thicker end was in the hands of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which wrote about the exemption of the homeland from tax in their funny-famous "Contract with You." [- - -] The Reform Party went along with the initiative of the coalition partner and in May the government gave the Riigikogu a draft law to deal with the loss of housing tax in densely populated areas up to 1500 square metres and in scattered areas up to two hectares. " What does the editorial say? "What did Edgar "Teflonman" Savisaar do?" asks Delfi. "Wait until the law passed in the Riigikogu tells him to exempt the land he owns from tax? That's a lie!" writes the portal. "Saviar decided that the old fox's tricks are not over yet. The city administration received an order to quickly develop a counter-opinion. One that will lose the tax on the land under home in the capital before the law adopted in the Riigikogu and approved by the President is most likely to do so. [- - -] The actual reason for the exemption was not mentioned once by the City Government, but was presented as benefactors concerned with "the increase in household expenditure in recent years." Those that are known to account for the political parties of the government coalition. "The Centre Party once again proved itself to be the Great Populist," says Delfi. "Although political parties today formed a kind of honeycomb family around the abolition of land tax, trying to adopt it all at once, it is with pride that the Central Party in the 2013 local elections was able to say that they freed the land tax belonging to the top of Estonia in the capital of the homeland. " Those are not my words, they are said by journalists! "Who will remember that it was the same land tax that the same party introduced in 2008. It is particularly ironic," Delfi concludes his editorial, "that, although the city council's bill has to be adopted according to the rules, the matter has actually been decided. After all, the Centre Party has the sole power in Tallinn to remember the previous time when the mayors of Tallinn tried to outsmart the Toompea Act (then the electoral law). "But it never succeeds just because it was my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U90	Thank you! I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Velman, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 51 came before us at first reading in such a condition that several members of the Riigikogu were forced to bring to the attention of the initiators both clerical errors and technical defects. So right from the beginning, you could see that the bill was done in a hurry. For the next time, a draft was reached on our tables, the text of which had changed so much that there was a reason to talk about a practically new draft, but this time, too, the lead committee did not listen to our observations. It has been said a lot about this remote control that the debate on this bill started essentially from second reading, because instead of the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax, we are talking today about the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts owners from land tax. And today we have come so far that the political groups of the Riigikogu no longer have the opportunity to propose amendments, as our Rules of Procedure prescribe. The debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs also raised serious doubts as to whether this is the same draft because no sentence has been retained from the previous draft, except for the date of entry into force. According to good practice, if more than one third of the text has been changed between two readings, the reading should be interrupted and the members of the Riigikogu should be given the opportunity to propose amendments. After all, they see this text for the first time, and there are certainly good ideas to make it even better. All the more so, in this case, one hundred percent of the new text is. As foreseen by the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, there was a vote on the committee, which resulted in a close but firm vote of 6: 5 after those members of the committee who are likely to have a better memory and they will remember with certainty that they have seen and read this text somewhere, and it will be very familiar. The draft law amending the Land Tax Act was announced on 16 May, was accepted into Riigikogu proceedings on 17 May, the first reading took place on 31 May and 1 June and the deadline for submitting amendments was 3 June. The revised text of officials was discussed in the Committee on Finance on 7 June and a second reading of the draft is currently taking place. Thus, less than a month has passed since the draft was launched. Where is the government coalition in such a hurry with this bill? After all, 2013 is still behind the mountains when this law will have to apply. It has also been said that everyone who has drawn up a local government budget knows that land tax is planned and personal income tax is expected. Land tax is, in principle, an important guarantor of the financial autonomy of the local government. Land tax is a stable source of income, as the amount of land tax does not change as quickly as the number of people registered in the municipality changes. Land tax does not change as the number of inhabitants of local governments decreases. The municipality has the opportunity to grant a land tax concession, and the local government has the possibility to change the rate of land tax. These are all direct examples of the financial autonomy of the municipality. What, then, really is the autonomy of local governments? The autonomy of local governments is that the elected community of local people decides for themselves what is done in the local government. But if we observe and listen to those people who have been to the speaker's desk, they talk a lot about the problems of the city of Tallinn, Tallinn. The question arises as to whether the issues of local government should be resolved either through the Riigikogu or through the state if it is not possible to overpower the local government at the level of the local government. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U92	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U93	This is neither a democratic nor a European practice. In municipal elections, people simply need to be offered solutions that they like, take power there and organise local life through it. Because if you think about it from here on out, some coalition ambassadors don't like the higher land tax of Tallinn, the next thing you know, some ambassadors don't like the highest kindergarten tax of any local government. So let the local governments decide for themselves on the ground and the Riigikogu should deal with the affairs of the state. My good colleague, Peter Võsa, asked several questions from this remote unit yesterday and gave a very good emotional speech. He asked if we knew why Estonia would never be among the five most prosperous European countries, why about a quarter of our children are constantly starving, why the mouths of adults are rotting because of dental diseases, and we cannot give them dental support to improve our health. Why are our salaries and pensions as small as rabbit punks? Why are shortcomings in the rescue area, medicine, law enforcement constantly revealed? Why are we not able to provide free school food for all students? Why is the state of health of our sons so that our defence forces must constantly complain about it? Why do our daughters and wives not want to give birth to us and our lives are constantly falling? And there were several other questions. He came to a perfectly legitimate conclusion of this: only because the main steam in the Riigikogu goes to one another in turn. Finally, I would like to reiterate the general position of the Centre Party Group. In recent years, the government has cheated on a number of occasions by reducing the compensation fund, reducing road savings, reducing money for youth sport and kindergartens. We have no reason to believe that the Reform Party and the IRL will behave differently this time. If the reduction of the income base is intended to be compensated for by the abolition of land tax, it would also be included in the text of the draft law. Unfortunately, it is feared that if the text of the bill is adopted in its current form, roads will not be repaired in Estonia, and municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children and those in need. Any member of the Riigikogu who hurts the heart for his own region must resist this. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U94	Thank you! I would now like to ask my colleague, Jüri Ratas, to speak to you. Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U95	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! If we think about the previous draft law of the Riigikogu, the size of the Tallinn City Council, which has been amended following the Gender Equality Act, may be remembered among many among the first. True, this draft law was not dealt with at the beginning of the XI, but in the XII composition, the coalition has been able to bring the bill with major shortcomings in legal and procedural terms to the proceedings of the Riigikogu in the first months.51 This haste is not worthy of recognition either by the opposition or by many coalition politicians (for the latter, this has not only occurred in corridor conversations). It is certainly not news that the legislative framework is broadly in place in the Estonian country, and today we are mostly in the process of amending laws. I believe that, at the end of our membership, our workability will not be measured by the number of laws being processed, but rather by their quality, including their content, broad-basedness, impact analysis, and by the coalition and the opposition. In the case of this draft, we can argue about the content, but it is very far from the analysis of the effects, the broad-based approach and the common part of the coalition and opposition, or rather it is not. A single meeting with local governments for the purpose of obtaining a mandatory point is as far from a serious and broad-based discussion with the public and local authorities as the Moon is from the Sun. Hence the question to all of us: does this way of dealing with the bill help to increase the credibility and reputation of the Riigikogu, or does it reduce it? Good colleagues, land tax exemption significantly reduces the local government's revenue base, which the government association has promised to provide 17 million euros from the state budget in the draft explanatory memorandum to compensate for. Whether this amount also covers the loss of local government revenue is questionable. In any case, the draft is aimed at narrowing the sovereign self-determination rights of local authorities. On the other hand, the revenue from the state budget has been generated by the work of all taxpayers and, therefore, the reduction in income from the land tax exemption has been paid off in the state budget by means of multiple increases in other taxes. Thus, the exemption from the tax on land under domestic land is merely a deceptive illusion under the tax reduction label. By increasing excise taxes, VAT and electricity prices paid by all residents, land tax exemptions are pure populism and electoral promises, which do not improve people's economic situation at all, because new tax increases await us. Today we could read how a 60% increase in electricity prices is already being sought. In the case of Bill 51, which concerns the majority of the population and 226 municipalities, it is crucial and elementary to carry out a wide range of impact analyses and to create a transparent and concrete system for compensating local authorities for loss of income. One-off doorstep visits or people's letters are certainly important, but do not ensure a comprehensive impact assessment. In the case of Bill 51, there is certainly a legitimate question on which we are in a hurry. From today until the bill comes into force, there are 566 days. The opposition's request throughout the procedure has been to clarify the draft, to sign in the compensation mechanism, to analyse the effects. This is still possible at the moment, because the second reading has not been completed and the proposal to suspend the debate has been made. The interruption would also make perfect sense because it would give the lead committee, but above all the coalition, the opportunity to correct the draft in legal terms and to return to the second reading at the latest at the autumn session of this year. It is rather strange how the new text of the draft law appeared on our tables after the deadline for amendments expired. The new text of the draft law consists of 41 rows, 39 of which are new or improved and two lines remain the same, they are § 2 "Entry into force of the act" and the second line is the text: "The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2013. " Any good practice in handling a bill requires that the second reading be interrupted in the event of such major changes. This can also be seen from our experience, where the discussion of the Traffic Act, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act as well as many other draft laws was interrupted in the previous formation. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, we read that burdening homeowners with land tax is not only abnormal but also immoral. From this point of view, I conclude that the land tax on up to 1500 square metres and 2 hectares respectively, which is now being abolished, is immoral, but that part of the land that exceeds 1500 square metres and 2 hectares is already moral. This reveals a magnificent ability to distinguish between moral immorality and immorality! In recent years, the government has defrauded municipalities on several occasions by reducing the compensation fund, reducing road savings, reducing money for youth sport and kindergartens. We have no reason to believe that the Reform Party and the IRL will behave differently this time. If the share of the income base reduced by land tax is intended to be compensated, it would also be included in the text of the draft law. Unfortunately, it is feared that if the text of the bill is adopted in its current form, roads will not be repaired in Estonia, and municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children and those in need. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U96	Thank you, Mr Jüri Ratas. Mr Kalle Laaneti, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the bill on our tables and at the discussion, its goal of freeing homeowners from land tax is certainly a noble goal. If you look at the fact that one of the reasons why you want to be released is that there is a high level of forced expenditure on people's housing per household member in Estonia, I agree with that. Or the second objective: the large-scale housing arrangement chosen in the country's housing policy requires the state to take measures to encourage the ability to cope with fixed housing costs. You can only agree with that, too. The previous speaker Jüri Ratas referred to today's news reports, which say that Elering reports that electricity prices should increase by 60%. The question arises here immediately as to whether there is still such a clear target of reducing home expenses as it is set out in the draft. If the third objective is that in some municipalities, a high land tax related to home ownership in absolute terms has become an overly burdensome tax on property, then at times it seems that we are here at the Tallinn Council, not the Riigikogu. After all, the voter will decide whether the people who run one local government or another deserve it and whether the steps they take are the right ones. Objective 4: Today's high tax burden on home ownership can, as administrative pressure, lead to the breakdown of communities in regions of environmental value. I doubt it's true. If, in the case of a very large number of drafts initiated by the opposition, it is always pointed out that there is not enough impact analysis or prior analysis, then for this draft this analysis is completely incomplete, it is not. Here, however, we think that we are making the right decisions because of our instincts. Today's county page asks on its Internet portal, which is thought to be part of the plan to abolish land tax on the dwelling area. What do you think that percentage is, who's for it? It should be extremely high, for the purpose is noble; people are relieved of some sort of burden or obligation. Only 52.6% of respondents with two hands, 34.2% think it's a populist step, and no matter what it is, it's 7.9%. Why, then, do people not believe in this noble purpose? I think there's a lot of reasons for not believing. The first reason is certainly why we have to rush so badly with the adoption of this draft. Why can't we handle this calmly, following the processes of a democratic state and explain in society all the aspects that have raised questions in this Chamber and people outside this Chamber? Surely this part of it has been left unclear... Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U98	Please, two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U99	... how local authorities will be compensated for the amounts they have not received. The answers in this Chamber have been very different, starting with the Prime Minister and ending with the Minister of Finance or the Chairman of the Commission. This raises the question of whether local authorities should even have some form of tax collection, maybe all taxes could be paid to the state and the state will distribute money to local authorities exactly as it sees fit. It'd be a lot easier. It is clear that the local government must obtain revenue from somewhere and cover its own costs. It is clear that this money is collected in other taxes. Consequently, I am convinced that we should not adopt laws in haste today, which would bring us under great criticism from both the public and the President, as well as from the Chancellor of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court. This may actually happen in this Chamber in the next few hours and days, when the last one finally gets his turn. So I am of the opinion that today we could deal thoroughly, calmly and in agreement with the issues that concern all people living in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U100	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. Ester Tuiksoo, colleague of the speaker's desk, please! Since he is not here, I would like to ask Mr Olga Sõtnik next.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's second-reading draft 51 in this Chamber, the original version of the law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax, is another example of how yet another legislative failure will occur in haste. The procedure of this bill violates both good practice and technical rules and ignores common sense. The bill we have on the tables today has changed beyond recognition compared to the original draft. The title has changed, the Land Tax Exemption Act for homeowners has become the Land Tax Exemption Act for homeowners, the content has changed, and the two-page explanatory memorandum has become a ten-page document. This piece of writing in the form of a bill still gives rise to serious discussions about the quality of our legislation and the procedures for dealing with it. What is going on with this draft is, in a bad way, a high level of legislative pilotage, which will inevitably continue to bear the face of IRL colleagues. The day before yesterday, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder handed over his 2010 activity report to the Riigikogu, where, among other things, he criticised the Riigikogu for its excessive haste in adopting several laws. We can probably also read something about the draft law that we are discussing today in the Chancellor of Justice's report for the following year, because although this law should enter into force only in 2013, it is intended to be adopted without further analysis and consensus and, essentially, with one reading. Although the draft has indeed become a little more meaningful compared to the first option, there is still one important thing missing in this draft, which has been discussed a lot both in this Chamber and in local governments, in the local authorities' collections and very much in the newspaper columns. There is a lack of a clear understanding of whether and how it is planned to compensate local authorities for loss of income, which according to the explanatory memorandum amounts to EUR 17 million per year. Our laws and the decisions of the Supreme Court provide that the government also allocates funds to the local government, together with its duties. Unfortunately, in normal practice, this is often forgotten. Now that local income bases are significantly reduced by the abolition of land tax, the Prime Minister is talking about the state's commitment to compensate local governments for the loss of income, which is the only right move. However, on the next day, the same Prime Minister acknowledges that there really is no compensation obligation. On the third day, Mr Sester, who introduces the bill, speaks a third story, and the Minister of Finance, Mr Ligi, has a fourth opinion. Where, then, can local authorities today take the assurance that all public services will be provided to people after the land tax has been abolished? Prime Minister Ansip says that the solution would be a fair redistribution of personal income tax. If that is the case, why not come up at the same time with this bill, which raises the percentage of income tax allocated to local governments and which immediately takes away all the questions and the confrontation that is now large enough in society. Of course, even if the coalition develops a compensation mechanism that is satisfactory to all parties, it should not be forgotten that the money that is missing from the abolition of the land tax does not come to heaven as a manna, but is taken from other areas. And which areas are compensated for the abolition of land tax? Is spending cut in the social sector, education, security or internal security? I don't know, but there's a lot of food for thought. What is not, however, is the time, because the move towards the abolition of land tax has started and what it all brings with it is only time. I'm asking for a few more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U102	Two minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U103	Last week, the City Government of Tallinn came out with a bill that will make the tax on the land under home disappear for the residents of the city from next year. According to this draft, the land under land will be exempted from land tax from 1 January 2012 up to 1500 square metres. Thus up to 180000 Tallinn homeowners receive land tax exemptions. The exemption from the tax of the land under home was due in Tallinn to the fact that the cost of food and housing in households has increased considerably in recent years, while the real wage has fallen. According to Statistics Estonia, expenditure on housing has increased by as much as 26% compared to 2007, including a 40% increase in the price of heat energy compared to 2007, a 24% increase in the price of electricity and 33% in the price of natural gas. What is going to happen in the future is difficult to predict, because today the news is that the price of electricity may increase even more than originally planned, there is already talk of an increase of 60%. This draft will probably be supported by the Tallinn Council this Thursday, i.e. tomorrow, and I hope that not only by the votes of the members of the Central Party Group, but certainly the opposition parties should also support this draft council, because the Reform Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Association agree that the tax on the land under home should disappear as soon as possible. And the fact that he disappears in Tallinn one year earlier than in the whole country, they should only like him. Unfortunately, we must press the red button in this Chamber because we do not have faith in the IRL and Reform Party government. In recent years, the government has defrauded municipalities on several occasions, reducing the equalisation fund, reducing road savings, reducing money for youth sports and kindergartens, and there is no reason to believe that the Reform Party and the IRL will behave differently this time. If the reduction in the income base resulting from the abolition of land tax is intended to be compensated, it would also be included in the text of the draft law. Unfortunately, it is feared that if the text of the bill is adopted in its current form, roads will not be repaired in Estonia, and municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children and those in need. Every member of the Riigikogu who hurts his heart for his own region must resist this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Olga Soldier. Now I'm asking for a colleague of the speaker, Priit Toobal. Good colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the punishment must be served, your report will be the last!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U105	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I've been embarrassed many times in this hall, confused, but today I understand everything very well. I understand how coalition parties do their business. Drive a roller by the way, sloppy, hasty and forceful. But this knowledge and this method do not suit me, is not suitable for the Centre Party, is not suitable for the municipalities, is not suitable for the Estonian people. In itself, there is nothing wrong with abolishing the tax on the land under home and thereby reducing a person's home expenses. On the contrary, who wouldn't like to have more money? But first of all, the method by which this is done, or how this bill is dealt with, is not correct. This, in my opinion, is not in accordance with the Riigikogu's domestic and operating rules law, not to mention some good practice in processing one or another draft law in this Chamber. Secondly, I am deeply concerned, and this concern is also the main reason why I cannot support this bill, that this amendment will once again reduce the right to self-determination of local governments and cut an important part of their income base. Yes, coalition politicians have promised, from here too, that the state will compensate cities and municipalities for the loss of revenue. In particular, it is emphasised that Prime Minister Ansip has personally promised that compensation will take place, and his word is taken as some special guarantee. On the contrary, it is very suspicious to me, because the Prime Minister has a habit and has become customary in the short term to radically change his views. I will just give you a few examples. In 2008, Ansip said in a speech held in Tartu on the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia that the government he manages will never adopt a budget in deficit. I quote the Prime Minister: 'I have also confirmed and now I can assure you that my government will not accept the budget in deficit. We can't live at the expense of our children. " Only five months later, the Prime Minister says that he is not fundamental to the balance of the state budget and, if necessary, may fail to balance. On 7 April 2008, the Prime Minister says that there is no need to adopt a negative additional national budget and that expenditure should be frozen until 1 September. I quote Ansip: "My proposal is to freeze the use of these funds until 1 September, when the summer economic forecast is known, decisions can also be made. " Only seven days later, the Prime Minister says that he is on that day and has always been in favour of adopting a negative supplementary budget this spring. Before the elections on 7 October 2010, Ansip announced at a press conference in the government that Eesti Energia's plan to raise the price of electricity was skinwalking and bullshit. But six months later, after the elections, it doesn't seem stupid to him, and he said the government couldn't do anything to stop the increase. Having listened to only a few examples, do you then have the Prime Minister's statements of confidence and hope that it will really do as he has said, in the context of this draft: will the state actually give back the euros lost to the cities and municipalities of Estonia due to the exemption from tax on the land under home? It doesn't make me. I am sure that this compensation is again due to some kind of trickery, as has been the case in the past in the case of carers' allowance for disabled people, in the case of road maintenance facilities, etc. The honourable government must not forget what services the municipality offers to the people of Estonia. People pay land tax and receive a lot of services for it: street lighting, maintenance of roads and streets, winter snow control, pre-school education, culture, sport, youth work, etc. So we have to ask: what happens if the land tax is taken away from the municipalities and it is not compensated? What about street lighting, road and street maintenance, winter snow control, education, culture, sport and youth work? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U106	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U107	Each exemption will undoubtedly have a good emotional effect on a person. Let's be honest, who wouldn't like to have more money every month and every year? It is a sin, though, to add a little more in one pocket, but the other is taken away secretly and behind you over and over again. Today, the land tax will be abolished, and small municipalities will soon be unable to light the streets, repair you, let alone build them, and snowing will become a personal problem for everyone. Let me remind you of the words of a good colleague, Deniss Borodichi, which he said off this remote control yesterday: the coalition is distributing tax incentives for local government money. What's wrong with giving gifts for someone else's money? I promise, I will, and you find the money and pay. That is not the way, esteemed government, respected coalition! Finally, you have completely drained the funds from local authorities and made them unable to provide services. What are you gonna do? So, what are you gonna do with your plans? In recent years, the government has defrauded municipalities on several occasions by reducing the compensation fund, reducing road savings, reducing money for youth sport and kindergartens. We have no reason to believe that the Reform Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance will behave differently this time. If the portion of the income base reduced by the abolition of land tax is intended to be compensated, it would also be included in the draft law. Unfortunately, it is feared that if the text of the bill is adopted in its current form, roads will not be repaired in Estonia, and municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children and those in need. Any member of the Riigikogu who hurts the heart for his own region must resist this. The Centre Party Group has proposed on several occasions that the Coalition interrupt the reading of this draft and also allow the opposition to make its amendments. The Coalition has not listened to this prayer or desire. We still have, actually, the coalition still has the opportunity to meet local governments and local governments, to meet the Social Democratic Party and the Centre Party, and to interrupt the second reading of the bill. Go on with this in the autumn, doing the necessary analyses during the summer, discussing it with local governments, local governments, having the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi make the necessary calculations and then come back to discussing the bill in the autumn. As long as this has not been done, the Centre Party Group will certainly not be able to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U108	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Evgeni Ossinovski, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A former American senator once said that everything that can be said on this subject has already been said, only not everyone has yet been able to say it. Everything has content and a form. Both our work has content and form and, in formal terms, this bill and the way in which it has been handled does not suffer any criticism. We have received a four-line bill, of which a little more than 34 lines have been made between two readings, and the opposition has not had the opportunity to table proposals to amend it. This is sad and regrettable not only in the context of this law, but as a precedent for the way in which we work in this Chamber. If we allow ourselves, in the interests of efficiency, efficiency, speed, to slip into a bit of democracy every time, we cannot know where we will end up and perhaps sooner rather than later. If we go back to this particular law, there is no exclusion that would allow the coalition to come together under the sun shadows in the summer and discuss substantive unresolved issues, such as how compensation is being paid to local governments. In the autumn, the bill could be dealt with normally at a calm pace, also giving the opposition the opportunity to make improvements again. The only line of law that remained unchanged between the two readings says that the law will enter into force not on 1 July this year, but on 1 January of the following year. That means we have a chance to do our job calmly, constructively and normally. But now to the substance of the bill. There is, of course, one fundamental question at stake: it is the financial autonomy of local authorities. There's a joke about a family that bought a new car. One of the husbands, I assume it was the lady, said to the other, look, I don't know much about the engine thing and the car brands, but let me pick the color of the car. Which is why the man said, of course, it's your sovereign decision what color the car we're buying, as long as it's black. In fact, the coalition has now acted the same way. We have the principle of the financial autonomy of local governments, which says that local governments can impose certain taxes within the limits allowed by law. And, of course, the municipalities have been left full freedom as long as they decide not to impose taxes. This was the case with sales tax, which is now the case with land tax. Of course, we come from the so-called principle to a specific question. The government has promised to at least compensate for the loss of money, but has not said what source and to what extent. A colleague here quite well pointed out that it was like Vilde's "Little Hänna" where Vestmann told the Biblepaper that you, a damn man, came to my daughter with your money. Indeed, the money that has been taken away in the past is now intended to partially compensate for this second withdrawal. Well, it's not convincing! One of the previous speakers, who represented the coalition, I don't know if he read a letter from the deputy mayor who arrived in the Tallinn mailboxes today or something else, said that 90% of our homes are privately owned. Yes, it is true, more than 90% are privately owned. Having a home and living at home, even if you do not own it, but just rent it, involves many unavoidable expenses, including a number of tax expenses. Earth tax is not the only one. I hope that the coalition will be as consistent as we will be discussing here the reduction of the inevitable costs associated with the ownership of the home of others, such as the reduction of house-maker VAT. If you are really concerned about the unavoidable costs of homeowners, which tend to grow over their heads, then it is certainly worth focusing on the electric excise duty, in addition to the warm VAT. We must certainly consider all available alternatives to one problem or another when we solve problems here, because we and your constituents, too, are paying VAT and paying almost everything in full. But since the Riigikogu has to do its work in a high-quality, efficient and fast way, I do not need extra time and save another 15 or 20 seconds of the extra time spent by other speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U110	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The discussion of this draft, both in the Riigikogu and in the press, has repeatedly referred to the serious problems that this entails. The new draft law, which we are mistakenly calling a second reading of the old draft, has resolved some of them, but there is certainly no part. These problems have also been repeatedly referred to here. In any case, it will be interesting for me to see how international statistics books after 2013 write about the fact that Estonian families prefer to live alone, and it is speculated whether the economic crisis has broken marriages in Estonia. In addition to such a joke, the explanatory statement has directly twisted the facts. At the beginning, it was said that 90% of the Estonian population will win the amendment. As an honest person, Sven Sester confirmed yesterday that only 60% of Estonian households pay land tax. I would also like to thank Mr Sester for not being here at the moment, for answering my Thursday question about how much on average Estonian households pay land tax. It turned out that the average land tax among the 60% who paid it in the first place was EUR 3.5 per month. I do not understand how, after that, we can talk about the immoral gradual confiscation of homes, as some of the initiators have done here. I myself have tried to think along with the initiators of the draft and to find some reason why this draft is needed. I myself failed to do so, and neither could I read any valid arguments from the initiators, apart from the fact that the land tax is too high in Tallinn. Yesterday we saw that Valdo Randpere has not yet fully understood that he is no longer a member of Tallinn City Council. I can agree that in Tallinn, land tax is sometimes too high, but the abolition of land tax is certainly a disproportionate measure. Urmas Reinsalu, the representative of the initiators of the bill, was also unable to answer me at first reading why more sensible solutions to solve Tallinn's problem could not be discussed, for example, establishing a land tax ceiling. Last week, of course, the mayor of Tallinn gave the initiators a good gift and it happened as expected. The protector of homeowners, Urmas Reinsalu, was then victoriously able to say that you see, even Savisaare, I convinced that this was a good bill. But I guess these people speak the same language in political terms a long time ago. In addition to the financial details that have already been discussed here, however, there is also a fundamental problem with the draft, which is not whether the land tax is a moral or immoral tax, but that one of the fundamental principles of sound fiscal policy is the stability of tax revenues. It is important that, during the economic crisis, public services should not be cut down so that their quality does not deteriorate, just as we did during the previous economic crisis in 2009. Using the traditional triple distribution of taxes, we can see that Estonia is at the forefront in the European Union with Denmark and Sweden in terms of consumption taxes, we are slightly below the EU average in terms of labour taxes, and these two tax types account for 90% of Estonia's total taxes. However, in terms of the third type of tax, or capital taxes, we are the last in the European Union. And, unfortunately, if, at a time of economic crisis, both consumption taxes and labour taxes are rapidly decreasing, capital taxes and, in particular, property taxes, including land tax, will remain the most stable. That is why the question is really fundamental. Although the financial impact is not knowing how much, if you believe that it is EUR 17 million, it is completely irresponsible and certainly not statesmanly to adopt laws which, for populist reasons, reduce the stability of budgetary revenue without having a positive economic or even social effect. One minute more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U111	Please, just a minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U112	That is why I appeal to the ambassadors of the Fatherland Union and Reform Party: please do not go along with this populism of Res Publica! We interrupt this second reading today and make a proper draft for the fall. Remember, however, that the content of your oath was that you are acting for the benefit of the Estonian state and the people, and you will not think about how many votes you will receive from Nõmme's pensioners in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U113	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. Eiki Nestor, colleague of the speaker's desk, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U114	Good friends of the MPs! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to recall, in a good word, Minister Jürgen Ligi, who, in spite of what his party's teachers are saying, has, in my opinion, made a perfectly clear point of view on this draft. In addition to what has been said by the Minister of Finance, who sees in the land tax, in particular, the owner's obligation to pay for the fact that the road to his plot also reaches, that in the winter it is cleared of snow and that there is electricity there, I would add something that he may not like so much. I think that, in terms of sustainable development, too, this is a tax that emphasises the importance of ownership and the responsibility for its assets. This is the case everywhere in the world, and it should be ours. We're halfway there right now. But it is also the responsibility of the owner: the property must be kept, stimulated, and property taxes and land tax are the most reasonable way to do so. In the case of this bill, there is actually one thing that has led to a talk and a talk marathon: it is an incomprehensible desire to adopt the law quickly. The law should enter into force on 1 January 2013. He has two clear shortcomings that have been repeatedly referred to here. We have plenty of time to discuss these matters in September-October, even on the basis of proposals made by one or another member of the Cabinet. A legitimate question arises where it will be so urgent that we will actually adopt the law in one reading, as most would like it. What is left of this minority is to protest against a line of conduct in which the majority does not want to talk to the minority. Among the reasons, for some reason, everyone has mentioned one thing, I must say that I do not share it. Knowing the politicians of Res Publica, however, for years, I do not think that a fall in their rating would be something that would scare them so badly. They're not so weak-hearted and ara-breeds now, they're not going to be here to practice tape and ring after the rating, to pass the law quickly. Maybe more logical is really another reason. After all, every coalition is a marriage of reason, and it always tends to be with those points that are born in the coalition agreement in the most difficult way and with major disputes, that if the partnership continues and as a result the tensions continue to grow, the other party might perhaps give up the promise initially made or do everything to make the little point given to the other party look different somehow. That's why Res Publica is afraid it's not done. I think the real reason is somewhere else and is much more serious. Here I say my clear opinion. In general, I am a person who understands politicians and knows why they're doing something. If something angers me, it is when politicians use concepts and feelings in politics that cannot be used in politics. It is, in the same way, offensive to the voters, because they are fooled, and the other way around, when we see what has come out of this beautiful heartbreaking idea in real life, it becomes quite different. I think a lot of homeowners voted with tears in their eyes for the IRL to make home expenses fall, the land tax disappears. But let's read the law we have. The sacred term "home" is mocked by this bill. So how many homes does a man have? There is one home and there is another home, when the family has three plots, then there are three homes and then maybe four homes within the meaning of this law. I ask you: where, then, is the home of this family in the sacred sense that tears were brought to the eyes of the voters? Or when it is said that home is a sacred place. But real estate business is real estate business. Everyone can rent their property and earn it. Honour and glory for them! But you never rent your home out to anyone. How can you rent your home? I look forward to the next person's sacred feeling being rented out with a bill of exactly the same title. Let's hope they don't come! In fact, I think Res Publica knows very well that they fooled voters with their home expenses slogan. Juhan Parts can blow you what he wants, and Mart Laar in the same way, in fact, there are rules in the economy. There is no hope of combating economic rules if you hold the position of both Minister of Economy and Minister of Defence, not to mention the abilities of Urmas Reinsalu. There is an incorrigible desire that before these home expenses rise up under the rules of the economy, a fingerful would have been made to make something happen. And so we now have the number of homes equalized by the number of plots in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U115	Thank you very much, Mr Nestor. Mr Sven Sester, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft is to exempt homeowners from land tax. That is what they want to do for four reasons, and I will repeat them once again. First of all, in Estonia, people's housing costs per household member are high and this bill aims to reduce them. According to Statistics Estonia, the average cost of the household member in 2010 is EUR 50 per month, plus a tax on the land under home. Bigger expenses are mainly for the city's inhabitants. Secondly, as a result of housing and property reforms in Estonia, the vast majority of households have owner-occupied housing: almost 90% of the housing fund owns private property. As a result, the social structure and economic performance of the population that owns their permanent residence vary greatly. The extensive housing arrangements chosen in the country's housing policy require measures from the state to facilitate the ability to cope with fixed housing costs. Thirdly, in some municipalities, high land tax related to home ownership has become an obvious tax burden on property. Fourthly, the current high tax burden on home ownership could lead to the breakdown of communities in regions of environmental value. I repeat the response given yesterday to one of the opposition politicians elected from Tallinn. IRL policy days will not change. We do not have a political culture like the Centre Party, which one day and one minute says that land tax should not be abolished, and then a little later states that we are actually losing land tax. For years, the IRL has been of the opinion that land tax should disappear. A few years ago, the IRL and Reform Party came up with a legislative amendment that gave local authorities an additional opportunity to reduce the tax on their home country or to lose it. This opportunity was used by three Estonian municipalities to abolish the land tax. Our political vision has been one and clear over the years. We're not like the flag of the wind that's changing direction. Aivar Riisalu asked me yesterday if I was ashamed. Listening to the speeches in this hall today, I have to admit, yes, I am ashamed. I'm ashamed of Mr. Ratas, who speaks with a loud voice that land tax exemption is populism. Good Jüri, then make it clear to yourself and in your party whether you are in favour of or against exempting your country from tax on the basis of your home! It cannot be that in the Riigikogu you are talking about land tax exemption and in the Tallinn Council a different story! I am ashamed of Mr Leng, who quite a few moments ago stated from this remote control: "We tricked you into exempting the land in Tallinn. " Well, I'm sorry! Mr. Lenk, think about what you're saying! What is your goal as a politician in this Chamber? I am ashamed of many of today's speeches. I'm going to quote you a few sentences. "I live in Nõmme, I own 600 square meters of land, and I have to pay 130 euros a year for it." "We have been forced to pay the land tax for 1639 square metres of plot in Merivälja this year, a total of EUR 530." "I'm definitely against land tax, I've paid for the land by buying it, and why do I have to do it every year? This is certainly a very difficult issue for pensioners. I pay 50 euros of land tax each year." "I pay 300 euros a year for my land, living in Kakumägi, a childhood home, 506 square metres of land, for me as a mother of a large family (12 children) this is a great burden. " These are the letters of men that we have received. The land tax is also paid by the voters of the Centre Party and the Social Democrats. I very much hope that the voters of opposition parties will give a clear signal that it is in their interest to exempt homeowners from land tax. Nearly 90% of Estonian households own their own apartment or house. The abolition of land tax benefits everyone, including home owners who choose opposition parties. Today I am happy to read about the support of many social organisations: the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families, the Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Estonian Owners' Confederation. Thank you, good alliances. Thanks to you and the response of many people, I understand that we are on the right track. IRL supports one hundred percent of this bill's entry into force as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U117	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. I would now like to ask my colleague, Enn Frontland, to speak on the floor. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, There was an absurd coma, but unfortunately the debate about the draft law on the exemption from land tax, which reached the loss of self-control, reminds older people of a sad anecdote of the Russian era, according to which the railmaker was responsible for everything. When analysing the draft law amending the Land Tax Exemption Act for homeowners, especially its explanatory memorandum, some people who are not exposed to political dimming rhetoric every day have the impression that the permanent deterioration of the people's lives is due to land tax, not to the years of economic policy decisions of coalition parties. I am thinking, above all, of raising excise duties and many other taxes or of abolishing tax incentives, which have forced many families, as well as people living alone, to change their homes to a more modest one, but they have pushed the younger and healthier even to seek work, housing and bread elsewhere from Estonia. For many, the problem is not the cost of having a home, but, above all, the perilousness of living in their home, in their city or rural municipality, and in unemployment throughout the country. We often hear this by meeting people who have elected us to the Riigikogu, and we also hear it from people who speak, write or call us in any place in Estonia. Do they have a reason to complain? I think there is, and there's more. Let's take the start line, even the year 2007. At the time, VAT on district heating was raised from 5% to 18%, two years later to 20%. This is a huge increase, because Estonia is not Brazil and heating costs are not only a luxury option but also a vital requirement. Besides, a warm room is not just a source of pleasure, but on the contrary, a cold room makes a healthy person sick. Secondly, I recall the price of electricity raised by increasing excise duty. Since 2007, electricity has even doubled, while excise duties on fuel have risen by at least 36%. Let us also recall the excise duty on natural gas, which was never needed, then suddenly had to be paid at least 367 kroons for 1000 m3. However, many families had already moved to cheaper gas heating. Two years ago, our life grew considerably again because, with less than a week's notice, VAT was raised from 18% to 20% throughout the country. But the list continues. Three times the VAT on accommodation services has been raised, which was once 5%, now it is 20%. Not only was it sobering for the number of tourists, but the income of thousands of Estonian people depends on serving tourists! All current employees have lost their two-year pension payments due to an increase in the retirement age by two years, which, in the case of the current average pension, amounts to EUR 7272 per two years. Pensioners lost free return of pensions, which now cost 4.6 euros per month. For the poor, especially for the sick old man, this means a lot of money, but even more discomfort, especially when it comes to a lonely old man. This eloquent list could, unfortunately, continue. Of all the problems related to the drafting of the draft 51 legislation, the opposition ambassadors of the Riigikogu have patiently tried to inform their colleagues. We believe that this is a new text that would require a new procedure. This text, which has been thoroughly revised, has not passed the first reading and, therefore, opposition ambassadors have not had the opportunity to table their amendments, the list of which would also be long. From its different but fundamental positions, this bill has also been criticised by leading coalition politicians. Only the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and the veteran politician Jüri Adams, who is an expert on many topics, can be mentioned. I have analysed the debate on land tax on Estonian county newspapers. Although the vast majority of these are the local vocalists of our large newspapers, it is quick to notice that there are fewer authors of the pending bill than there are critics. And that's understandable. According to the spring forecast of the Ministry of Finance, even without any cuts, the restoration of the revenue base of cities and municipalities has been postponed to 2015. New cuts will only exacerbate ignorance and uncertainty and push recovery further into the future, or, as has been said before, beyond the horizon. I quote 9 June from Pärnu Postman. The editorial document states that although the draft has been raised on meat bones in the meantime and the wording has been polished, the draft still explains in general terms how the power union intends to compensate the municipalities for the money they have not received from the land tax. The lack of a mechanism for compensating for loss of income makes the municipalities vigilant. According to Pärnu Postimees, this could be done by increasing the share of personal income tax allocated to municipalities. First of all, it should be raised to the level of the first quarter of 2009 and then added. In these thoughts, people who feel responsible for their actions are concerned, which we must not only share but also at least alleviate. Many people well remember that in recent years, the government has been deceiving the expectations of municipalities on several occasions, reducing the compensation fund, reducing road savings, reducing money for youth sport and kindergartens. We have little reason to believe that the Reform Party and the IRL will behave differently this time. If the income base reduced by land tax were to be compensated, it would also be included in the text of the draft law. Unfortunately, it is feared that if the text of the bill is adopted in its current form, roads will not be repaired in Estonia, and municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children and those in need. Every member of the Riigikogu who hurts the heart for his own region must resist this, but all of us together for the future of Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U119	Thank you very much, Mr Enn Frontland. Now, I would like to ask my colleague, Ester Tuiksoo. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U120	Thank you, Honourable Chairman, finally for the opportunity to come to the Riigikogu Chair! I hope your day got sunny and you smile more at us from up there. However, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, like many colleagues, I was moved to speak to homeowners about the draft law on land tax relief. Of course, the coalition's attempt to deliver on the election promises is understandable, but, like many other promises made by this government, it is evident that the promise will be fulfilled quickly, but at the same time there are no possibilities or compensatory mechanisms available. You don't have to look far for examples. A few days ago, we asked the Minister for Finance for clarification on the replacement system for reforming the use of specially labelled fuel. The answers were vague and superficial, even so that I would not answer some of the questions and I would answer that question in the autumn. In doing so, the reform of the compensation mechanisms for the use of special-marked fuel was announced to farmers at the most inappropriate time when they would not be able to get seriously involved in bureaucracy but would have to be in the field. In the case of this bill, the same happens; the parties are simply ignored. Yesterday, I asked the honourable rapporteur two questions, asking him to explain how the municipal authorities will be compensated for the funds they are missing in connection with the exemption of the land under their home country from tax. I received the answer that this amount may not be the same amount, or EUR 17 million, but could be much smaller, for example EUR 16 or some other million. In many respects, this response confirms that it is actually a fear of reducing the financial resources of the municipalities. Some municipalities will win financially, but some will certainly lose in their budgets. Here, for example, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities need to do a great deal of explaining work. I would also stress the situation in the municipalities. On the basis of the address of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities, the following is their views on draft law No 51 exempting homeowners from land tax. This is a bill of vital importance for Estonian municipalities, as it directly affects the income base of local governments. It is regrettable that this draft text did not pass through the normal round of coordination and that representatives of local government organisations were not involved in the preparatory phase of the draft. As representatives of the opposition, we do not understand that if there are compensatory mechanisms in someone's head somewhere, why are they afraid of bringing them on the table and opening a debate with representatives of organisations directly concerned? I asked the rapporteur about the draft yesterday whether he had personally spoken to some of the smaller and more modest annual government leaders on the subject. He replied that he considered it sufficient to have a conversation with representatives of representative organisations. It is very regrettable that a person who is actually quite reasonable can view the matter in this way. But I will come back once again to the important points to which the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities have pointed out in their turn. The ability of local authorities to provide high-quality public services to residents and to organise and develop local life depends directly on the income base. In addition to the effects of the economic downturn, which significantly reduced the municipal income base, the legislator decided in mid-year 2009 to reduce the share of personal income tax transferred to municipalities from 11,93% to 11,4% of gross individual income. Both the reduction of the share of income tax and the reduction of the compensatory fund have led to a reduction of 18,4% in the municipal income base in 2010 compared to 2008. It should be noted that the impact of the exceptional reduction is already estimated by these representative organisations at EUR 50,4 million in 2012, including the impact of the income tax decision of EUR 30,3 and, in the case of the Equalisation Fund, EUR 20,1 million. The amount of land tax currently accounts for a significant part of the local government's income base. It is a particularly important source of budget revenue in smaller municipalities. For example, when implementing the European Union's structural instruments, local authorities have an obligation to cover a certain part of the expenditure by self-financing. Once the income base has decreased, these obligations will be very difficult to meet. Each additional cut will reduce the capacity of the municipality to emerge from the crisis. I am not talking about the extra costs of heavy snow cleaning and maintenance due to difficult weather conditions. The representatives of the Municipalities and Cities Association have made a very concrete proposal that the local authorities' income base be brought back to a level before the extraordinary reduction of the personal income tax component and the equalisation fund. As regards the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, it is considered that it is necessary to provide for an increase in other tax revenues or to compensate for the reduction of the revenue base in the same financial amount when planning decisions to reduce revenue from state taxes on the budgets of local authorities, including land tax, as well as local taxes. The draft law is unthinkable, and many well - known people have spoken on the subject. In recent times, the government has defrauded municipalities on several occasions by reducing the compensation fund, reducing road savings, reducing the money allocated to youth sport and kindergartens. In this latter area, municipalities only have obligations that are fulfilled, based, of course, on conscience. We have no reason to believe that the ruling coalition will behave differently this time. If the income base reduced by land tax were to be compensated, it would also be included in the draft law. Unfortunately, there is reason to fear that, if the text of the bill is adopted in its current form, roads will not be repaired in Estonia and the municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children and those in need. Every member of the Riigikogu who cares about the situation of their local government must oppose this. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Tuiksoo. I would now like to ask my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee, to speak on the floor. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U122	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad we have a lot of emotions here! And actually, when we think about this debate, we have also heard interesting thoughts here, not only those that should be ashamed of by one or the other. We are now starting to reach the point where we should actually start writing a bill. I've been thinking about my performance today, if not by a hundred, then I had to say ten times about what I'd talk about and how I'd talk about. Tonight I had this idea that I'm talking about what I'm talking about. My teacher once told me at school that in Estonian waters the only fish that builds a nest is a thorn. Today we are discussing the tax, or base tax, on the land of our home. We also discussed him yesterday and last week and the week before. In fact, home is immensely important not only for people but also for animals and birds and fish. But why did I start talking about the spike? The thing about ogals is that they, like all animal kingdoms, have their limits, their own territory, which they consider to be their own, which they protect and fight for. And when the thorns start fighting and fighting over borders, the one whose home, whose nest is closest, wins. It doesn't matter if he's bigger or smaller, the one whose home is closest wins. The proximity of the home gives the thorns such strength that he strikes the bigger fish out of there, repeating himself. We also fight here for our homes: who writes, who talks, who speaks here or there. The question of home is important and, of course, you have to take your hat off in front of the IRL, so they could put it in front of their campaign cart. I would also like to congratulate one of the IRL men here, and this is Jüri Adams, whose name has been heard several times in these days from this remote control. Maybe younger people don't know who Jüri Adams is. He is the man who wrote our current constitution in the Constitutional Assembly, not entirely alone, but under his leadership it was made. He was the Minister of Justice, during which our current legislative architecture developed. He always approached matters in this way and stressed in his article yesterday that ideology is important for every law: an idea for whom we are making the law. But we're talking details here, we're saying that one or the other should be ashamed of this or that detail, but we're not talking about the whole ideology we've left open. As we are not looking at what is happening around, what is being done in other countries, what is being treated as a 'home tax', it is then a land tax or real estate tax. There has been little talk about this issue here. That question will remain in the air, whether we adopt this law today or tomorrow or not. We have not agreed on how we behave on an idea level. As long as we do not agree on this key issue in this Chamber, we will not be able to produce a high-quality law that would make it good for most of us to live in Estonia. I stress once again what Jüri Adams says in this obituary about land tax: the abolition of land tax is pure populism. Pure populism! Whoever does this is one shame or another shame that should not be done. So what does Mr Adams think is happening now about the land tax? Believes that our Land Tax Act, the Land Valuation Act and other rules relating to this subject have not succeeded and should be carried out around. But we haven't dealt with it, we've dealt with populism. The Centre Party has been opposed to the draft being dealt with in this form and adopted in this form. Like the others, I read to you that everyone stays beautifully in history documents, why we still don't want to see the law. I do not want to see it because, in recent years, the government has cheated on municipalities on several occasions, reducing the compensation fund, reducing road savings, reducing the money allocated to youth sport and kindergartens. We have no reason to believe that the Reform Party and the IRL will behave differently this time. If the income base reduced by land tax were to be compensated, it would also be included in the text of the draft law. Unfortunately, it is feared that if the text of the bill is adopted in its current form, roads will not be repaired in Estonia, and municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children and those in need. Any member of the Riigikogu who hurts the heart for his own region must resist this. And I'm hurting my heart not only because of my neighborhood, but also because of what's going on in this hall. I'm not ashamed we're arguing about this, but I'm ashamed if we're doing a poor quality job here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U123	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. Mr Sven Mikser, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U124	Thank you, Sven Mikser! Next, please speak to Mailis Reps! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U125	Madam President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters! After all, everyone likes to reduce every tax at first glance. At the same time, without sufficient money, we will not be able to guarantee a well-functioning education and social system, external and internal security, as well as cultural continuity. The abolition of land tax will put local authorities in a position where they will have to look for additional resources to organise local life. Land tax is a state tax received directly by the municipality, and the local government has certainly taken account of this tax when designing the income base. In 2013, the land tax will no longer be paid to the local government in the amount that previously existed. As a result, what are the savings points of the local government that we lose as residents of the municipality and the city, we do not know today. Whether this loss outweighs the benefits we receive will soon be felt on our own. People have certain expectations about local government. This is mainly due to the development of public services, such as decent roads and streets, well-functioning kindergartens, schools, hobby groups, functioning utilities, social welfare and many more, which the local government must guarantee to its people and what people are used to getting, and to getting very good quality. The local government is obliged to provide the residents with maximum services for the money they collect. Unfortunately, local authorities have gained more responsibilities by law in recent years, but the state has not yet secured financial coverage for this, as required by the Local Government Organisation Act. This is already the case for municipalities with their income base, with the reform party and the bill to abolish the land tax imposed by the Union of Isamaa and Res Publica. Firstly, there is no compensation mechanism in this draft, which would provide assurance that the money will actually come. If the Prime Minister claims that this hole will be filled, the Minister of Finance is not so convinced of it. Who do you finally believe? There is no hope that the salaries of teachers, rescue workers and police officers will rise in the next four years. A number of areas are being cut and, among others, people in the cultural field are deeply concerned about meeting the next year. The question rightly arises that, if the situation is already critical, where the state will take money to compensate local authorities for the loss of income by losing land tax in practice. We know we're not just gonna have more money next year. It is more likely that the money will be reallocated, and the country will have several levers to do so. It is also always possible to reduce commitments. As we have seen in the years of the cut, the obligation to engage in kindergartens, youth sport and youth work at all has been abolished. We are therefore in a situation where the state gives with one hand and the other takes back quickly. For example, a landlord who pays 10 euros a year on land tax will certainly not be happy if 100 euros more is paid for electricity to win that 10 euros. How does all this fit into the picture when we know that Estonia has already committed itself to providing a sufficient income base for local authorities through the European Charter for Local Government ratified in 1994? Are government games with the revenue base compatible with the rule of law? I daresay so. The Supreme Court also reacted vigorously to the problems regarding the financial autonomy of cities and municipalities in its 16 March 2010 resolution No 341809. In particular, the Supreme Court recognises that there is uncertainty in the current law as to the definition of national and local tasks. Nor does the existing organisation of the financing of municipalities distinguish what kind of money is intended for municipalities to decide and organise local life issues and what kind of money is intended to fulfil the public obligations imposed by law. According to the judgment, the State is obliged to draw up the relevant legislation. In addition to the above, the Supreme Court stresses the stability of the local government financing system as an important value. A stable and previously known financing system will enable municipalities to develop and implement longer-term development plans with greater precision. A stable funding system is essential for independent decision-making and organisation of all issues of local life. The Supreme Court considers that unstable funding can subject the independence of local government units to the control of the state unnoticed. In the current difficult economic circumstances, it is local authorities that also face the main challenges, for example, in mitigating social setbacks and ensuring the stability of society. Finally, I note once again that in recent years, the government has already cheated on a number of occasions, reducing the compensation fund, reducing road savings, reducing money for youth sport and kindergartens. We have no reason to believe that the Reform Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance will behave differently in this bill. If the income base reduced by land tax were to be compensated, it would also be included in the draft law. Unfortunately, it is feared that, if the text of the bill is adopted in its current form, roads will not be repaired in Estonia, and the municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children, the elderly and those in need. Any member of the Riigikogu who hurts the heart for his own region must resist this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U126	Thank you, Mailis Reps! Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U127	Ladies and gentlemen, We will experience the third day of the sitting in a row, which will result in the implementation of the road roll policy. If the proceedings are to be dealt with with with an obvious breach of law and are to be turned into a law by the power of the majority and by excluding the opposition, then the opposition will have no choice but to try to convince you, with speeches and speeches, that this is not a good democratic practice. In addition, the draft law amending the Land Tax Act is a populist draft. This is not only said by the opposition, but also by sufficiently famous politicians of the IRL and Reform Party. The draft is populist because thousands of euros are won by the abolition of land tax, but the raising of taxes by another name must be accepted by all the budget holes must be filled. The draft is also populist because the biggest winners will be those whose need for aid is the least, but there will be considerable savings in paying aid and in the social sector at all in order to compensate for lost amounts. Where were today's homeowners' fighters when home expenses were deliberately increased to room temperature by four times the value added tax (VAT) or by adding an electric excise duty? Where were today's rhetorically worried about the elderly homeowners when funeral expenses and the return of pensions were made available on a need-based basis, i.e. to a few? The right answer is that the losers of today's land tax have only just told us that state support must only come to those who really need it. But when you lose the land tax, the greatest gifts will certainly be given to those who are not in need. The correct answer is also that by adding a price to the warm and electricity essential in winter, it was justified by the arguments that once you have obtained a home, you must be able to pay for it. Unfortunately, winter heating costs are also unavoidable in the apartment building at the edge of the city as well as while living in the former kolkhoz centre. And there are people living in these areas who won't win much from losing land tax. However, future tax increases must be swallowed up equally by those who win thousands of euros from the abolition of land tax. That is why the Central Party Group has proposed that if homeowners really want to help and there is free money in the budget for this, there are fairer ways than land tax exemptions. Speakers here, too, have made it clear that it is too Tallinn-centred and central to Tallinn's ring municipalities. Home expenses, however, are a problem for the whole of Estonia. A fairer way is, for example, to reduce VAT on heating bills. That's what we proposed. A reduction in VAT on heating costs would benefit every household during the heating period, such as the owner of a typical three-room apartment, about 10 euros per month. That's more than they win a year from losing land tax. The abolition of land tax may not be a win at all for many because the state has decided that it is not even worth collecting a tax of less than EUR 5. And I would like to remind you that very many municipalities have already introduced land tax exemptions for pensioners. So this tax exemption will not save them either, but further increases in other taxes will burden them. In addition to tax populism, this bill has an even bigger error: it seems increasingly clear that the abolition of land tax is not intended to compensate the cities and municipalities honestly. This is also referred to by the statement in this Chamber that, according to Chapter 14 of the Constitution, the coalition is, as if, directly, not obliged to compensate for the tax money taken away, that it is a free choice and a desire which may be decided in some form. It is obvious, however, that if there were a compensation mechanism, it would also be properly stated in the draft law and the corresponding expenditure planned in the state budget strategy. The spring economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance shows that even without any new cuts, the restoration of the revenue base of cities and rural municipalities has been postponed to 2015. The new cuts will only exacerbate uncertainty and uncertainty and delay the recovery of the revenue base to an indeterminate period. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U128	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U129	This question here is actually much wider than the Tallinn question alone. Self-government leaders across Estonia put the government departments to heart that instead of planning new cuts, the share of personal income tax on local budgets and the instruments for harmonising income should first be restored. This would amount to around EUR 50 million a year to organise local life, including income tax of EUR 30 million and the Equalisation Fund of EUR 20 million. These are sums that have already been taken from the municipalities by means of cuts. If we wanted to get out of the recession in such a way that our municipalities too can get on their feet, further cuts in the revenue base will certainly not help. The income base before the cut must be restored, and instead of the land tax being taken away, the parish parents are waiting for the old debt to be paid. I would like to give you an example of Pärnu Postimees, where the elder Kuno Erkmann of Paikuse parish expressed very clearly the position of the parish elders. The State reduced the amount of income tax received by the municipality from 11,93% to 11,4% and stated in the explanatory memorandum accompanying this move that, as a result of the reduction in the income base, the municipality does not have to take up to three years' old children or deal with the organisation of culture and sport. As far as I know, no municipality has been able to follow this recommendation because it is a stranger to life. Therefore, before further cuts are made, the previous cut must be restored. Andrus Ansip claimed in this Chamber that the loss of land tax would be compensated by increasing the share of income tax to 11.72%. But it's not half what the municipalities expect back! However, no other solution has been proposed. Jüri Adams, the party partner of the initiators of the bill, has made a clear assessment that this is a populist plan. The legitimisation of the abolition of land tax means that the weak line of independence on which local governments hang is cut halfway through. However, if the opinion of the IRL politician does not affect the Reform Party, listen again to Jürgen Ligi, who said that if it is found and proven that there is a social justification for releasing 1500 m2 of land tax, then the municipalities should be given a new opportunity to raise this money in another way. It is for the municipalities in particular, because Jürgen Ligi does not consider it right that the amount is simply compensated for by other taxpayers, i.e. the state budget. There is therefore no clear solution. In recent years, the government has defrauded municipalities on several occasions, reducing the compensation fund, reducing road savings money and reducing money for youth sports and kindergartens. We have no reason to believe that the same policy will not continue this time. The Centre Party Group proposes that the second reading of the draft be interrupted so that it can be properly included in the compensation mechanism. If you really want to do this, it is correct to record it in the law. I will now hand over the proposal to interrupt the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U130	Ladies and gentlemen, So far, no more calls, I'm closing the negotiations. We are now going to examine the amendments. The first amendment is proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U131	Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:00. Break's over. Before voting on the next proposal, I have a proposal to prepare for it. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the motion of the Socialist Party Group and the Centre Party Group to interrupt. Please take a stand and vote. 39 parliamentarians voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 51 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U132	I ask for this amendment to be voted on and I ask for ten minutes of intermission before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U133	Got it! Please also make this request in writing! Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U134	Ladies and gentlemen, As the Centre Party Group has proposed voting on the first amendment, we are preparing for the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 54 parliamentarians have voted in favour, 39 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The second amendment is tabled by the Centre Party Group and the proposal of the lead committee is to disregard it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U135	I ask for this amendment to be voted on and, before the vote, I ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U136	I would also like to ask for your request in writing. Our hearing will resume at 4:23 p.m. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U137	Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to vote on the second amendment, we are preparing for the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 39 delegates voted in favour, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment is tabled by the Centre Party Group and the proposal of the lead committee is to take this into account in part. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U138	I ask for this amendment to be voted on. This amendment could be fully taken into account. And before the vote, we ask for ten minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U139	Ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing for the next voting procedure. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Centre Party Group. Please take a stand and vote. 37 delegates voted in favour, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was therefore not supported. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Centre Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U140	Since this fourth proposal could actually be taken into account, I ask you to vote on it. Before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of intermission!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U141	That's great! We're waiting for a written statement. Our hearing will resume at 4:47 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U142	Before we go to the vote on the fourth amendment, we are preparing for the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Centre Party Group. Please take a stand and vote. 38 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have examined the amendments tabled to the second reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax. A proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft 51 has been received from the Social Democratic Party Group and the Centre Party Group. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U143	Please submit your wish in writing! Our hearing will resume at 4:35 p.m. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U144	A procedural question! I don't have the agenda we're working on right now, and I can't get anywhere. I don't know what day we're on. Can the Board of the Riigikogu give me a normal agenda? I don't understand anything!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U145	I have a proposal to make a yellow sheet of paper on your desk and try to read it according to the skill you acquired at school. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. Aivar Riisalu, second procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U146	I got this paper, and I've got this point on Tuesday, 14 June that I'm gonna have to vote on. But it's Wednesday, June 15th.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U147	In accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act, the debate on the item is automatically delayed when it has taken a very long time to reflect and negotiate. The Bureau approved this at its meeting yesterday. Let us now proceed to the vote. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U148	In order to ensure that there are 56 people in the Chamber or how many of you there are representatives of the government departments to understand that it would be reasonable to interrupt the draft, please, before the vote, ten minutes of break!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U149	Ten minutes recess, session adjourned at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U150	We come to the next item, which is the second reading of the Bill amending the Income Tax Act 40. But before I ask for Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Commission, I ask for peace in the Chamber! Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at the meeting of the Commission on 9 June. Marko Talur, chief specialist at the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, also attended the meeting of the Commission. The Commission discussed the amendments received, the first of which was submitted by the Centre Party and its content consisted of replacing section 1 (1) of the draft and thereby amending Section 23 of the Income Tax Act and setting the amount of tax-free income at EUR 2040 from 2015 instead of the current EUR 1728. There was a longer debate in the Commission on this proposal. The applicant explained that the increase in tax-free income would have a better impact on the low-paid, while the higher-paid would again benefit from a 1% reduction in income tax. He was contradicted by claiming that the higher the tax-free minimum, the lower the tax base and, in general, it is not right to push persons out of the tax base. The initiator of the amendment was also asked how the situation of companies could improve if such a proposal were to pass. The reduction in income tax is known to improve the situation of both employees and businesses. The representative of the proposers explained that improving the situation of companies is not the aim of this proposal. There were 5 Commission members in favour of the amendment and 6 against, so it was not supported by the Commission. The Commission also discussed the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Its content was to delete § 1 (1) of the draft law. There was no longer any debate about this, as I recall. The Commission voted in favour of the proposal by 5, against 6 members of the Commission. The third amendment, which was also tabled by the Social Democrats, was to limit the deduction of interest on housing loans or leases only. The initiator of the proposal explained that the purpose of such a correction was not to reduce the possibility of deduction of training costs but to limit specifically the interest related to housing loans. This was contested by the Commission, and the newcomer of the draft, or government representative, felt that it was unreasonable to impose different limits on the different deductions. There was also the question that, if such internal differentiation of deductions takes place, how would the tax administration administer it? Does this increase the costs of the IRS? The author of the amendment felt that it would not increase. The question was also about the legitimate expectations of borrowers. Members of the Commission considered that such a situation could not be justified where tax incentives would be expected to apply forever. There was a counter-argument that the structural distinction between mortgage interest rates could cause substantive problems, even if Euribor was to rise in one year and fall in the second year. A representative of the Ministry of Finance was also opposed to this amendment. The internal differentiation of the deduction threshold significantly alters the logic of the existing deductions and leads to unjustified unequal treatment of persons. There were 4 members in favour of this amendment and 6 members in favour of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The fourth amendment, as well as proposed by the Social Democrats, was to delete the word "directly" in § 1 (7) of the draft. The applicant explained that the word "directly" kills the beautiful purpose of the provision. There was a longer debate on this subject. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, who initiated the draft, explained that the wording proposed in the draft was intended to exclude the exemption of non-work-related costs. An example is the reimbursement of school loans spent for non-target purposes. The question was that if the problem of student loans is so great, it could be arranged for student loans to be granted. Various examples were considered. For example, the question arose as to whether the employer could train a mason building engineer, free of special preferential tax. The response of the Ministry of Finance, who initiated the draft, was that if it was agreed that it would be his next job, then yes. There was also the question that if the word "directly" was taken out of paragraph 1 (7), could it have a negative impact on the pension fund and on the income of the sickness fund. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that this would certainly happen, but even more so by excluding the word "directly" into disputes. Various examples of practice were also discussed. The result of the vote was 3 in favour of this amendment, 6 against the Committee on Monetary Affairs and 1 abstention. Lastly, the Commission considered Amendment No 5, which had come from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry as a written address. The Chamber of Commerce saw the problem of the fact that in practice the members of the management body of a legal person in a micro enterprise often perform other functions than the management function. For example, they have taken on marketing or financial management. For this purpose, no separate contract of employment shall be concluded under the contract of a member of the management board, while the duties of a member of the management board may require completion of the level training. This justification seemed logical to the Commission and the Commission was in favour of the amendment of this proposal and its inclusion in the draft proposal, with this clarification, so that persons such as liquidators and insolvency practitioners, who also have the status of a control or management body of a legal person, should be excluded, while the issue of level training is clearly irrelevant in this context. The Committee on Monetary Affairs decided by consensus to support this change. The Commission proposes to conclude the second reading of the draft and, if the second reading can be completed today, to carry out the third reading tomorrow, 16 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U152	Thank you very much for the waitress. You have a few questions registered. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U153	Thank you. Dear waitress, This bill makes it clear that you estimate that the Estonian state will have over EUR 70 million in 2015 and that it is intended to provide tax relief for those who receive a salary. The Centre Party's proposal has been that if individuals are to have EUR 70 million less income tax collected, it would be more reasonable to increase the tax-free minimum. It's a win-win for everyone, but first and foremost, people who earn average wages or lower. Did you also ask for an analysis of how much relatively higher income would be received by a low-income person compared to the option you proposed, i.e. a reduction in income tax from 21% to 20% and the proposed amendment to raise the tax-free minimum?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U154	I have seen quite a lot of serious analyses by the OECD and other similar institutions of how direct taxes can affect the overall business climate. My understanding is that income tax is one of the most burdensome taxes on business. At the same time, the reduction in the percentage of income tax affects the recipients in exactly the same way as it affects businesses. Once again, analyses have shown that lowering income tax has a positive impact on entrepreneurship. I'm sure you know that money, tax revenue, doesn't come from anywhere but what companies produce. And the added value is especially created by companies selling goods abroad. And on the basis of these analyses, I am even more convinced today that the reduction in income tax will have a positive impact on the business climate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U155	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U156	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Why do you not want to make Estonia's financial policy more coherent and fairer than a reduction in income tax, which does not affect small-income pensioners, students and many others? We know that Luxembourg, for example, has 17 tax levels, Finland 5, Italy and Belgium 5, America 4, Portugal 8 and so on. Why do we want to be like Russia, Romania and the Bahamas, for example, in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U157	I certainly do not agree with this approach. In Estonia, a proportional income tax system was introduced in 1993 and I had the honour of working in the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance at the time. I was convinced then that this was the right way. Then Estonia was a pioneer; Russia had not yet established a proportionate tax system. It has been a long time now, but today I am even more convinced that the decision that was made at the end of 1993 has fully justified itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U158	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U159	Thank you. Honourable performer! As I recall, when you were in the People's Union, you had a second position on progressive income tax. But that's it. I wanted to ask you this: it was the impression that during the Commission's work there was a series of disputes and there was not a very unanimous view of this law. You don't respect that much, either, as you say. Maybe we should postpone the discussion of this law into the autumn. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U160	First of all, I would like to remind you that I have never been an advocate of progressive income tax, regardless of whether I have been in politics or an official or have worked in the private sector. That is certainly something I would like to emphasise here. But at the time I was Minister of Finance as a member of the People's Union, the government unanimously adopted a state budget strategy with the aim of reducing income tax even to 18%. So we still have a long way to go. At the time, there was also the Centre Party in the government, and your party chairman was the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. I would like to stress once again that the government approved the budgetary strategy by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U161	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Do you also have the opinion of the taxpayers' association on this bill? And if it is, can you comment on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U163	Yes, the taxpayer's association was of the opinion that, in fact, they have been of the opinion in the past that a reduction in interest on mortgage loans cannot be supported. They have written a letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs on this subject and it is certainly available.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U164	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good answer! During the debate on the draft on the previous agenda, there was a nice rhetoric, especially from the initiators, that there would be an election promise that it would be promised to the people. On this draft, I tried to find something among the electoral promises that would reduce interest rate refunds. I couldn't find that promise! What is the reason now for this unexpected draft to reduce interest rate refunds so much?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U166	The Coalition Agreement between the Reform Party and the IRL is beautifully up on the website of the Government of the Republic and it reads: to limit the deduction of interest on housing loans from 1 January 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U167	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U168	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! That is the question: do you not sense a certain internal contradiction in this draft? Yesterday we discussed here in this Chamber why it is not possible to raise the salaries of rescuers, policemen and teachers, today we are discussing how we give up a lot of money, divide by five kroons. Do you really think this is the right time to take such a step? Maybe we could wait a few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U169	It is, of course, difficult to understand your question as to what particular proposal or provision you have in mind. It has been said here that, just as some drafts support the rich more and some drafts support the opposite. The current draft clearly reduces the right to deduct interest on housing loans for borrowers with higher than average housing loans. In my opinion, this means that they are also recipients of higher salaries. The draft therefore limits the advantage granted to persons with a higher level of income.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U170	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U171	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! My question relates to the Central Party's proposal, which was based on IMF recommendations. Tell me, were the IMF recommendations discussed at the Commission meeting? And what doesn't satisfy you about the IMF approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U172	The IMF has made a wide range of proposals and it is certainly worth following as much as possible from the national policies of each country. The reduction of direct taxes is certainly one of the factors contributing to entrepreneurship, which has been repeatedly emphasised by the OECD. A month ago, we had a visit from the OECD and presented our report. The Committee on Monetary and Economic Affairs met with them. I myself asked one representative of the organisation how he felt about reducing the value added tax (VAT) on foodstuffs, to set a tax rate different from the standard rate on foodstuffs. Does this act as a factor in lowering food prices? He told me straight on that, so it would be stupid. In general, I believe that, in the main, in line with the IMF and OECD recommendations, draft No 40 is in line with the recommendations of the countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U173	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U174	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I like principled people like you. You argued that you have always been a pro-proportional advocate of income tax, both as a politician and as an official. I know a gentleman who still has a portrait of Lenin hanging in his office. That's his principle. You consider it appropriate to have a proportionate income tax and, under no circumstances, are in favour of a progressive one. But, in fact, in Estonia, progressive income tax is now the first step, i.e. the tax-free minimum, is exempt. If you are such an ardent opponent of progressive income tax, perhaps you also intend to abolish this small first-rate income tax exemption?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U175	When it comes to discussing Lenin's pictures and recalling the nostalgia of the Soviet era, I will respond to them, as required by the regulation, by restricting myself to what the Commission was discussing. Yeah, I like principled people, too. And the fact that we have a tax-free minimum, I don't see any problem here. We have a proportional income tax system and the tax-free minimum is currently EUR 1728 per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U176	Thank you very much. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U177	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Income tax reductions started at 26%, and gradually this rate is decreasing to 20%. Such a shrinking sequence. And today you already mentioned a plan to lower it to 18%. In fact, there are more progressive examples: our eastern neighbour has income tax if memory does not deceive me, 13%. It would be interesting to know your opinion, as former Minister of Finance, as to what kind of income tax our country, our business and our population still suffer? What number are we going to? What can be the ideal? 18%, 13%, 0%?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U178	Thank you for your question. I would not only compare us with our eastern neighbour, although while I was still working for the IRS, we had very good cooperation with the Russian tax administration, and there have been positive memories since then. But I brought along a KPMG report on corporate tax rates in the world. We were only talking about Russia here, but here you are, there are rates in 2010: in Cyprus, corporate income tax was 10%, in China 17%, in Hong Kong 16.5%, in Hungary 19%, in Ireland 12.5%, in Latvia 15%, in Lithuania 15%. At the same time Finland has reached 26%, but in the past it was even higher. So I can assure you that this is a global trend to reduce direct taxes and raise indirect ones. The global economic crisis slowed it down, the countries currently struggling with serious budgetary problems and are not very free in their fiscal policy decisions. I would conclude that there is a global tax competition in a good way and we are also in this competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U179	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns § 1 (1) of this draft, which talks about a reduction in income tax from 21% to 20%. It has been said here that it will be valid from 2015. My question is: why is it necessary to adopt this law in the first half of 2011? I do not know, you, or even Prime Minister Ansip, what the economic state of Estonia will be in 2015 like in Estonia. Why do we need to take this decision now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U181	Public finance planning is several years ahead and we have various economic forecasts. The latter came out of Eesti Pank today and is even more optimistic than the spring forecast of the Ministry of Finance. So we can still make forecasts, and we do not need to plan finances only in the context of next year's budget, but a little longer in advance. With this knowledge, we will be able to achieve fiscal balance in 2013 and 2014 and start building up reserves. This important work was in progress due to the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U182	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I come back to my previous question because I did not get an answer. You politely advised me to read the coalition agreement somewhere on the website. However, the coalition treaty was forged after the elections and there are all sorts of things that were not allowed before the elections. My question, however, was that when the voter was asked for a vote, it was not warned that we were going to reduce your interest rate refunds significantly, both in the case of home loans and in the case of training costs. The question was, however, that I did not find it in previous promises. Yeah, there are all sorts of things in the coalition agreement after all, and I've read them. Why wasn't the campaign warned about this earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U184	Thank you for your question. I remember pretty well the years 2005 and 2006, when the real estate boom was emerging and gaining strength. At the time, as Minister of Finance, I sent a draft to the coordination round, which wanted to limit the deduction of interest on housing loans. At that time, however, the situation was a little different. No one believed that the economic crisis following the real estate boom would be so severe. We were a little afraid that such a situation might arise, and so we submitted such a draft, and it also went to the coordination circle. But to my surprise, the ministries, including the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which was led by the chairman of your party, were categorically opposed to this, although it was clear that the real estate boom would come and the state would have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U185	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U186	Thank you. Honourable performer! In answer to one question, you blew up a sentence that some laws protect the richest and some protect the poor. Could you give an example of the recent draft laws of the Reform Party that protect the poor?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U187	Thank you for that question. I asked the Ministry of Finance for statistics on income declarations and deductions for the previous year, but the statistics for 2010 are not yet available and I received the 2009 statistics. According to this, the average amount of interest on the mortgage, which was deducted in the declaration, was EUR 1300. That's a lot of money. The draft that we are currently dealing with limits the deduction to EUR 1920. The draft therefore affects those mortgage borrowers whose interest rate is significantly higher than that average, and these are undoubtedly recipients of higher income. Their advantage is limited by the current draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U188	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U189	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You said that this law, in particular, by reducing income tax, also supports entrepreneurship. At the same time, we are also in the process of amending the law on the special labelling of liquid fuel, with the adoption of which the support for business or, let us say, the state's contribution to business will be significantly reduced. Have you calculated and discussed in the Commission what the weight of both of these changes is? How much support is there for entrepreneurship to reduce personal income tax and how much will it lose as a result of abandoning special liquid fuel labelling?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U190	I have a suggestion that we stick to discussing the provisions of the draft 40 in our debate. However, as regards the law on the special labelling of liquid fuel, on Monday, when the Minister of Finance responded to the enquiries here, he said that the reform of the special labelling system is the replacement of the stupid support system that has been in place so far with a more effective one. That's what he just said. I would not like to use such expressions as a member of the new Riigikogu, but basically I agree with the Minister of Finance. In any case, the current system for the specific labelling of liquid fuel has fallen in the way of time and it is necessary to replace it with a new and better one.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U191	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U192	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You said you were a categorical opponent of progressive income tax. However, you know that this system, which you are opposed to, could bring double money to our state budget, and you do not object to that. On the other hand, you know that it is as if it proves the development of solidarity in our society, and you cannot oppose it. Otherwise, you would also be opposed to less division and fewer poor people. Please say specifically: what are you against and why? Why are you so concerned about our proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U193	Thank you. If we reduce personal income tax, it will affect all the poor, but the rich will win from it. This wins the poor, it wins the employees, it wins the employers. But I do not agree with the argument that progressive income tax doubles tax revenue. I can't imagine what this graduated income tax system should be like to make it happen. I don't know what these steps are supposed to be. It's unreal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U194	Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U195	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, We have heard from this very chair that a stable tax system is a European value in itself and Europe is of the opinion that taxes are not being played. I think something's changed. Is Europe suddenly starting to think differently, or does our government not want to be in Europe, or is there some more interesting explanation why we are trying to make such playful changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U196	I don't see any playful change on the table today. The income tax system in its main content and nature remains the same, and I hope for a long time to come. I do not see an equivalent alternative to a proportional income tax system in the form of a graduated income tax system. Of course, the economic crisis has certainly affected countries and, as I have already said, countries are much more involved in their fiscal policy decisions than before the crisis. As we know, most of the countries of the European Union are suffering from a serious debt crisis, and one of the reasons is that I am also expressing my personal opinion here on the inefficient tax system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U197	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U198	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! It is probably no secret to you or to us that a reduction in the income tax rate will benefit more people with higher incomes. The lower the wage, the lower the gain from the reduction in the income tax rate in real money. What is your position: maybe instead of reducing the tax rate by 1%, it is more reasonable or more appropriate to increase the tax-free minimum?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U199	That is not my position, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support this proposal either. I'm definitely not in favour of this! We may also consider raising the tax-free minimum, but if we have one or the other in question, the proposal should be in favour of reducing the tax burden on companies, not only individual employees, but also companies. In our current economic environment, there is an urgent need to promote the economy so that the country also receives more tax revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U200	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When you answered my previous question, I realized that the Reform Party still lacks any principles. You are talking about the remote as appropriate under this item. When you raised VAT overnight, you said that tax policy needs to make rapid decisions, but today you are saying that tax policy decisions must be taken at length. Extreme duplicity! But here's my question. If a person earns 400 euros a month, he or she will win less than 4 euros from a reduction in the tax percentage. If a person earns 10000 euros a month, he wins over 90 euros. So it's 4 euros and 90 euros in simple mathematics. Hence the question: Which really wins more money? Is it the one who made 400 euros or the one who made 10,000 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U202	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the higher the income, the higher the amount of tax that must be transferred. That is how this proportionate tax system works. However, I do not agree with the assumption that you put your question in the preamble. That's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U203	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U204	It's pretty interesting to listen! I have a simple question. You are also the most experienced tax manager in the committee, who we have to take in the Riigikogu. I am interested in the new provision on level training in the form it is written in the draft. Where are those boundaries on black white anyway? Let's say a person has a contract of employment and works in any position in the company, and the employer is committed to paying his or her training costs, and that is all that is stated in the contract of employment. In addition to the mandatory provisions, it is also stated that the employer pays for the costs of his or her level of training, just all types of courses and other forms of training. Does the tax authority consider this to be a special advantage or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U205	Thank you for your question. No tax authority will immediately give you an answer as to whether or not it is a special advantage without asking whether or not it is a level training related to an employment relationship. Today's draft is a big step forward. The current Income Tax Act states directly that training at a level is subject to a special benefit tax. Draft 40 proposes exempting employment-related level training from special benefit income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U206	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U207	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe we were talking a little bit about each other first. I didn't really ask for your assessment of the liquid fuel special labelling law. But you said that it was important to reduce the tax burden on companies and that there was a need for economic recovery. I asked whether the impact of the 40 drafts under consideration on business had been analysed in relation to the impact of the other drafts under consideration. Has such a comparative analysis been carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U208	I do not know what other analyses are needed in addition to this impact analysis, which is in the draft explanatory memorandum. Once again, the impact of direct taxes on the business environment can be found in a wide range of OECD analyses. The opinion of serious experts is that the share of direct taxes could be reduced and the share of indirect taxes increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U209	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We are currently dealing with two draft sister laws in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. One is the Land Tax Exemption Act for homeowners, which reduces taxes, but at the same time we do not know how local authorities will act. It has not been clearly stated how the compensation mechanism works. However, with this draft law amending the Income Tax Act, we do not know in advance how the economic market will behave in 2015. Four years ago, when there was an economic boom, we lowered the income tax rate and later realized that this was a mistake instead of raising the rate and collecting more reserves into the Treasury. Aren't you afraid that now, too, the rate legalized four years earlier may turn out to be detrimental to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U211	I'm not afraid, there's a short and concrete answer. However, as far as the Land Tax Act is concerned, we have been discussing this for two days. Why don't we just drop the subject and stick to the Income Tax Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U212	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U213	Thank you, Madam President. My question does not concern income tax in the direct sense, my question concerns the taxation of forest owners. Today, private forest owners who have registered as self-employed have been exempted from income tax for EEK 40,000 per year. I ask: would it not be easier to extend this idea to people who have not made themselves self-employed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U214	I don't think so! Forest undertakings may choose, as they wish, whether to act as individuals, as self-employed persons or as private limited companies and manage their forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U215	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U216	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! We know that in 2007 the Government Union Treaty set out the objective of reducing the income tax rate to 18% by this year. Fortunately, the economic crisis has come into being and this thinness of the country has been cancelled. The reduction in the income tax rate is now on the agenda again. What, then, is the government's far-reaching objective of reducing the rate of income tax: is it 20%, 18 or 15%, or is it going to be abolished in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U217	Thank you. Let's just say I can't predict far, and I wouldn't take any prognosis very seriously that goes beyond four to five years. Forecasts can also be made for 15 and 20 years, but the forecast drawn up in the current knowledge shows that a reduction in the income tax rate in 2015 is reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U218	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U219	Thank you. Good waitress! Please relax, we're not picking on you, we're asking questions about the bill. That is why I repeat my question about the level training you are an expert in this field. What are the parameters on the basis of which the tax authority can determine with certainty that this or the second level of training is linked to the employment relationship? I wish it were clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U220	I think, Honourable Asker, that you understand very well that it is not possible to draw up a list of all the parameters that confirm that one specific training relates to a particular employment relationship, to the activities of a particular company.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U221	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I promise I won't touch the land tax anymore. I understand it hurts you. So I'm going to ask you about the Income Tax Act. Does it really matter what the Estonian state does with the income tax rate, whether it lowers or increases? What do you think: if there is an economic increase in 2015, is it good that we are going to lower the tax rate? Or, for example, if employment in the labour market has fallen and the economy is falling, is it good that we are lowering the tax rate? Has it not been predicted and analysed at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U223	Honourable questioner! Economic forecasts are still being made with today's knowledge, and indeed, the current forecast shows that we will have an economic growth in the coming years. But no one is safe from the new crisis, nor are we isolated from the world economy here. We are part of the global economy, we are very involved in it and we are affected by any turbulence, any crisis. But at the moment, it can certainly be said that the budgetary strategy adopted by the government is very sensible and helps to promote both the economy and the well-being of all people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U224	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U225	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Here's the question. The OECD has often been mentioned here when dealing with different laws. Speaking of land tax, the Prime Minister also said that the OECD should not be heard. In particular, the OECD recommended increasing the land tax and improving the financial discipline of the local government. You confirmed that the OECD has recommended a reduction in income tax, and that is what we are following. What are the coalition criteria when it decides whether or not to follow one or the other OECD recommendation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U226	Once again, we have been discussing land tax here for two days, so let it go and go on with our agenda. I do not agree that the Prime Minister has put it exactly as you said: we do not take any advice into account. It is certainly worth taking into account the recommendations of the OECD and other equivalent institutions. But 100% cannot and cannot be counted by any country in the world. But it is worth taking into account, and that is what the Estonian state has done.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U227	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U228	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I am in solidarity with my colleague Nestor. I feel like you're a little upset, too. Maybe you think we're picking. We're not picking. On the one hand, you say no one can predict what will happen in five years. But on the other hand, you're not afraid that anything bad will happen. I am pleased that our Committee on Monetary Affairs is represented by such a courageous and perceptive person. But I have a question from another area. This law will enter into force in 2015, i.e. its impact will be borne by the next government. Would it not be more honest with the coalition if it enforced this law in 2014 so that it can experience how the budget is drawn up for lower income tax and what problems arise from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U229	Thank you, Honourable Asker. You have not read this bill carefully. The Act enters into force on 1 January 2012. The year 2015 applies only to one provision. But that's it. I am not afraid that the validity of this provision has been incorrectly put in place, which is certainly a weighted decision. The current economic forecasts made in today's knowledge have been taken into account, and I believe that this is all in line with a very important objective. If I can say my own personal opinion, this will enable us to restore the budgetary balance as quickly as possible and to start gathering reserves that were broken during the economic crisis. I mentioned here a previous government in which your party chairman was the Minister of Economic Affairs. It was, in fact, a good government, the majority of the reserves currently available under this government were collected, and the government as a whole did a very good job, even though it did not want to restrict interest on mortgage loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U230	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U231	Thank you. Good waitress! I had a little question about tax theory. At the beginning of your presentation, you confirmed that reducing income tax will help both businesses and ordinary people. Does VAT affect businesses and other people in any way, such as the rise of a few per cent?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U232	Honourable questioner! Every tax both disturbs businesses and annoys people as well, but unfortunately we cannot support the country without them, and maintaining the country is not cheap. However, as far as the reduction of the tax burden is concerned, income tax is by its nature more disturbing than any other type of tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U233	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U234	Thank you. You mentioned that this once was a good government. It was a really good government, where you were a minister, and so was Savisaar. But we didn't cut the income tax back then. Why do you want to be a bad government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U235	As far as I know, this government has taken on the goal of reducing income tax, and the strategy that we have not yet reached was approved at that time. But right now, this is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U236	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U237	Thank you. Good waitress! There was a small debate on this in the Committee on Finance, and you also pointed out in front of this Chamber that one of the reasons why the Reform Party does not support an increase in the tax-free minimum is that the tax base or the number of persons paying the tax is decreasing. Is that only the central position of one draft or the overall position? I am thinking here of abolishing one of the taxes discussed today. Is this view always valid, or only if it is convenient?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U238	I think you're talking about land tax again. Once again, let's cut to the chase! We have been discussing land tax for two days, let us not dissect any more whether the abolition of the tax on the land under the dwelling will reduce the tax base or not. Let's move on to income tax and make up our minds!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U239	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U240	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, We've developed a small seminar on history at the other end of this hall. A good colleague, Marika Tuus, says that in this government, where Savisaar was also present, income tax was not reduced, but it was frozen. You confirm the other way around. So who's right? We need to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U241	Once again, the government, whose activities I recalled, approved a budgetary strategy which aimed to reduce income tax from the current percentage to the 18th. There you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U242	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U243	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Since the lion's part of the questions does not concern the draft that is being discussed for any reason, since I am perhaps the last questioner, I will give you the opportunity: perhaps you want to tell the opposition something else that is either related to this draft or even if it is not, it may help them to understand what is being spoken about in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U244	My proposal is certainly to support this bill. This draft resolves quite a number of practical issues that are currently pending in our tax system. My proposal is to adopt this bill as a law this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U245	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Aivar Sõerd. Let's get to the negotiations. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U246	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we all understand, the Government of the Republic wishes to make such a move with this legislative amendment that the income tax rate has been reduced from 21% to 20% since 2015. And, as was clear in today's debate, this will be done regardless of whether there will be an economic increase in Estonia in 2015; we can even call it a boom, as has been predicted, or there will be a new economic decline in Estonia. This actually raises doubts and is completely unacceptable. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip pointed out here, recalling the times four years ago, that the Estonian state should have raised the tax rates so as to collect reserves from the revenue of the state budget, which could be used during the economic downturn. Maybe we'll have the same situation again. This bill seeks to lose 70 million euros per year from the Estonian state's purse, which is far from a small amount. We all know that the situation in Estonia is far from so good that the salaries of teachers are at a level, as well as those of police and rescue workers. 70 million euros a year is also a large sum for the Estonian state and, of course, if this income is lost, the Estonian state does not have the money to share. As far as the income tax rate is concerned, no analysis has been submitted together with this bill as to why it is being reduced from 21% to 20%. Why has the government coalition not decided to reduce the tax rate further? Why is the limit 20, why not 19%? But that's it. And when it comes to the fact that the Estonian state wants to give a small gift to the recipients in the form that they will have more money by lowering this rate, the Central Party Group has proposed to amend this draft. In our view, the tax rate should not be reduced but increased to a tax-free minimum. The Centre Party Group has proposed to increase the tax-free minimum from 2015 to EUR 2040 per year. It has been said that the government coalition does not take into account the proposals made by the International Monetary Fund. I would like to remind you that from this very chair, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has said that the International Monetary Fund really recommended in its report that Estonia deepen the progressiveness of personal income tax, namely by increasing the rate of tax-free income. A reduction in tax incentives was proposed as a possible source of financial cover. The proposal can, in principle, be accepted in the medium term, as an increase in the tax-free rate would, in particular, alleviate the tax burden on lower-paid taxpayers. Andrus Ansip has also said from this same speech chair that a tax-free minimum has been established to improve the situation of people with lower incomes and in the Republic of Estonia the tax-free minimum should be increased in the future. Those are the words of our Prime Minister. Speaking of statistics, according to the Estonian Labour Force Survey, there were economically active 68690 in 2010 among the working-age population, with 570900 employed. On the basis of the 2011 spring economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, employment will increase to 600700 people by 2013. The increase in the tax-free minimum thus affects a total of 900000 people. Why have we proposed to introduce this change from 2015? Because if the Government of the Republic has made some projections for the development of the state budget strategy and budget, this would not lead to any significant changes. Taking all this into account, the Centre Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Bill amending the Income Tax Act 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U247	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U248	I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U249	Ladies and gentlemen, Everything that has to be said on this subject is serious and practical, and Inara has already turned it down. I wouldn't have come here on the remote, but the waitress from the Committee on Monetary Affairs knew how to blame me for not reading the bill. That's why I'm here and I'm going to tell you what analogy I have when I see drafts like this. Last night, for example, I accidentally read a book by an early medieval alchemist, where the author gives a lot of recipes on how to cure one or another disease. They talk about black dog blood and dried toad, but these are not the most exotic measures. For example, against a thousand diseases, you had to help the beaver to speak politely? The test shall be carried out Male beavers had a very difficult life because they were hunted to take away the most important part of their body. This alchemist relates in the book that when the beaver saw that the hunters were right behind him, then to survive, he chewed them off himself, left them on the ground, and fled. And survived. But what happened when that male beaver met the hunter again? According to the alchemist, the animal then turned on its back and showed that it had nothing of value anymore. Guys, these are the same kind of drafts. You understand perfectly well that the country has other tasks besides securing another victory for the government departments in the elections. Education and medicine, for example, need to be guaranteed. Each area requires funding. You're taking and throwing billions of dollars again. You're like these beavers, and if you're being followed again, you're gonna turn your back and show that there's nothing we already gave it all away. I don't understand who's going to benefit from this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U250	Thank you! Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U251	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in the Chamber? The Riigikogu is a great place, you get smarter here all the time. I was really surprised when MP Lenk from next to me asked the Commission's waitress a simple question. He mentioned that some tax changes would affect people on higher incomes and some people on lower incomes, and asked for one change that would please those on lower incomes. The Commission's rapporteur then referred to this downgrading of the loan interest to be deducted from income. It's like it's a pleasure for someone with a lower income. I don't know, are they still happy now that those who earn more and have bought an apartment can no longer deduct that much from their income? I don't think so. But then I thought God knows, maybe it is. Suddenly, these people, with a higher income, were very happy when VAT was raised to the right, pay now! It's probably not that bad. Both those people on lower incomes and those on high incomes still take tax laws as serious documents. Here I have two or three brief points. In principle, if there is room to bring down the tax rate on labour costs and, for example, to reduce income tax, the principle that the tax-free minimum should be increased before that percentage must certainly be supported. That makes more sense! I'd definitely be in favour of that! Unfortunately, there is probably no room in 2015. However, since this proposal has been made, I assure you that, in principle, the direction is right and I am happy to vote in favour of it. And that we still need EUR 70 million, the half of the hall that is currently represented here with three people, will see in a few months. Today, when the budget is made for next year, we have already received a serious message from the Minister for Finance that if some ministries do not carry their own expenditure within the limits allowed, they will do so themselves. Which means the rest of the ministries, if you'll excuse me, will be disbanded and it's ugly about them. I've had these disputes myself, and I've announced that the Ministry will have to be dissolved when they sit in the Ministry of Finance. It's not like that! So the state budget is not being drawn up, it is a government budget, it is not a finance minister's budget. But this 70 million euros is also missing when this bill is already in the Riigikogu. There is certainly no shortage of this amount in 2015. As far as deductions are concerned, indeed, it must be said that the idea is right for the government: this ceiling must be brought down. But why, at the same time, should we punish the people who are now giving at the fingertips and those who are happy to train themselves or anyone else? I see no reason why we should punish them. This is not about loan booms or any other threat, and I would allow them to continue to do so. Our amendment is very pragmatic and practical. The government's goal would be fulfilled, and these people would not feel irritated at all. But the most serious thing I'm talking about is this issue that an experienced taxman doesn't want to answer. And he can't answer because he has nothing to say on the basis of this text. Let me give you a simple example. Let's say I'm the employer and I'm hiring a good man. One thing is clear from this bill: a person is hired and a contract of employment is made with him wherever he works. He/she undertakes to complete a level training course; the employer undertakes to pay for this training. And the end of the contract is written that once he has completed this training, he will take up this and this post. Sign here. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U252	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U253	Signatures are signed, everything is right, the person completes this training within the prescribed period, the level training costs are paid and he/she takes up his/her job. Here, I understand, the tax authorities and the employer will not have a problem. But here's the next question. Am I still gonna make this deal? How do I know if a person is going through this training? If it lasts four or five years, do I have a job for him? And what happens if he doesn't take the place that's in the contract? You see, situations like this come in practice and the wording that is in the draft government, I would like to emphasise once again, raises more questions than the option that we have always proposed. Let's get these restrictive factors out of there, then the room's wider! Believe me, in the end, the figures also speak a clear language: the profit that comes from this for the development of Estonia and for companies and their employees is many times greater than the enormous fear that suddenly, the devil, someone will do something. I won't! They have a mind in their heads. So support our change, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U254	Thank you! I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Aivar Riisalu! Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U255	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Again, I thought that after my speech yesterday, which became very passionate, I would not come to the stand for another two weeks, but listening to this tax debate, I thought that I would like to talk a little bit about it. After all, today is the day that I can express my personal views. On the one hand, my heart is throbbing with joy, I would like to thank the Reform Party and the Government Coalition sincerely, because my dividend tax rate is falling by a percentage from 2015 onwards. Since I'm paying myself a lot of dividends, I'm winning a lot of money. For this great bow to the Reform Party, you should seriously consider making a donation to you. At the same time, I think that in 2015 I will no longer be able to enter the Riigikogu and will again receive 7 000 kroons of the salary of a member of the board of directors of my company. The state gets a little bit of social tax and maybe some other tax, but it doesn't get any more from me, especially from me. And that's for the simple reason that my company is doing very badly at a time when it pays my salary. I can't afford a big salary because it's smart. And then again I thank the Reform Party, which has come up with a tax system that changes all the time, the tax rates keep decreasing. But then I get in a bad mood at the same time, because I remember that, under the smart leadership of the Reform Party, electricity excises have been raised; under the smart leadership of the Reform Party, it has been forced to switch to a free market for electricity, which has affected not only the price of electricity in my home but also significantly increased the cost of energy carriers in my business. I also recall that the diesel fuel of my car, I have never been able to buy a petrol car, costs as much as in Finland, but in Finland, an entrepreneur like me gets five times more money, because there are considerably more beautiful traditions and capitalism. When I put it all together, my happiness is still there, but it's not that bright anymore, because at this point I'm met by my neighbor, who hasn't been able to work in the first place in a while, and who maybe only spends the summer doing some kind of seasonal work. At the same time, he gives me the indulgence to assure me that he is still voting for the Reform Party just to think, the Reform Party lowered his income tax by 1%! He doesn't realize that for him it means ten euros a month, but at the same time his electricity bill has grown, and at the same time he pays a lot more VAT in the shop than he paid in his good times, perhaps in his childhood. Of course, he hasn't had a car in a long time, so he doesn't have a problem buying gas. Jne, et cetera. My dissatisfaction with the Reform Party is not, in fact, dissatisfaction with the Reform Party or with the entire government coalition. My dissatisfaction still comes from the fact that we are sweeping here in Estonia. We will not be able to come up with a stable system where we will once understand who we really are and what taxes and in what form we want to cash in from our people. Because to fill the holes that come out of populist tax reductions from somewhere else, we sometimes have to make some pretty stupid tax rulings that seem ugly elsewhere. Once again: good people of Estonia, try to understand and watch things! In fact, the sum of you will be robbed! Your real income will decrease for the simple reason that, although you scream with enthusiasm, receiving a 1% tax concession, it will be taken back from you 5 to 500 times with price increases and excise duties imposed by the state, all the money that is left in your pocket. It would be reasonably reasonable to live in such a way that we know when we wake up tomorrow, what taxes apply to us, and that even in a year's time, we know that our tax system is more or less stable. This makes it painful for me to hear from reasonable people that taxes are not being played and that Estonia is a country with a very good tax system. No, it's not! That's what I'm gonna end up with. Thanks, Reform Party, for getting my dividends back by a percentage from 2015!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U256	Thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will now begin the examination of the 40 amendments to the draft. The first amendment is tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the position of the commission is to disregard it. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U257	I ask for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U258	Let's start preparing the vote. Good fellows! I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 members of the Riigikogu against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The second amendment is tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U259	Let's do it. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 53 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. We are going to the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U260	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U261	Let's do it. Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 53 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. We will go to the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U262	I would also like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U263	Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote Amendment 4 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 53 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. We will go to the fifth amendment tabled by the lead committee. We have examined 40 amendments to the draft. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft 40 be completed. At the same time, the Estonian Central Party Group has also proposed to the Management Board of the Riigikogu, which reads as follows: "The Estonian Central Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Bill amending the Income Tax Act 40 SE. " Let us start preparing the vote on this proposal. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the Bill amending the Income Tax Act. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 40 is closed and the second item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U264	We will go to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with it, the amendment of other laws. I would like Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U265	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law, the amendment of the Aliens Act and the related amendment of other laws, was here at first reading on 1 June. Let me remind you very briefly that the aim is to transpose the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union laying down minimum standards on penalties and measures against employers who employ illegally staying third-country nationals. In some cases, such activities are also criminalised, for example, if they happen several times during the year, if three or more foreigners, minors, etc. have been employed. In addition, employers are obliged to keep documents proving that the employer has legally employed an alien to their knowledge. The employer should therefore have copies of the person's residence card and travel documents. The Constitutional Commission discussed the submission of the draft to second reading on Monday 6 June. No amendments had been received, but the Commission noted that the date of entry into force of the original text was s. 19 June 2010 may not be the most appropriate. In this context, the Commission tabled one amendment which would give effect to the law on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. The debate in the committee was shorter than before the first reading and there is nothing very important about it for members of the Riigikogu. Several proposals were made, which were approved by consensus. First, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 14 June for the second reading of 43. It was also decided to propose to the assembly to stop the second reading of the draft and, if the second reading is closed, to propose to the Riigikogu's Bureau that the draft be placed on the agenda for the third reading on 15 June. Here I am going one step further: there was also a statement that the draft law should be adopted as a law. But what has happened? What has happened in the Riigikogu sometimes happens: the agendas have lingered and, in fact, we are on the agenda of 14 June today, 15 June, and we are discussing the proposal to take the draft to third reading, which is no longer possible today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U266	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 43 amendments to the draft. A proposal to amend the draft has been received from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed, the third item being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U267	We will go to the fourth item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Vocational Training Institution, Private School Act and University of Applied Sciences Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I ask Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U268	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the Vocational Education Institution Act, the Private School Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act, as amended, took place in our large hall on 31 May this year. No amendments were received from political groups, colleagues or committees by the deadline for amendments, 7 June. The Committee on Culture discussed what to do with the draft at its meeting on 9 June and decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 14 June. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is completed, to place the draft at third reading on the agenda for the plenary session on 16 June. There is a proposal to adopt the draft as a law. As no amendments were received for the second reading, the Committee on Culture did not submit a new text to the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U269	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Nor will I open the examination of the amendments to draft 6 because they were simply not tabled. At the same time, the Riigikogu Board has received a proposal to interrupt the second reading of Bill 6, signed by the Social Democratic Party Group. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote the motion tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The proposal is as follows: we propose to interrupt the second reading of draft 6. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 43 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed, the fourth item being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U270	We will go to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Board of the Guarantee Fund submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Finance Committee Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U271	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of a member of the Board of the Guarantee Fund was on the committee's agenda before the first reading on 7 June this year. The Guarantee Fund Act provides for the purpose of ensuring the protection of the funds placed by the clients of the credit institution, the clients of the investment institution and the unit-holders of the mandatory pension fund, thereby increasing the reliability and stability of the financial sector. The highest governing body of the Fund will be the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund in the future, I call it the Supervisory Board, two of the nine members of which will be appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Monetary Commission. The procedure for the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Riigikogu and the duration of the mandate changed with the version of the Guarantee Fund Act which entered into force on 1 June this year. So far there was a four-year mandate cycle, which was not linked to the change of Riigikogu membership or to the time of the Riigikogu mandate. It is now stipulated that each Riigikogu is appointed by the members of the Supervisory Board for their term of office. The mandate of the current Council began on 19 November 2010. The previous Riigikogu appointed Tatjana Muravjova and Eiki Nestor as members of the Supervisory Board. According to the transitional provision, the current Riigikogu has the possibility to decide, for each member appointed in the previous formation, whether to retain him until the next Riigikogu has appointed new members or to appoint a new member of the Supervisory Board in his place at the appropriate time. On the basis of the proposals received from the political groups, the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposes the appointment of Peeter Laurson as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund instead of Tatiana Muravjova. Eiki Nestor will continue as a member of the Council, if I am not mistaken, since 2002. The Commission took consensual decisions to propose that the draft be put on the agenda on 14 June and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U272	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the Steering Committee is that 65 final votes on the draft decision could be held today. So let's start preparing the final vote. I shall put the draft decision 65 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 65 of the decision of the Riigikogu " Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund" submitted by the Monetary Committee has been adopted as a decision. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U273	We go to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu entitled "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Stabilisation Reserve and the appointment of new members." I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U274	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Now on our tables is the draft decision of the Riigikogu on "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Stabilisation Reserve and the appointment of new members." This was on the Commission's agenda on 7 June this year. Let me brief you on the stability reserve. This is a set of assets drawn up under the State Budget Act from state resources and other receipts, the improvement of which and the use of which is a fiscal measure to reduce overall economic risks. In addition, the reserve may be used to increase military preparedness and mobilisation, as well as to prevent and mitigate socio-economic crises. The terms of reference and tasks of the Stabilisation Reserve Board shall be to give an opinion to the Government on the extension of the reserve, on the proposed introduction of the reserve by the Government and on the restrictions on the allocation of reserves and on the consent of the Minister of Finance to the management of the reserve through an external portfolio manager. Pursuant to § 373 of the State Budget Act, the Riigikogu appoints four members to the Stabilisation Reserve Board by decision initiated by the Monetary Commission for a period of five years. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is the Minister of Finance and the President of Eesti Pank. The members appointed by the Riigikogu must have impeccable reputation and higher education, must have the knowledge and experience necessary for the performance of the Council's duties and must not be part of the government. According to the law, the members of the Supervisory Board are not remunerated for their participation in the activities of the Supervisory Board. On 5 July 2007, the Riigikogu appointed Raivo Järvi, Inara Luigas, Eiki Nestor and Marek Strandberg to the Stabilisation Reserve Board. The candidates for the members of the Supervisory Board appointed by the decision currently under discussion are Annely Akermann, Inara Luis, Taavi Rõivas and Rannar Vassilyev, all of whom have been presented on the basis of proposals from the Riigikogu groups. The Finance Committee made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on Riigikogu's agenda on 14 June this date was postponed to today, put the draft to the final vote and the Riigikogu to adopt it as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U275	Thank you! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you tell me how much money we currently put at the disposal of this council?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U277	This was not discussed in the committee, but I can say that the size of the country's stabilisation reserve is billions of Estonian kroons. I am now indebted to the amount of the answer, but I will certainly be able to clarify it afterwards and, if necessary, to submit it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U278	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is that the final vote on the draft decision should be taken at first reading, so that we start preparing the final vote. I will put Bill 66 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one is against or impartial. The draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board and appointment of new members" submitted by the Monetary Committee 66 has been adopted as a decision. The sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U279	We will go to the seventh item, which is the first reading of Bill No 10 of the Act amending the Law on State Fees, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Riigikogu, to present the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The initiation of the Act amending the Law on State Fees is due to the need to reduce excessive and unconstitutional state fees. As of 1 January 2009, the rates of state fees became multiple in civil proceedings. In our view, too high rates of state fees have become an obstacle to effective legal protection as provided for in § 15 (1) of the Constitution. The Centre Party Group is of the opinion that high state fees cannot be effective if they restrict people's ability to go to court to defend their rights and freedoms. According to the draft law, state fees will be reduced by one-third or even half of the amount of the application for urgent, bankruptcy or other bankruptcy proceedings, the application for appeal, the application for the determination of jurisdiction lodged before the action and, in Annex 1 to the State Tax Act, the full rates of state fees for the filing of applications in civil proceedings. Several decisions of the Supreme Court have declared a disproportionately high rate of state fees incompatible with the Constitution. In response to our repeated inquiries, the Chancellor of Justice has also analysed the amount of state fees in the course of a specific standard check and took the view, in the opinion submitted to the Supreme Court, that state fees are excessive and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The Chancellor of Justice is of the opinion that the right to apply to the courts is a fundamental right of the state of law and that the only legitimate objective of establishing state fees can be 'procedural economy'. All other considerations, such as covering the costs of legal proceedings, obtaining revenue in the state budget and the like, seem rational or reasonable, do not justify limiting the so-called 'absolute fundamental right'. Therefore, the "cost" principle applied by the current coalition should be considered critically when setting state fees. The content of our bill is supported very clearly by an analysis carried out by the Legal Information Department of the Supreme Court and entitled "High Tax as an Obstacle of Access to Justice." This is an analysis of case law which has been completed on 9 May 2011. I will read to you in point 3 of this summary: "The analysis shows that the state fees currently in force in civil proceedings are too high and constitute an obstacle to access to justice for individuals. a. The rates of state fees in the action procedure are significantly higher in Estonia than in other European Union Member States, both in comparison with small, medium and large claims. b. The high rate of state fees payable on very large claims is a characteristic factor. c. The problem is the cumulative nature of the State fees paid at both the first and the second levels, making the cost of the state fee even more burdensome for the parties to proceedings and preventing the incorrect settlement from being challenged. "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development," "production" or "use" of equipment specified in 6A005.a., 6A005.b., 6A005.b., 6A005.b., 6A005.b., 6A005.b. or 6A005.c. The constitutional review procedure has recently raised many disputes, resulting in some of the provisions of the RLS and TsMS have already been found to be in conflict with the Constitution." So the analysis of case law clearly confirms the importance of our draft. If you have also read the presentation by the President of the Supreme Court, which will be delivered tomorrow in this large hall, you know that he also refers to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U281	Thank you! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U282	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you have any information on the rates of state fees in other European countries? Where do we line up compared to the other countries of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U283	Thank you for your question. This last analysis, which I talked about very thoroughly, refers to the high rates of our state fees compared to the other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U284	Good waitress! I thank you for your report and your answer. No further questions. I now ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Andrus Saare, member of the Monetary Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U285	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the State Fees Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group at its meeting on 7 June. As the initiator's representative, Mr Laane presented the draft. In addition, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice took part in the meeting. The aim of the draft is to improve law enforcement and enforcement by reducing state fees. Mr Laane has just given a very comprehensive overview of the content of the draft, so I will not dwell on its content. The Commission was aware that the Government of the Republic did not support the draft in this form. I will now give an overview of the issues and issues that were discussed in the Commission. The Ministry of Justice is working on an analysis of state fees, which we were informed about by Deputy Chancellor Marko Aavik of the Ministry of Justice. A thorough review and consultation of the parties concerned is currently underway. The analysis and possible amendments will be finalised in the second half of the year. There was also talk about the cost-orientation of state fees and the possibility of reducing them. In particular, the current law provides that the rate of the specific State fee is to be determined on the basis of the costs involved in carrying out the operation. According to a representative of the Ministry, more money is actually spent on civil proceedings than the fees actually collect. They also asked why fees were increased without analysis. The representative of the Ministry replied that a few years ago, this was in December 2008, when it was dealt with, the economic situation was simply one where decisions had to be taken quickly. This was a financial policy objective at the time. They asked if the Ministry of Finance had the budgetary implications of this draft. The Ministry of Finance did not have such records, nor did the author of the draft cost-benefit account. The issue was further raised that, since 2009 when state fees were increased, statistics show that court access has increased, but more is being requested to reduce and exempt fees, which has led to an increase in administrative burden. In general, the Commission considers the issue to be very topical and believes that this must definitely be further addressed. However, we must wait for a thorough analysis of the government and proposals to change the state fees. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu on 14 June and to close the first reading. The decision was consensual. The deadline for submitting amendments could be set at 10 working days, which is 30 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U286	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, good waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. No negotiations will be opened. The position of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 10 on 30 June at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the seventh item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U287	We have come to the eighth item, which is the third reading of Bill No 9 of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? We do not recommend opening negotiations, so we can go to preparing the final vote. Good colleagues, can we take a vote? Our Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that a majority of the composition is required for the adoption of this draft as a law. Before the final vote, we will carry out a presence check. Check-in! 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26. I shall put Bill 9 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Bill No 9 of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws was not passed as a law. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U288	We will proceed to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Lembit Kaljuvee, representative of the Central Party Group of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U289	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, At times, joy is also a joy. I would be delighted if the vote on the next draft would achieve the same result. But so much from this draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government, that the Estonian Central Party Group does not support the adoption of this law. I spoke last time at second reading on the example of Kunda Nordic Cement how anti-company this bill is. And I'd like to...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U290	Good waitress, I'm so sorry to you! Dear colleagues, I have a big request for you: please keep it down in the hall! There's a lot of noise in the hall. Please respect the waitress and other colleagues, I beg you! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U291	Who's the subject of this bill? Whom is the current coalition hostile to? We can see that the draft concerns practically the work of companies in six sectors of the economy. In the case of special fuel, we are talking about rail companies, shipping, stationary engines, combined heat and power generation, agriculture, mining, forestry and construction. I would like all these companies not only today, but also in four years' time, to remember who is actually friendly to the company and how their concerns and actions are treated. The companies involved are currently in a situation where the economy is starting to recover. We know that in Estonian entrepreneurship, the increase that has been achieved has been achieved in the area of export. I have spoken with the leaders of all these companies, as has the Committee on Monetary Affairs. They called on the representatives of the associations concerned to justify and explain why it is not right to increase this tax now. But no, our Committee on Monetary Affairs and the coalition are going on with the roller coaster. What the European Union is doing in these same sectors...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U292	Good waitress, I apologize to you again! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. I ask you to keep it down, because absolutely nothing is heard, and some people still want to know what the waitress is talking about and what the substance of the bill is. I beg you to keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U293	The Council of Europe directive on the restructuring of the taxation of energy products allows, in all these sectors, I would stress: to use specially labelled fuel in all these sectors. All the countries around us are taking advantage of this special advantage, but in this tiny Estonia we think we are so hard-working and our entrepreneurs are so hard-working that they can get a billion kroons of tax on them. A billion kroons of this is very big money for Estonia! It's just being taken away from businesses! I watched as a member of our Committee on Monetary Affairs, a former minister, had trouble answering when he explained a 1% reduction in income tax. With this 1% reduction in income tax, nothing is being taken away from anyone! Just keep it, and after four years people won't even know it, no one knows the companies. Here, however, the billion will actually be taken away with six months' notice. In our Centre Party, we do not understand this behaviour, and we do not particularly understand it when political parties call themselves business-friendly. Finally, I would like to say once again that the Centre Party Group does not support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U294	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on draft 39. I will put draft 39 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 33 members of the Riigikogu opposed, with no abstentions. Draft 39 Act amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U295	We will go to the tenth item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? We do not recommend opening negotiations, so we can go to preparing the final vote. I will put draft 42 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 70 members of the Riigikogu in favour, there are no respondents and there are two abstentions. Draft Act 42 amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The 10th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U296	We go to the 11th item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Defence Act and other laws of the Republic of Estonia in connection with the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 28. Good colleagues, can we go to the final vote? Since, according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, this draft requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership, we will carry out a verification of the presence before the final vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. I will put Bill 28 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft law 28 on the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, has been adopted as a law. Agenda item 11 is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U297	We go to item No 12, which is the second reading of Riigikogu's decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the air security mission in Iceland" by the Government of the Republic. Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Committee, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U298	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft Decision was completed on 7 June 2011. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading at its meeting on 13 June. The National Defence Committee, as the lead committee, submitted one proposal within the deadline for submitting amendments. This was due to the fact that in earlier texts of Riigikogu decisions, which provide for the use of the Estonian Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the state, it is stipulated that Estonian Defence Forces will be used. As a linguistic amendment, the title of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the International Law on Military Cooperation has been changed in the preamble to the draft act and brought into line with the norm of the drafts to be dealt with in the Riigikogu. Point 31 of that rule states that a direct reference to another law or provision of that law must contain the title of the law referred to, which is written with a small initial letter and without quotation marks. At the same time, the second word "until" is redundant in paragraph 1 of the draft as it is covered by the words "until 31 December 2013." Aivar Engel, Head of the Secretary-General of the National Defence Commission, drew attention to the above facts and was finalised for the second reading in the form of an amendment and linguistic amendment of the National Defence Committee, respectively. The initiator of the draft act supports the amendment and linguistic amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee. At its meeting on 13 June, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to approve the text of the draft at second reading, the list of amendments and the explanatory memorandum. Earlier, at its meeting on 2 June, the National Defence Committee had decided again by consensus that when the first reading of the draft was completed, the Riigikogu Board would be invited to include the draft decision 59 on the agenda of the 15 June session of the Riigikogu. As a reminder, gentlemen, so much that, according to the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from NATO membership and its participation in the NATO-led Iceland air security mission is directly due to the security interests of the Estonian state. The NATO air security mission will also be conducted in the Estonian airspace, and the Estonian defence force targetants sent to Iceland will gain the necessary skills and experience from this mission, which will be useful for the development of the Estonian Air Force and the entire Defence Forces. On 13 June, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus at its meeting to propose that the Riigikogu stop the second reading of this draft decision, put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. The draft requires a majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U299	Thank you! Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Indrek Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U300	Thank you, Mr President. I have such a question for a good waitress. You turned to the hall with the word "gentlemen." Do you not consider the beautiful ladies present among us to be anything, or is this an unexpected change in the feminist politics you otherwise represent?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U301	Thank you very much for a very good question. I just noticed the ladies were quiet.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U302	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. Let us now go to the examination of the amendments. A proposal from the commission has been received to amend bill 59. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading and also to hold the final vote on the draft 59. We respect the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put the draft decision to the final vote 59. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 59 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the air security mission in Iceland" has been adopted as a decision. 12. item closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U303	We are going to the 13th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related laws and investment funds law. Inara Luigas, member of the Monetary Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U304	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft act took place on 1 June 2011. At the plenary session, it was decided to close the first reading of the draft and to send it to the second reading. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 6 June. No amendments were received within this deadline. The commission further discussed the draft at its meeting on 9 June and 13 June. At its meeting on 13 June, the Commission adopted seven amendments to the draft law on investment funds by consensus. Amendment 4 was discussed in greater detail. It was asked in which cases the prescribed regulation could be implemented, and Thomas Honourable, Head of the Financial Markets Department of the Ministry of Finance, who attended the meeting of the Commission, explained that the amendment stems from Directive 2009/65/EC and allows the management company to further limit its liability for key investor information and mitigate the risk of bringing actions against it. In particular, the amendment makes it possible to keep the texts drawn up by the management company for the presentation of the fund short. More detailed information shall be provided in comprehensive prospectuses and key information shall only give rise to the liability of the management company towards the investor if the key information and the prospectus conflict with each other. At its meeting on 9 June, the Commission took the following decisions: firstly, to make linguistic and technical specifications in the draft; secondly, to send the draft to second reading on 15 June. It was decided to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session for a third reading on 16 June. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U305	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 45 amendments to the draft. Seven amendments have been received, all submitted by the commission. The common position is to take them fully into account. Proposals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the 13th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U306	We are going to the 14th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Neeme Suur, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U307	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed 48 amendments at its Monday meeting on 13 June 2011. Seili Suder, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was also invited to the debate. Two proposals were submitted to amend the draft law. One amendment was tabled by my colleague, Eiki Nestor, concerning the repeal of § 4 (2) of the Act. In essence, this proposal meant that Estonia would not implement the derogation allowed by the Directive, which would result in the involvement of workers in cross-Community companies also being extended to commercial vessels. The Preparatory Representative of the draft law disagreed with this amendment, explaining that they remained directly within the scope of the Directive and did not broaden the issues. Another objection was that this amendment had not been negotiated with the social partners. However, the initiators do not exclude such a change in the future. One of the arguments put forward by the advocates of the amendment was that such a change has been supported by the Confederation of Trade Unions and could reflect the attitude of the Republic of Estonia in strengthening its maritime affairs. There was also a vote. With 4 votes in favour and 5 against, the Commission did not support the proposal. The second amendment was tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs itself, which concerned the deletion of § 2. This provision directly concerned the entry into force of the Act. Paragraph 2 of the draft law stated that the Act would enter into force on 5 June 2011. Since this is not possible, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed that this paragraph be deleted and the law should enter into force in the normal manner. Ultimately, the Commission decided to stick to the procedural decisions that have been taken so far on draft 48, i.e. to propose a second reading today and a third reading tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U308	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Eiki Nestori, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U309	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will try to promote my amendment briefly. The reasons are very simple. This right not to apply to merchant ships is exercised by six European Union countries. Estonia is one of them. If you look at the list of these countries, you could also talk about flags of convenience using maritime terms. I see no reason that Estonia needs to go in this direction. The second reason is also simple. I do not think that this provision would create any major problem. In fact, this whole directive and the corresponding law of Estonia are saying that if there is a pan-European company and there are employees involved in managing the company under this directive, our people, who work in such companies, have the right to send their representatives there. They shall have the right to be informed of what is happening in that undertaking which extends beyond the borders of several countries. If we lose this exception, the Estonian sailors who work in these companies in the merchant fleet will also be entitled to it. What do we have against that?? I therefore believe that this derogation is not justified in Estonia. Vote for my change, nothing bad's gonna happen!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U310	Thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the amendments to the draft 48. Two amendments have been received. The first amendment is tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, and the commission has rejected it. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U311	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U312	Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this amendment. I shall put to the vote the first amendment tabled by Mr Nestor, Member of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 10 members of the Riigikogu, 51 members of the Riigikogu against and one abstention did not find support for the amendment. The second amendment is tabled by the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the 14th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U313	We are going to the 15th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea, the State Tax Act and the Port Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Kalev Lillo, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U314	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act, the State Fees Act and the Ports Act was at first reading in the Riigikogu plenary session on 1 June. By 7 June this year, when the deadline for submitting amendments was set, no proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. The representative of the initiator of the draft act sent two proposals for consideration by the commission. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed two proposed amendments at its meeting on 9 June, which was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It was decided to take full account of the proposals received from the initiator. These are technical changes. The commission also adopted a decision to send the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act, the State Tax Act and the Port Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 15 June, i.e. today. The proposal is to conclude the second reading and, if so, to carry out the third reading tomorrow, 16 June and adopt the draft as a law. This decision was taken by consensus by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U315	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We are now going to the examination of the draft 25 amendments. Two of them have been received, both of them from the commission and there is a position to take them fully into account. First amendment, second amendment. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the 15th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U316	We are going to the 16th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the railway law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Lembit Kaljuvee, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U317	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! On 9 June the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu discussed the transmission of the draft law amending the Rail Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to second reading. In order to amend the draft, its initiator, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, had submitted seven proposals, and Kristi Kuldma, the chief specialist of the Ministry's railway service, represented them at the meeting of the Commission. Six of the seven proposals were editorial, technical. Proposal No 5 was substantive and proposed to include certificates previously issued to the driver in another company when issuing the certificate. The Commission members supported the proposal by consensus. It was unanimously decided to send the draft law amending the railway law initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a 15 June. Secondly, it was also decided by consensus to propose to the Assembly to terminate the second reading and, thirdly, to carry out the third reading on 16 June with a proposal for a draft law. This too was decided by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U318	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. We will begin the examination of the draft 27 amendments. Seven of them have been received and the position of the commission is to take them all fully into account. Proposals Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the 16th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U319	We are going to the 17th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Karel Rüütli, Vice-Chairman of the Environment Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U320	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act 55 took place on Thursday 9 June 2011. The first reading was closed on 7 June and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 9 June. Enn Liive, chief specialist at the Water Department of the Ministry of the Environment, was invited to the discussion on this point. Enn Liive explained that there were two amendments to the draft. Both are technical in nature and specify two paragraphs. The amendments came in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The first amendment clarifies the work of the testing laboratories. It is not clear in the text of the law currently in force that the sampling and sampling methods used by laboratories should be accredited. This section has been added and further specified. The second sentence of the current text is deleted for clarity because the standard does not deal with methods of analysis but lays down general requirements on the quality of laboratory work. In the current version, this sentence would have led to misunderstanding. More specifically, the requirements for methods of analysis are set out in a regulation issued under the law. The second amendment specifies the sampling if the test laboratory is not itself the sample taker. Since the draft provides that a testing laboratory carrying out water tests must also have been accredited and trained for sampling, the obligation of accreditation of the sampler is withdrawn from the draft if the sample is taken by the testing laboratory. In addition, the requirements for measurement and sampling tools for accredited samplers have been improved. The means used must be calibrated or calibrated to be monitored. In addition, the provision has been supplemented by a requirement that in an area where samplers are not accredited, the sampling of the sampler must follow the standard for the sampling area concerned and ensure that the traceability of the results obtained has been demonstrated. As regards aquatic life and sediments of water bodies, samplers are not accredited in this area because they have to comply with the relevant standard and all circumstances have to be documented. The Commission also adopted decisions on further processing of the draft. First, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 55 second reading be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 15 June 2011. This decision was taken by consensus. Secondly, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act 55 be completed. This decision was also taken by consensus. Thirdly, to submit to the plenary the list of 55 amendments to the draft, the second reading text and the explanatory memorandum to the second reading text. This decision was also adopted by consensus. In the event that the second reading of the draft is closed, the Riigikogu is invited to take the draft 55rd reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Thursday, 16 June. This decision was also taken by consensus. And fifthly, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft be put to the final vote of 55 and adopted as a law. This decision was also made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U321	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, there will be no opening of negotiations. Let us now go to the examination of the amendments to the draft 55. Two amendments have been received; both have been tabled by the commission and there is a position to take them fully into account. The first and second amendments. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the 17th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U322	We are going to the 18th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. I am very pleased to see Kalle Palling, member of the Environment Committee in the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U323	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the 56th draft law amending the Law on the Protection of the Outer Air was completed on 7 May this year and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 9 June. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not submit any proposals to amend the draft. The Committee on the Environment finalised one amendment that was agreed with the Ministry of the Environment. Technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. At its meeting on 9 June, the Committee on the Environment decided to invite the Riigikogu plenary to conclude the second reading of the 56th draft and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U324	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? There is also no strong desire to negotiate, so negotiations will not be opened. Let us now go to the examination of the 56 amendments to the draft. They have been received exactly one, and this is the proposal of the commission. We have examined the amendment. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading and the 18th item are closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U325	We are going to the 19th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Tõnis Kõiv, member of the Environment Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U326	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed 57 second readings of the draft law at its meeting on Thursday 9 June. The first reading of the draft law amending the law on the protection of the air against air was concluded on 7 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 9 June 2011. Neither members of the Riigikogu, groups nor other committees submitted amendments. At the hearing of the Commission on 9 June, Ms Eve Tamme, adviser to the Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Jörgen Talkop, chief specialist, and Mr Lauri Tammiste, Head of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were also present. The officials present explained the proposals sent to the Commission by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications concerning the amendment of § 1195 of the Environmental Protection Act. The Commission's discussion reached the conviction that, if the relevant ministries have agreed among themselves that a change is necessary and will be submitted to the Commission, the Commission will be ready to discuss it and, if appropriate, to formulate an amendment to the draft. It was granted an additional deadline of 12 noon on 10 June, but no amendments or specific ideas were received at that time, and so only technical and linguistic changes have been made in draft 57 at second reading, which do not change the substance of the draft. On 9 June, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of the draft 57 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 15 June, to propose that the plenary assembly stop the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the third reading be placed on the agenda on Thursday 16 June and put the draft to the final vote of 57 and to adopt it as a law. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U327	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No proposals were received to amend bill 57. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. The second reading and the 19th item are closed. Dear colleagues, we have been asked that during the debate on today's 20th item, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligit will replace Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, who is already present in this government box. I hope no one wants to protest. Thank you. Let's move on to our agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U328	We are at the 20th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Audit Office Act and the Audit Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U329	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I believe we have reached a certain historical turning point. We can take into consideration the postponement of the implementation of a decision taken earlier, just as it is most useful for the sacred purpose of further maintaining public finances. What am I talking about? I'll tell you everything. The previous Riigikogu decided that auditors should be retested. We have now prepared this new procedure very hard, but it has become clear that it would make sense, however, to postpone the various professional examinations previously planned for a year. With such a humble request, Jürgen Ligi has come before you in my person. I'm sure you'll ask what happens now. What about our country? What about our finances? Believe me, there's nothing to be done. The year is more unnoticed from the point of view of the Estonian people's survival and their living in this area than from the point of view of the nail. So I have a request to support it. We have also wondered whether there is any need for an emergency call in this draft. We have not reached a consensus within the coalition, and I therefore have the request to conclude the first reading today and to deal with it at a reasonable pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U330	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to thank the waitress and I am sure to ask you to extend our greetings to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. But let's keep going. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U331	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft law at its meeting on 7 June this year. Kurmet Ojamaa, Head of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance, explained the need for this amendment. The Economic Commission decided to send draft law No 58 amending the Law of the National Audit Office and the Law on Auditing Activities, initiated by the Government of the Republic, to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 15 June, to propose to the Assembly to stop the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for amendments at 30 June at 12 noon, to send the draft to the plenary for the second reading. a on 14 September, with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to carry out the third reading of the draft on 15 September. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U332	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? I don't see anyone. Thank you for your presentation. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I also see no wish to negotiate, so negotiations will not be opened. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 58 amendments at 12 noon on 30 June. The first reading is closed and the 20th item is also dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U333	We are going to the 21st item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Now I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications of the Riigikogu for the speech chair Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U334	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The amendment to the Air Services Act deals with one issue, which is laying down the principles for establishing airport charges in Estonian law. These rules, which this draft provides for, stem from the 2009 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. This directive provides for a general framework for airport charges to be established in the European Union. The principles of the Directive must apply to every airport in the European Union which is open to commercial air traffic and which carries more than 5 million passengers per year, as well as to the largest number of passengers in each Member State. We know that there are no airports in Estonia that are more than 5 million passengers per year. The airport with the largest number of passengers in Estonia is Tallinn Airport, which means that this bill primarily concerns AS Tallinn Airport. Since an airport with the largest number of passengers in each Member State is in a privileged position as a significant point of entry for that Member State, it is necessary to define certain principles in relation between the managing body of the airport and the users of the airport. This will ensure the transparency of airport charges and avoid discrimination between airport users. The draft accepts a number of principles according to which the charges can be differentiated according to the quality of the service offered by the airport. The draft adds an independent supervisory authority to the process of designing airport charges as a third party, which has the power to verify the reasonableness and legality of airport charges and which settles disputes between the airport manager and airport users. This authority is the competition authority according to the bill. As I said, the need for a draft comes first and foremost from agreements at European Union level. I would remind you that when the previous Riigikogu discussed these views during the discussion of this directive, Estonia remained in a rather cautious position. Our initial position was that such a very thorough regulation of airport charges would not make sense for relatively small airports. However, the agreement at European level was such that it concerns the largest airport in each country, regardless of the overall volume of passengers. I very much hope that this implementation of the amendment to the Aviation Act will not lead to excessive bureaucracy and that AS Tallinn Airport will be able to do so in such a way that it will develop constructive economic relations with its customers and the airport will be able to react if necessary, to adjust charges, either to increase them or to reduce them depending on the market situation. Finally, so much so that the deadline for transposition of the directive is already close. So I have a request that if the Riigikogu supports this government's intention, the draft could be adopted as a law without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U335	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are questions, at least one. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U336	I understand that we need to review this matter without any delay, and therefore I would like to see maximum clarity on the draft law. Did I understand correctly that the transposition of this directive is directly harmful to Estonian aviation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U337	You didn't get me right. In order not to remain general, a small comment. The fact is that regulation makes airport operations less flexible. Whether less flexibility means harm or benefit is hard to say. We must certainly admit a certain positive moment that forces the airport to cooperate with its'main users', or airlines, to negotiate more with them. That could be good. However, I do not want to say that AS Tallinn Airport is not doing this now. On the other hand, we have the experience of the last year when we were negotiating with Ryanair, for example. With this regulation, such agreements, which are necessary for Estonian tourism, would most likely not be born for interesting new air connections. So there's a certain problem here. I repeat, we also discussed this in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Estonia, together with Luxembourg, was always holding reservations in the European debate, but the adoption of this directive does not require the support of all Member States, a qualified majority is sufficient. It can therefore be said that we have remained in a minority with Luxembourg. It has always been our view that such regulation is, above all, meaningful in the case of really large airports. This was also, to a large extent, the reason for such an initiative by the European Union. Initially, there were talks about airports where the number of passengers exceeds 10 million. As a result of the discussions, 5 million levels were reached, and then the European Commission, which we loved dearly, felt it necessary to point out that smaller Member States must also be under the influence of this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U338	Margus Hanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U339	Minister, thank you very much. My question, too, concerns the impact on low-cost airlines resulting from the implementation of the so-called low-cost airlines law. We know that in many countries their planes land precisely on other airports, also near the capitals. Part of the answer to my question was already received from your answer to the previous question, but please tell me whether this change will affect the arrival of aircraft from these companies in Tallinn and what would be the solution. Is Tartu Airport or Ämari, for example, an option?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U340	I gave this example of a low-cost airline as an example of the need to respond to the market situation. This law makes the airport's operating space more difficult - it is a whole bureaucratic procedure for setting airport tariffs in the future. There is no separate treatment at Tallinn Airport for cheap and expensive or "normal" airlines. Our tariff policy provides for equal treatment for all airlines using Tallinn Airport. The difference is that tariffs have been built up to enable both the current law and this directive to achieve certain mass or quantity criteria. In other words, the more passengers, the more the tariff is gradually falling, the more the tariff is gradually falling. And it was like a key to Ryanair. At the same time, we can say that this actually applies to all airlines operating to Tallinn. The more passengers they serve, the more tariffs go down. So we treat all airlines equally, as this directive basically requires.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U341	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U342	Maybe a little bit of a clarification. In fact, the new routes will be treated equally, as the Minister said. But here's my question. I guess it's proud of the airport to be with other big airports. But has any calculation been made of what the additional bureaucracy in money can mean? How much could the costs of AS Tallinn Airport increase as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U343	This entails certain costs for Tallinn Airport, but given the budget volume of AS Tallinn Airport, they are not significant. There are certain costs, as this law requires some readjustment of the cost accounting of Tallinn Airport.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U344	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U345	I'll take it from there. Yes, the Minister noted here the most important fact that there really are such things as landing and passenger charges, and the more passengers there are, the cheaper the tariffs will be, and our problem is that we are too small. But right now we were talking about the bureaucratic procedures involved. Let's say that these prices are actually starting to fluctuate, we have gone through these procedures, do you think there will be any problems of market competition in the sense that landing and other charges will also increase? Or are they not increasing and the whole negative moment is connected with the bureaucracy involved? Are there any economic repercussions to be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U346	No, it's not. What is this bureaucracy? This is about coordination procedures. The rule of the directive, which is also in our law, provides that if Tallinn Airport, for example, wants to change any tariff or tariff component, it must inform users four months in advance. Four months! Right now, he can do it right now. The aim is to reach an agreement with users within two months with all users! We are mainly talking about airlines. You can imagine this even in the case of Tallinn Airport, it is more than 10 airlines! If no agreement is reached, the process will begin at the Competition Authority, which will take a decision for which it will have four months. In certain cases, in so-called exceptional cases, it is possible for the airport to do things faster. But imagine: the general procedure that the European Union is proposing for us will last ten months! So it is actually a question of flexibility and inflexibility. However, if the airport still has a clear approach, it can, in principle, impose charges in the same way on the basis of the market situation and, on the other hand, on the basis of cost justification. The airport already achieves what it wants when it makes a reasonable business decision. But it just might take a while. That is what I meant by the fact that, when negotiations are taking place on the opening of new routes to give opportunities to new entrants, other users will be able to start holding it relatively successfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U347	Minister, thank you for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. I would like to ask Arto Asa, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U348	Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Aviation Act at its meeting on 9 June. The draft was presented by Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Eva Vanamb, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and additional explanations and comments were also provided by Rein Loik, Chairman of the Management Board of Tallinn Airport, and Ester Kodar, lawyer at Tallina Airport. The Minister has already briefly presented the draft. It can be confirmed that the state of Estonia, Tallinn Airport and other parties have no particular passion for transposing this directive, but unfortunately such decisions have been made. However, there was a shared consensus that we would transpose this directive as little as possible and as much as necessary. In addition to the substantively dissected questions, which were also addressed by the Minister in his replies, the subject was raised that the aviation law as a whole would like to be rewritten. It has been changed several times over time, so now it has a very strange numbering At the same time, we had a common understanding that this could not be done in the course of the current draft legislation, unfortunately, because the deadline for transposition of the directive is about. Now for the decisions. The Economic Commission decided to send the draft Act amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for the first reading. a 15 June. It was decided to propose to the Assembly that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set. 1 July at 12 noon. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-15_U349	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, good waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting 41 amendments on 1 July at 12 noon. The first reading of the draft act and the 21st item on the agenda are closed. It's Wednesday, it's 8:03. We have no further items on the agenda, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 20:04 a.m.
