ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, I call on Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates six draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law restricting the acquisition of immovable property. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Water Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, when dealing with the bill. Thirdly, the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection, which transposes the European Ambient Air Quality Directive. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, when dealing with the bill. Fourthly, the second draft law amending the law on ambient air protection transposing the directive on the improvement of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme in the Community. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, when dealing with the bill. Fifthly, the draft law amending the National Audit Office Act and the Audit Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Sixthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and the acts amending the Convention in 2010. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Seventhly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the air security mission in Iceland." In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Mart Laar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and 12 other members of the Social Democratic Party Group, I will refer the inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The inquiry addresses a number of important deficiencies in the organisation of family medical care, which have also been highlighted in the audit by the National Audit Office in April of this year. The concern is that the availability of family medical care has deteriorated year after year, that family doctors and nurses are not enough and that their number is decreasing further. The shortage of family doctors is particularly acute in many rural areas. Also, the lists of many, mostly family doctors operating in the city, current primary health professionals are overburdened with work, insufficient growth and a weak material base. While many acute problems are reflected in the development document of the primary health development plan for 2009‐2015, a number of interim targets for 2011 have not been met, several targets for 2015 have become unrealistic. Thus, the efforts of the Ministry of Social Affairs have not been sufficient. If the country does not take cardinal measures, our family medical system will not be sustainable. In view of the above, we have six questions for the Minister for Social Affairs. Does the Ministry of Social Affairs intend to do something cardinal to train family doctors and nurses to succeed? How can doctors and sisters be motivated to come and stay in primary care? We also want to know whether the Minister shares the view of the Social Democrats that primary care should be available to all people. We also want to know if the Ministry of Social Affairs has foreseen to pay the family doctor a bounty for uninsured persons.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I will refer the inquiry to Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. The inquiry concerns the care service. We know that according to various analyses, four to five times less care services are offered in Estonia than is actually needed in international comparison. To reach the Nordic level, we should have up to ten times more of this service. Our weak levels of follow-up and care treatment have also been highlighted by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Care treatment has made it even more inaccessible by 15% of its own shares since 2010, i.e. six euros per day, which is around 182 euros per month. More and more care quality issues have arisen recently, which have already been brought to the attention of the National Audit Office, as well as the Chancellor of Justice. And even though the Minister for Social Affairs has consistently stressed that the funding for care care is improving and investment is increasing, this is not reflected in the actual situation. One reason, of course, is the exodus of maintenance staff. We are going to ask the Minister a number of questions. What is the Ministry of Social Affairs planning to do to ensure the quality of the work of care institutions, better provision of health care services? Of course, we are also asking about the quality assessment of health services and, again and again, about the salaries of medical workers: when are they going to rise so that the outflow of workers is not what it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U7	Thank you. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U8	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry from 13 members of the Estonian Central Party to the Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns the construction of a liquid gas terminal in Estonia or other Baltic countries. There have been years of talk about this, various views have been expressed, and much advice has been given. We would like to know what the position of the Estonian Minister of Economic Affairs and the Estonian Government is. We have six questions about this, and let me hand them over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted seven drafts and three inquiries. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If enquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the draft decision of the Estonian Economic Commission on the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund and has appointed it as the leading committee of the Economic Commission. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the following to the European Union Affairs Committee by the Government of the Republic. a European Union documents submitted on 26 May. Firstly, Estonia's views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on credit agreements relating to residential immovable property. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and directive of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. th June 10th at 12 noon. Secondly, Estonia's views on the European Commission's communication 'A competitive low-carbon economy by 2050'. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on the Environment and Economic Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and communication of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho June 3th at 12 noon. Thirdly, Estonia's views on the European Commission's "Energy Efficiency Plan 2011." The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions and communication of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. tho June 3th at 12 noon. Fourthly, Estonia's views on the European Commission's White Paper "Roadmap to a Single European Transport Area" towards a competitive and resource efficient transport system. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the White Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. th June 10th at 12 noon. Fifthly, Estonia's views on the future of VAT in the European Commission's Green Paper. Towards a simpler, more secure and more efficient VAT system. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 2 June at 6 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder. On 17 May, the members of the Riigikogu formed the Estonian-Kambodža parliamentary group, on 19 May the Estonian-Kirgiisi parliamentary group and the Estonian-Norwegian parliamentary group and a support group for human rights and political freedoms in Iran. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today, at the end of the plenary session, the opening meetings of the Cossack Support Group (the convener Viktor Vassilyev) and the Estonian Foreign Language Teaching Support Group (the convener Mikhail Stalnukhin) will take place in the Chamber. We're gonna do a presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go to the adoption of the agenda. This week's agenda will be on your desks and I will vote on the adoption of the agenda. Please vote! 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U10	Let us then begin the debate on today's agenda items. There are three questions on the agenda. The first question is the members of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas, Viktor Vassilyev, Lauri Laas, Valeri Korbi, Kalev Kallo, Inara Luigas, Kadri Samson and Mikhail Stalnukhin on 11 April in the s. a request for information on the compensation for the reduction of municipal revenue (No 1). I would like to ask my colleague, Inara Luigas, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, for the first time in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we discussed a bill that exempts homeowners from land tax. If this bill is confirmed here in the Riigikogu, the local governments will receive 17 million euros less income. If we talk about this bill at all, we should mention that it is a pattern example of which bill should not be brought to the Riigikogu. This bill could be distributed to all local governments to show how flawed and weak draft laws are brought to the Riigikogu. But that's it. When it comes to the income base of local governments, this law again reduces the share of income tax and does not yet find a compensation mechanism, it goes on with this emotional bill. We have asked Auditor General Mihkel Oviir that there is a decision of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010, which obliges the Government of the Republic to draw up a bill, legislation that specifically limits the responsibilities of local governments and the responsibilities of the state. The Auditor General also said here on the floor that the Government of the Republic must make these acts and that all the state obligations that the local government must fulfil must be guaranteed by a revenue base. However, as the court settlement reveals, and so to this day, it has not yet been decided or regulated how the obligations of local authorities are to be guaranteed. Our inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip today contains eight questions. Four members of the Central Party Group have signed the inquiry. We are waiting for answers to these questions and ask the Prime Minister to read our questions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. I would now like to ask Prime Minister Andrus Ansip to respond to the eloquence.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will respond to your inquiry on 11 April 2011. First of all, the execution of Supreme Court judgment No 3-4-1-8-09 of 16 March 2010. On 15 July 2010, the Cabinet discussed a summary of the assessment of the state tasks entrusted to the municipalities by the Regional Minister. The 2011 state budget planning took into account the analyses submitted and the Riigikogu distinguished the financing of the state responsibilities and self-government tasks imposed on local governments in the 2011 State Budget Act. This will continue to be the case. Answers to questions. The first question: 'The coalition agreement states that, as of 1 January 2013, the land tax under home will disappear from the plots in a densely populated area within 1500 square metres and within two hectares in a distributed area. Does the promise result in calculations of the amount of tax loss for cities and municipalities? How is the loss of income intended to compensate local authorities? 'The calculations are there. The impact of the changes is in the order of EUR 17 million and will be covered by state budget resources. The Auditor General, Mihkel Oviir, also said on 16 May when he answered the question of the loss of the land tax under his home country: 'I think this process seems reasonable at the moment. On the one hand, the State law regulates this process and, at the same time, provides for the means to compensate for the lost revenue base of the municipalities. ' The second question: 'Professor Georg Sootla of Tallinn University has claimed that the share of local taxes in the budget of Estonia is one of the last, essentially non-existent, in Europe. This, according to him, was understandable in 1993, but not in 2010. If the government reduces the income of the municipality, it must find the means to compensate for it. To what extent could a central government compensate municipalities for the loss of income, for example, from taxes received by them or from the expense of their government expenditures? ' I already answered that question in answer to the previous question, but still. Since 2004, neither the tax-free minimum nor other deductions apply to the part of the municipal income tax. As a result of the amendment, the State has assumed the effects of significant changes to the income tax system. In 2010, the municipalities received more than 150 million euros compared to the situation that the 2004 system would have been in place. The share of state budget support accounted for 35% of local government revenue in 2010, compared to 37% in 2003. Thus, in the last seven years, the share of revenue from the sale of local governments' tax revenues, goods, services and assets and other revenue in the budget has increased. The third question: 'How does the reduction of the land tax fixed in the Reform Party and the IRL Coalition Agreement change the proportion of local taxes in local budgets? ' The amendment is 0 because the land tax is a state tax pursuant to subsection 3 (2) (3) of the Tax Administration Act. Question 4: How will the promise in the coalition agreement be fulfilled, which says that 'as a general trend, the role of local governments in shaping their own tax revenue must be significantly increased instead of the small local tax revenues today, the high share of state subsidies and so-called local taxes'? According to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2011 to 2015, an analysis of the development of the income base of local governments will be completed in the second quarter of 2012. Question 5: 'The state of Estonia is too central, according to state scientists, although it is a well-known fact that local government policy deals with people more directly than the central government. Why is it necessary and who will benefit from a reduction in the decision-making and self-righteousness of local communities? ' Question 6: 'The prerequisite for local autonomy is the independent sources of income of local government. How does the local government of Estonia differ from its northern neighbours in terms of independent sources of income? " The answer to the fifth and sixth questions. The autonomy of the municipality is not limited to the imposition of taxes. Municipalities are responsible for the independent decision-making and organisation of local life issues and the provision of public services. In Estonia, public services have so far not been standardised in a comprehensive and detailed manner, which in turn allows municipalities to decide with sufficient flexibility on the scope and methods of organising tasks. In the review 'The effects of reduced income on the activities of rural municipalities and cities during the 2009-2010 period', the National Audit Office states on page 2 that, although 90% of the local governments have lost revenue during the 2009-2010 period, the local governments feel that the possibilities for residents and businesses to consume services are much the same as in the pre-crisis period. Flexible financing system helps to maintain the competitiveness of the Estonian state. Question 7: 'Why does the central government need the Union of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments? ' Question 8: "What are you currently assessing the substantive cooperation of the central government with the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments? " The answer to the seventh and eighth questions. National self-government associations are representative organisations of local governments, which have been set up to represent their interests. We have always been open to constructive cooperation with local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have questions too. Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! You said that the amount to be reimbursed to the local authorities was EEK 17 million. I have heard that the amount that municipalities receive from the land tax can be much higher. However, do you intend to reimburse 100% of all municipalities or, for example, make some kind of choice or make 50% or 70% of the amounts received? Is there a mechanism for how this 17 million is distributed, or do you still increase this amount if you see that these receipts have really been higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U16	Thank you. First of all, you've used the wrong sources and you've heard the wrong information. So that's 17 million euros and he's not the biggest one. The state knows how much land tax has been collected from its residential property, and the state also knows how much land tax has been paid on large properties. So the order of magnitude is the right EUR 17 million. The government coalition has decided to compensate local authorities for EUR 17 million, but a specific compensation mechanism has not yet been developed. However, the government coalition has a clear will to compensate local governments for the loss of revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U17	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U18	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! In its opinion, the Ministry of Finance has stated that the Land Tax Exemption Act increases the price of land and reduces turnover, and thus the access of young families to housing, in addition to adding a fortress to homeowners. It departs greatly from the purpose of the law. Of course, one might ask which position is closer to the government's position, but I am interested in a much broader question. In a parliament of some friendly kingdoms, draft laws are dealt with so that an in-depth, comprehensive, also indirect, cost-benefit analysis is carried out. All we hear are sometimes conflicting fragments. Will our government also carry out a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis, including on indirect agents, before submitting drafts, or are they simply so complicated that Members should not be asked to submit them, they will not understand anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U19	Thank you. First of all, what prompted political parties in the government coalition to develop this bill at all? This is a very clear abuse of power in the city of Tallinn. If many homeowners have a land tax of such a nature that it resembles, or rather means, partial confiscation of the land, gradual confiscation, then the government and Parliament cannot just stand by and watch people be exfoliated. The government has to intervene because it is not democracy when the property of the residents of Pirita, Kadriorg and Nõmme is confiscated in Tallinn by the will of the majority, which they have once acquired with their work and effort. Call it an indirect or direct effect now, but that is the reason why the government coalition has to deal with the amendment of one law once again. I also dare to disagree on the position of the Ministry of Finance that it will significantly increase the price of the land, and as the price of the land rises, this country will remain inaccessible to young families. I think a young family has the confidence that the property it has acquired with a large loan will not be confiscated later, much more important than this initial purchase price, which, indeed, if the land tax is significantly reduced or completely lost, could lead to human consumption. So because the land disappears from 1,500 square feet [1,500 sq m] of land, it will certainly not become a deficit, and it will certainly not become such a deficit that a young person will no longer be able to buy land. That's a clear exaggeration.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U20	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U21	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! Your colleague, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, claimed that the abolition of the tax on housing land certainly weakens the autonomy of the local government's income base, which, in fact, if you read the coalition agreement, is one of the fundamental values. However, this is not in line with the OECD or IMF recommendations to increase the share of land tax in tax receipts. I think that, of course, people are happy when one or the other tax disappears, that is not the question. But how do you feel about the statements made by the Minister of Finance, how do you comment on them? Or are these people incompetent?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U22	Thank you. First, to autonomy. Here reference was made to the honourable professor who says that the share of local taxes in the income base of local governments in Estonia is very small. In the case of Estonia, it is not necessary for everyone to be a professor to know that about 1% of local government income comes from local taxes, and these taxes are all properly listed in the Act. These taxes are essentially of a regulatory nature: the road-street closure tax has been introduced so that people can travel on roads and streets, not that roads or streets have been dug open at all times in anticipation of pipes or advertising tax, which should regulate the volume of advertising. After all, we do not want our beautiful cities to be visually polluted by advertising, and the local regulatory tax is used. The income base of local governments in Estonia has also been evaluated several times by various international institutions and they have reached more or less the same conclusion, to which the heirs also suggest that yes, the share of local taxes in the income of local governments is small, but the financial autonomy of local authorities is guaranteed by the income base determined by the independent law. No one is making any accusations against the Estonian state in this regard. It is more a question of taste and beauty, whether or not, for example, a land tax can be called a local tax at some point, because even in the case of local taxes, the central government, the parliament, usually sets limits on the extent to which local authorities can change that tax rate. Land tax in itself is a local tax, but in Estonian circumstances it is a national tax. Income tax received by the municipality under the law is also local in nature. This is where it will be paid to the local government, but it will not be possible for local governments to change the tax rate. Although I do not rule out that in the future, for example, local authorities could be given the right to lower the tax rate, but no way to increase it. After all, the share of local taxes in Estonia could also grow very quickly. But this is not the most important thing for local governments, which percentage of their income comes from local taxes. This is not a key issue of local autonomy. The most important role of local government lies in balancing central power and local government must balance central power on the basis of a strong local identity. The right to say no to the central government is why local authorities exist in a democratic state organisation. If we look at European local governments and their funding and compare them with Estonia, we can see that in 11 EU Member States the share of local spending is higher than in all public spending than in Estonia, and in 15 countries the share of public spending at local level is lower in all public spending than in Estonia. We have nothing to be ashamed of in the context of funding local authorities in other Member States of the European Union. Looking at those countries where the share of public spending at local level is the lowest, for example, Malta is the smallest. In Malta, only 1.4% of all public spending is made at the local government level, and I have never heard of the people of Malta, nor of the Congress of Local and Regional Governments of the Council of Europe, where I have been a member for six years, complaining that Malta has problems with local democracy. It is not the size of the wallet that determines local autonomy. Rather, local autonomy determines the constitutional power of local governments to oppose central power. And in Estonia this power has been given so much that local governments can also bring an action against the state in court, for example. It cannot be said that this would be very common among the Member States of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U23	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! I am, of course, sorry that, as far as Tallinn is concerned, the Prime Minister either does not know the law precisely or is deliberately presenting his answers with half-truths. As we know, the amount of the land tax is fixed by law at 2.5%; it has not been established by the City of Tallinn. The local government has the right to grant a discount and Tallinn has granted it because in Tallinn 1.5% of the price of the land tax applies. The price of land taxation is determined on the basis of the rules developed by the State or the Ministry of the Environment. This is how the price of land taxation is done. In fact, there is a state regulation here and Tallinn has, on the contrary, granted concessions, it would have the right to take 2.5%. If you come back to this draft, there is also such a sentence in the explanatory memorandum that the draft does not increase budget expenditure. Maybe that means you don't have to make up for it. What is the guarantee that there will be compensation at all because there will be no compensation under this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U25	Thank you. The bill clearly states that there will be compensation, and the guarantee is right here in front of me, you. The local authority does not have to exercise the right conferred on the local authority when it sees that the right gives rise to very great injustice. The fact that 2.5% of the price of land taxation is not applied in Tallinn, but 1.5% is applied is not an excuse. The city of Tallinn also has the right to apply 0.5%. Why doesn't he do it? The price of taxation of land is not taken by the Ministry of the Environment from anywhere on the loan; it is not an arbitrary number that is voted on in offices or collections somewhere. This price is still largely derived from the prices of transactions in the region. That's where the cost of taxing the land comes from. I think that Estonia could eventually reach the level of Sweden, for example, where the price of land taxation is changed every year. This goes largely without human intervention or, let's say, it comes from a computer and counts all transactions that have been added to the previous period during the year. There is no personal accusation that why the Minister for the Environment or the bad officials of the Ministry of the Environment invented the cost of taxing such land, I have never heard of Sweden. If the city of Tallinn has taken 20,000 kroons from a homeland with a family home, and I was once sent a letter that mentioned an even larger amount of 50,000 kroons, then refer here to Parliament and the Government of the Republic, which seems to be hoarding it, there is no reason in my opinion. You shouldn't be dealing with this. Otherwise, coalition parties should not have started to change this collection of land tax and the fixing of the rate again. If all municipalities were to act rationally, if the majority lacked the will to resort to violence against an innocent minority, this bill would not have been born.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U26	Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U27	Thank you. Prime Minister! You are eager to push this into Tallinn, but I would remind you that the land tax has been raised in 59 towns and municipalities of Estonia during the crisis, and in Tallinn it is not at all high. In the municipalities of Tartumaa it is higher everywhere, as well as in many places in Harjumaa, it is one of the smallest in Tallinn. But I would still ask you what your position on this bill is within the coalition. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly stressed that there are a number of problems and contradictions with this draft, that it has not been coordinated with the OECD and the IMF and that no recommendations to increase the land tax share have been taken into account. The Minister of Finance has also stated that it is not clear how the income from the land tax will be compensated. I'm asking you what.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U28	Returns. I do not want to take your claim that I want to bring the talk to the city of Tallinn seriously at all, because, honestly, we would not have wanted to deal with this bill if we had not been forced to do so. You made me do it. The argument that we should coordinate any of our draft laws with the OECD is, for me, absolutely ridiculous. Don't say that again! Estonia is an independent state, the decision-making power is here in the Riigikogu. The OECD has so far become, and I hope that we will continue to receive valuable analyses, comparisons of best practices, and we know that the OECD's best practices will, in many cases, become global standards. In any case, it is useful for us to cooperate with the OECD, membership in this respectable organisation is in Estonia's interest, but we certainly would not want to be members there if we were to start coordinating our draft laws with them. No!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U29	Please, Mr Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U30	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! Many claims have been made that the income base of local governments is constantly being reduced by various laws. Can you tell me what the statistics say about this? How much has the income base of municipalities decreased over the longer term?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U31	This argument that the local authorities' income base has been steadily declining is, of course, not true. It is true, however, that the income base of local governments has decreased in the global financial crisis, both in Estonia and in many other countries. But, yes, the claim that the income base of local governments has been constantly reduced has sounded a lot, especially from representatives of opposition parties, and as an example it is 11.93% of the income of the individual, which was part of the local government. It should be noted that the former system, according to which 56% of the income tax received went to the local government (and then all income tax advantages and deductions were deducted) and the remainder was the State's, was amended in 2004. At that time, 11.4% of individuals' income was set aside for the remaining part of the local government's income without deduction. Compared to the previous system, local authorities already received significantly more money per year at 11.4%, an increase of around 13% or 12.9%, in this area. And local governments' income from income tax has also always increased. When I look at the years 2002 to 2007, the share of income tax received by local governments has increased 2.26 times That's a huge difference! This is largely due to the fact that the State has retained income tax refunds, as well as the reduction of the income tax rate, which has been borne by the State, while the local authorities have been guaranteed to receive what is prescribed by the law. Local authorities would have received more income if the income share of the municipality had not been reduced from 11,93% to 11,4%, and 430 million kroons per year. This 430 million kroon has always been blamed to the government and told of how local governments have been severely bullied, humiliated and almost insolvent. I don't want to accept that criticism. I'm sorry Mrs. Tuus went out, but I'm talking about Tallinn again. The city of Tallinn alone receives 700 million kroons from the sale of Kyoto allowances, or 45 million euros, plus 300 million kroons from the Cohesion Fund, i.e. billion kroons in order to purchase trams and build trams. The income from personal income tax on all local governments of Estonia decreased by 430 million a year, but the city of Tallinn receives billions in one decision! If you take the local governments of Estonia and look at their water projects, for example, then the funding of water projects is 8.4 billion kroons. Let's say, compared to 430 million, it's quite a lot of money. Looking now at the decline in the share of local government income tax between 2007 and 2010, it has decreased by 7.2%, while the income of the state's personal income tax has decreased by 37.3%. It was also an accusation that the central government would take care of its concerns first and that the concerns of local governments would remain distant, unknown. That's not true! Local governments lost 7.2% of personal income tax receipts, while the state lost 37.3%. I don't think there's much to complain about. Everyone would have been better off if the global financial crisis had not come.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U32	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! There may be compensation for the loss of income of local governments or compensation by the state, but one of the main issues is that the responsibilities of the state and local government are not specified. This is what the Auditor General spoke about here before us. The question here: does the Government of the Republic intend to clarify the tasks of the state and local authorities, whether or not starting in the areas where these issues arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U34	Thank you. We're going to and we're going to be more specific. As I mentioned at the beginning of the response to the real inquiry, the tasks in this year's state budget are set out separately in financial terms, both in the central government and in the local authorities. In principle, on many issues here, of course, the position of the Auditor General can also be contradicted. In recent times, he has also not made it very clear that all local governments need to have exactly one service standard, which all municipalities across Estonia must follow everywhere. When he last appeared before the honourable Riigikogu, he presented this position in the form of a question. Rather, I also believe that democracy, local self-government autonomy, does not mean the establishment of exactly the same standard of service for all municipalities across the country. If the state goes down the path of standardisation, I understand that it should standardise minimum-level services and that every local authority should have the opportunity to do better. In Denmark, for example, local authorities certainly do not provide services according to exactly the same standard. Local taxes are higher in some municipalities and therefore the scope and quality of services are better, while in others taxes are lower and services are less expensive. People have the opportunity to vote with their feet. Whoever feels more independent does not want to receive local services to a large extent, the municipality chooses to live with lower taxes. Who feels it's worth taxes, chooses a local government with higher taxes and better service. But just as in Estonia, the most important role of the local government in Denmark is to balance central power.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U35	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! I happened to listen to your interview on Radio 4, where you were talking about the same tram talk you're talking about right now. You complained that the residents of Tallinn did not thank you for caring about them. So I would first like to thank you on behalf of the people of Tallinn for taking care of us tirelessly. But my question is this: if the government union really has such a great desire to compensate local governments for the loss of income, does this also mean that the sales tax that is lost to local governments will be compensated for in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U37	Oh, no. Are we supposed to re-establish the sales tax? No, I never thought of that. No, no, absolutely not. But as for gratitude, a citizen had sent a letter of gratitude to this radio program. I said they usually get upset and seldom thank you. But thank you for thanking him so much! Rather, it concerned some dispute about the privatisation of the apartment, which I myself do not really remember, but thanks are still pleasant. I think the city of Tallinn will give us thanks. The residents of Tallinn are certainly grateful for Tallinn's 25-year-old trams going to the museum and driving today's trams. I think that a small reason to be grateful is also the City Government of Tallinn, because the investment in Estonian taxpayers' money is made in Estonian kroons in the size of one billion kroons, and the sums are also higher, but the participation of the city of Tallinn in the whole project is 3 million euros, not exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U38	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U39	Mr Prime Minister! The amount of EUR 17 million that the government intends to compensate for is the level of collection of this tax in 2010. The law is intended to be in place from 1 January 2013. Is and how does the government intend to prevent local authorities from deciding to increase the tax rate to the permissible 2.5% in the meantime? In that case, the amount would be much higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U40	Thank you. I'm not going to increase it. It is certainly not intended to make this change in the land tax any additional revenue base for local authorities, who might think that it will not apply to the residents anyway, that this central government will pay twice or three times or five times the rate of loss of income. No, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U41	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U42	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! I hope I am not mistaken, I have heard from one of your responses almost to call for our land tax system or real estate tax system to be as good as Sweden and the e-state. I'm in favour of doing better with two hands, but how can one system that the government wants to abolish now be improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U43	The system won't go away, the system will remain. This exemption is subject to certain restrictions, which can be called tax differentiation. The liver itself will remain, and if anyone has a very large plot, they will have to pay. The current law does not regulate in any way the level of the tax rate for these people. I agree that very many people in Estonia will no longer have to pay land tax, but I am far from the idea that the current amendment to the Land Tax Act will exempt absolutely all Estonian residents from the land tax. Unfortunately, I too have to admit that I will pay the land tax because our plot size in Tartu is 2400 m2, but we are talking only about the 1500 m2 tax exemption. I hope that the City of Tartu will not increase the tax rate of 900 m2 outside the land tax exemption in such a way that I will have to start paying even more than I currently pay for the entire 2400 m2, as unfortunately has happened in some areas of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U44	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U45	Thank you, manager. First of all, a comment. Before, there was a push for municipalities to be happy, because although a piece of income tax was taken away, more has come back through the Cohesion Fund. However, it is by its very nature, in financial terms completely incomparable, because generally, the Cohesion Fund's money that reaches the municipality goes to the municipal authorities to carry out their'responsibilities' and the municipalities need to put more money in it in the form of their own contribution, rather than vice versa. I think that comparison was a little inappropriate. Secondly, continuing with my colleague's previous question. You spoke of the 'good Swedish system', which you have heard of from the Swedes and where, for example, the foundations of land tax are reviewed each year, where real estate tax taxation may be involved, etc. If you consider this to be a good system, why hasn't one step taken in this direction in the six years that you have led the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U46	Thank you. The system so far has also been a functioning system. Only in recent times has this system become truly disturbing and prone to the property of many people. The behaviour of some specific local governments is what has led to the current steps of coalition parties. I cannot in any way agree with your attitude towards cohesion funds. As if the money wasn't important, it doesn't make you happy, damn it, the local government must also put its money in order to build a proper drinking water supply or sewerage with a sewage treatment plant. It is amazing to hear such a view from a member of the Riigikogu! In addition to EU funding, local authorities will receive EUR 35 million, for example, to increase the energy efficiency of buildings, which is EEK 560 million, still in order to improve thermal insulation, to increase energy savings. It can always be said that it is also designed to carry out tasks. I'd just like to do my own TV, but they're telling me to build a kindergarten warmer. I'd like to give out the papers in the district properly, from the heart, but they're telling me to clean up the waste water! Yes, it has been my seventh year, but I can still be surprised in this House. Don't do that again!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U47	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! This inquiry today has, in fact, gone into a broader debate on local government budgets. When listening to your answers, the local governments of Estonia should be very happy about what the government has promised or offered them in recent years. You have pointed out here that the share of personal income tax has decreased by EEK 430 million, but in fact the Equalisation Fund has also decreased by more than EEK 330 million, road money has been reduced by half a billion, etc. I would still like to stay within the scope of the subject and ask about the area of compensation. A regular valuation of the land may lead the country to increase the price to the land-rewarding land and may try to compensate the local authorities for possible land tax relief. Could it be like this, or can you tell me what these receipts could be worth?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U49	At the moment, coalition parties want to compensate for the remaining part of the land tax they have not collected from other receipts from the state budget. Yes, it is clear that the regular valuation of the land, which has not been carried out for a long time, is likely to lead to an increase in the rate of taxation of the land, and this is where the local authorities should certainly reduce the percentage to which they are actually taxing the land. It would be very bad if the local authorities said that, but see, the government gave us the price for taxing new land, we have the right to take 2.5%, and that is what we are now taking. This basis, in itself, the cost of taxing the land, must come objectively, without any official or political will. This must primarily reflect the real price of the land and should be one of the accounting starting points; politicians in the local government council should decide what is the correct rate of land tax that one landlord, business owner should be asked to cover the city or municipality's own costs. But it's a matter of local order, and I wouldn't want to dictate anything here. I would just like to call on our local authorities not to politicise the price of land taxation, which is not a political number.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U50	Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! I would like to know your opinion on what local taxes could the local government of Estonia apply at all according to the European Charter for Local Government, and what reasons could it offer our people?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U52	Thank you. I do not think that the local governments of Estonia should think about how to get some extra taxes, whether they are sales taxes or boat taxes or whatever taxes, in order to collect more tax money from the people and not spend this money most purposefully. We have local taxes listed in the law. There are not many of them, there is not much revenue from it, but in order to regulate certain processes, I have brought here, for example, the road and road-block taxes, they must be used. The majority of local government revenue is secured by a statutory income base and the most important part of this income base is 11.4% of individual income, which I believe will soon grow again and reach the 11.93% level before the crisis. The important element of the income base of local governments guaranteed by this law is also a fine-tuning fund, which, in my opinion, we do not currently have a very large debate on, because all local authorities, both wealthier and less wealthy, consider this distribution formula to be relatively fair. Land tax was similarly legally guaranteed by the local government's source of income. If the legislator reduces the amount of this revenue, it will compensate for it from other resources. I think this may be the case, but as has already been said, we are going to do an analysis. We are considering all options and it may be that local authorities receive more local taxes, the rate of which they themselves may change to a certain extent. But I do not consider it possible to give local authorities the free hand to increase taxes unreasonably.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U53	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U54	Thank you. Prime Minister! It seems to me that the more time comes into the evening, the more you speak against yourself. If you started by saying that municipalities should not be so violent with their tax rates, then now you are saying that local governments should have their own taxes, their own tax rates, their own budget, etc. It's a good thing you didn't call here yet, just like your coalition partner, Juhan Parts, to commend the government, the government has all done to make the local authorities feel good. The real situation is pretty weepy. I come back to our question today and to the same judgment that says that the Government of the Republic should develop legislation that separates and regulates local obligations and obligations of the State. A revenue base must be provided to local governments. My question is: how far have these draft laws, these decisions come and when do they come to this Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U55	Thank you. I have already listed a large part of the income base guaranteed by the local government law in answer to your previous question. I believe that the news about the income base guaranteed by the Estonian Local Government Act is certainly not here for you. The increase in the number of local taxes certainly does not, in my opinion at least, mean the right of the local government to increase the tax rates indefinitely. On the contrary, my confidence in local authorities is not so great that I would be prepared to pass on current national taxes to a local tax with the freedom to raise tax rates. However, I am prepared to hand over national taxes to local governments with the authority, free of charge of the municipality, to decide to lower these rates. So maybe a local government tax could be an individual income tax, but in today's size, 11.4% of individual income, and local government could, for example, have the right to reduce it to, I don't know, 10%. But this 11.4% is the ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U56	Please, Mr Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U57	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! I hope you will agree with me that all of us in this Chamber are legitimate, legally present as members of the Riigikogu and you are here as Prime Minister. I hope you will agree that we have the right to ask you questions and receive calm, constructive answers. We hear such statements: 'it is astonishing to hear from the members of the Riigikogu', 'do not do it any more'. Explain to me as a member of the Riigikogu what we must not yet ask you so that you, God forbid, do not become upset.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U58	Thank you. No, it wasn't upset now, but an intelligent person even understands what's appropriate and what's stupid. I'd like to hear intelligent questions all the time. The intelligent person must certainly not view the resources of the Estonian state budget so that, since some funds have come from somewhere in Brussels, it is like there is no money, but what has been collected itself is real and correct money. Certainly a member of the Riigikogu should not view water management issues, the provision of clean drinking water to its inhabitants, or the treatment of waste water in any way as an under-value activity imposed by Brussels, which would certainly not be done if no one forced us to do so. I think that the people of Estonia have always been in the habit of maintaining cleanliness, and this could continue to be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U59	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U60	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I hope I'm not asking a very unintelligent question. There has been some talk today about possible compensation for this draft that we have here in the process. I have this quite specific question: will the plan to compensate municipalities for the loss of income be based on this loss of income itself, or will there be some other parameters on which it will depend?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U61	This is certainly the result of the loss of revenue itself, and certainly no one needs to understand that if, now, before the law is adopted, we hurry up and bring this tax rate well up by 2013, that is the loss of revenue. It's so stupid for anyone to think of our country, it's not going to be compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U62	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U63	Thank you, good manager. Mr Prime Minister! I'm going to ask you a more specific question like this. Four or five questions ago, you answered that pretty soon this percentage share of local governments' income tax will be back, 11.9. A few questions later, you said 11.4 is the ceiling. Forgive me for not understanding me, but which one is he? So is this ceiling 11.9 or...?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U64	Right now the ceiling is 11.4, next year it may be 11.6. One day he could be 11.93. But if we talk in today's context, if we hand over today's revenue base and local governments get their individual income tax, it would be 11.4 at the moment. What's it gonna be next year? The budget decides, you decide. Of course, it depends on how well the economy is growing, how fast the country's revenues are growing. That is what I will take to say once again that the share of personal income tax going to local governments will soon be 11,93% again, as it was before the crisis. And there is no news in this, even when we were cutting, it was repeatedly stressed that this was a temporary measure. It should be recalled once again that local authorities felt less loss of personal income tax than the State as a whole. I will say once again the percentages: the income of the local government's share of income tax increased 2.26 times between 2002 and 2007 and decreased 7.2% between 2007 and 2010, the country had an increase of 38.4% and a decrease of 37.3%. So, the country's growth is worse, the decline is considerably greater than that of local governments. But that was the answer to the reference to the question, as if the state were thinking first of itself and then of local governments. The figures speak of other things.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U65	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U66	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Yana Toomi, Tarmo Tamme, Rainer Vakra, Viktor Vassilyev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Inara Luigas, Kalle Laanet and Kalev Kallo on 14 April this year to ensure the stability of the euro area. Kalev Kallo to the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U67	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of Finance! Estonia has been a full member of the euro area since s. a 1st January, when the euro was adopted in Estonia. In this short time, the financial problems of certain countries have also become a concern of the Estonian state. The European Financial Stability Fund (EFSF) has been established in Europe to remedy the situation rapidly. Estonia has not yet joined this fund, but the relevant ratification process is expected to take place in the Riigikogu in the first half of this year. In addition to the European Financial Stability Facility, it has been agreed in principle that from 2013 the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, will be operational, with which accession is essentially mandatory for the euro area countries, while the other EU countries will be voluntary. Countries are expected to make a total of EUR 80 billion in financial contributions to the ESM. Estonia will have to pay 149 million euros in five years, in equal parts from July 2013. Thus, Estonia's contribution is about 30 million euros per year. For this amount, it is possible to build about 15 kindergartens with a new kindergarten construction cost of EUR 1.9 million. Our kindergartens will not be built because, for example, Greece, where it takes 12% of gross domestic product to pay pensions, must be supported, while the European Union average is only 3%. We are also concerned about the fact that the Minister of Finance in Europe has certainly already given his consent and almost put his hands on everything. So far, there has been no debate in Parliament, unlike Finland, where a proper debate was held, in particular, in Parliament. We once again have the role of a rubber stamp on a beautiful horizon. In this regard, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Finance that we hope to be wiser in answering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U68	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. Now, please, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I have to say that most of the enquiries, not the next one, but most of them have the problem of having a lot of faulty statements in the introductory section. A small fact: in fact, we do not have to ratify the agreements concerning these funds in the first half of the year. As far as promises are concerned, all countries follow the same procedures. Finance ministers and prime ministers act within the limits of their powers and everyone knows that parliamentary procedures will follow. However, when it comes to comparing kindergartens with kindergartens, such a thing is being avoided. This does not prevent the establishment of kindergartens. At the same time, the attitude is not to help others who have gone too far with all kinds of construction, but that might be too much. When you think about it, it's the wrong way to think about it. But I will first try to introduce the general principles of the stability mechanisms of the European Union and the euro area. The financial stability of the European Union and the euro area and the functioning of the common market are essential for the development and security of Europe, including Estonia. This is precisely why stability mechanisms have been put in place to provide assistance to countries in difficulties. But this is only on the condition that they carry out very thorough economic reforms that will enable them to deal with themselves in the future and to borrow from the market. It can be said that the same solidarity, but in the form of non-refundable assistance, will be ours through the Structural Funds. The pre-condition for lending through the mechanisms of the euro area and the European Union is a very strong economic programme of a Member State, as I said, and it must be approved by both the European Union and the IMF. Payment under a loan agreement is conditional on compliance with the conditions laid down. It shall be monitored quarterly and, if the conditions are not met, the money shall not be paid out. Now the questions. What is the volume of Estonia in the guarantees? First, Estonia and EFSF. Estonia guarantees a maximum of 1.99 billion, say EUR 1.995 billion in principal shares of loans or bonds issued by the EFSF. They will be complemented by a guarantee on EFSF's loan servicing costs. In fact, Estonia's share will probably remain much smaller because Estonia will not join the EFSF from the beginning, but most likely from the turn of the year. We can now predict the impact of the Irish and Portuguese programmes on Estonia from the time Estonia participates in the provision of guarantees. In 2012-2013, EFSF is likely to have to borrow EUR 20 billion. The amendments to the framework agreement impose an over-guarantee requirement, because not all countries are rated AA like this fund itself. But that's not reflected in the loan burden. Estonia's share of this fund is 0.28% after these losses, but it does not mean real money. In fact, it means a pay-per-view guarantee. Estonia's debt burden, as has been said, is not reflected in the over-guarantee. Between 2012 and 2013, we are talking about about 4% of the planned level of debt in 2013. This figure will decrease if the loans are repaid. Now Estonia and ESM. There is a total capital volume of EUR 700 million, of which 80 million will be paid-in and 620 million will be called, i.e. demand capital. The objective is to ensure ESM's lending capacity of 500 billion. Here we can say that Estonia's maximum limit or contribution is final. The share of capital called for by the ESM does not increase the burden of loans we issue, the maximum contribution of Estonia over five years is 149 million, or approximately 30 million euros per year. It shall be paid up for a period of five years, as agreed by the Council. The remaining share of the ESM we have is EUR 1.15 billion, which is 0.186% of the 620 billion. Hypothetical paid-in capital in Estonia can amount to 1.3 billion euros. The loans taken by Estonia are not reflected in the debt burden of the founding countries, as the ESM is similar to the IMF, it is an independent international financial organisation. The next question concerns possible means of payment other than money. Whether large countries can use high-rated government bonds as a deposit, Estonia will make a contribution in cash. In fact, the terms of the contribution are equal for all. Our problem is just that we can't reach the AA rating. The answer to the following question is that Estonia's participation is 0.186% according to current calculations. However, it is clear that the ESM client country does not participate in the guarantees. That's what I said. What is the risk of developing new countries in need of help in the European Union? We can say that there are no direct candidates at the moment, because of the dropout, our participation will increase from 0.26% to 0.28%. Of course, market speculation is a source of nervousness on this subject. But it can really be said that more countries that are late in serious problems and with their reforms are not currently seen. The ESM does not allow the State to withdraw from the equity participation. All euro area countries contribute to the capital of the ESM, whether they are programme countries or not. That's the difference from the EFSF. All States are also obliged, if necessary, to take part in the burden of the capital called for. The next question is that the first news of the Greek state's situation came in 2009. Ireland and Portugal were added to Greece. This is not an unexpected situation, but these countries had sustainability problems much earlier, and so on. It is therefore a question of history. Countries are different. There are those who have been going beyond force for a long time, indeed Greece, as well as Portugal. However, there are also victims of the financial crisis, such as Ireland, who really had the immediate cause of the problems in terms of the size of the financial sector. But it can be said that one era in Europe is, however, over. The unsustainable lifestyle and the disregard of European Union requirements will no longer be tolerated. This is not accepted by the market, which means that the market cannot borrow, which is the real reason for these packages of aid, nor is it accepted by the European Union. A completely different monitoring system has been set up by now. Misleading countries are forced to change by strong economic policy measures and, by proving this, they are able to correct fundamental errors with the support of the IMF and the euro area stability mechanisms. Everything should end up with the euro area being stronger than before. In general, apart from accepting the principle of European solidarity, we should make a clear distinction between the aid to be recovered and the aid to be paid. And I also recall that we are getting much more and more irrecoverable help from Europe. It is certainly not appropriate for us to use too much of the elevated voice in Europe. What we should demand is indeed reforms in those countries that are in trouble. And that is what we demand. I would like to put to the heart of the Riigikogu and political parties, as well as, in general, interest groups, that everything that has taken place and is happening should be a lesson. All kinds of responsibilities for the public sector and unreasonable tax incentives should not really be applied for, as happens here almost every week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U70	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. You have questions too. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In Finland, there was a social debate on aid programmes. My question is when such debates are planned in Estonia. Will they even come in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U72	The debates are up to us. I have been open all along, giving comments on this topic all along, and I have been ready to respond if anyone wants to debate. Fortunately, we have not had this kind of domestic foaming to the extent that regrettably has been organised in Finland. Of course, there is also a difference here: Finland is a country that makes a very clear contribution to the policy of the European Union; we are rather a recipient country and, in our case, courtesy is more natural. At the same time, the Finnish debate has sometimes gone beyond the limits of courtesy and does not have to be envious of them. I hope that things will take a calmer path in Estonia, and even statements of foreign hatred such as the one that has been in the Finnish press will be out of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U73	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! I don't want to debate, but I'm interested in something like this. For some time on the website of the Ministry of Finance, I believe that there was a rather meaningful file that reflected the risks posed by the Financial Stability Fund and the European Stability Mechanism. After the newspaper Äripäev had taken an interest in the matter and amplified the subject, I wanted to look again at this information, but I was shocked to discover that I could no longer find support to fill the gaps in knowledge. The file was gone. It made me wonder why it disappeared. Did you change the positions of the Ministry, or am I the only one who thinks that the subject has not yet been exhausted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U75	I very much hope that you really are such an in-depth MP that you will study the website of the Ministry of Finance and familiarize yourself with the source materials. But if so, you could have asked earlier, now it seems that this is more of a newspaper discovery. What do I say about this paper? It was a fingernail. This paper is a typical working document, where there is not much emphasis on the use of words and how the outside eye can understand everything. And so it happened that we removed it simply because unofficial paper is confusing. I even remember a few words, such eloquent language phrases that people used to exchange thoughts with one another, written in one file, and in some way incomprehensible, this wrong file ended up on our homepage. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance has been very busy lately. But there's no cover-up here. There is nothing to be ashamed of in general, but there is certainly an embarrassing mistake in terms of form and clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U76	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U77	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Indeed, I do not want to bully you now, but to clarify. Of course, solidarity is very good, but we know that last November-December Austria started to rebel and did not want to give Greece its share of the aid. Austria considered that Greece was unable to meet its commitments. There is Portugal, there is Ireland, there is Greece, there is Spain at the door. Do you think that with its limited possibilities, Estonia will be able to participate fully in the assistance package in the near future, taking into account the needs that we ourselves have in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U78	These programmes do not in themselves impose any burden on the shoulders of Estonia. Since we've kept our own debt burden and deficit in check, we'll be fine. We also have reserves that can do this, even in a fiscal neutral way. Of course, it's not a lucky thing or an investment. It still links our resources. The EFSF does not actually link resources but provides guarantees. We do not see the possibility that guarantees will materialise in a few years, but, yes, under normal circumstances, we would not just share such guarantees. It's still an emergency. In the case of ESM, which also means a large financial contribution, we can manage. We would not spend this money on domestic needs. This is definitely an internal contribution. And once again, all of these guarantees and loans earn interest, so the direct cost of the two things together is, I would say, nonexistent when we look at the alternative costs. But one uncomfortable burden is, of course. As far as the statements made by the various countries are concerned, this Austrian declaration has already been forgotten. But I can tell the countries without specifying the information that all such press affairs have ended very awkwardly in the circle of finance ministers. These individual finance ministers have had to hear comments on this and confirm that they have been misunderstood. So it's not that easy. Disparaging countries in distress is not only politically but also economically risky. Markets and investors are responding to this and this simply increases the need for aid. Market access will also be weakened. In general, in the context of European policies, such national public disparagements have never come to an end well for the depreciators themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U79	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U80	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! You mentioned the lessons learned at the end of your questioning response and the lessons learned from them, including that in the future no unprotected promises or unjustified tax incentives would be made. Can the land tax exemption for housing land be included in the latter?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U81	Oh, you've forgotten the real name of this tax, it's a land tax for homeowners. If we're talking about the same thing, we'll try to get an answer during the next question. I am not a fan of this bill or this measure. The Prime Minister also highlighted certain differences here, and I have not changed my views.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U82	Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U83	Thank you. Dear Minister, In fact, we do not know exactly what amounts are in the stability fund and what we need to do. There has been talk of an initial amount of EUR 148 million, i.e. EEK 2.3 billion. The EUR 1.3 billion, which would then be more than EEK 20 billion and which is probably the real amount to be paid, has not been said at all. What are these sums, in fact, and how much do we have to borrow? We know that Estonia has always boasted that it will not take out a loan now probably have to be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U84	At the moment, Estonia does not have a direct need for credit. But I can try to present these facts to you again in writing, apparently it was difficult for you to follow. I admit that we should actually deal with such matters in the context of reading the bill. There are a lot of real and hypothetical maximum possible numbers that should be presented in black white. I don't think it's gonna be much clearer when I start reading this passage again. The idea is that EUR 148 or EUR 149 million is an up payment, so-called "equity capital" to this fund, the rest can be paid in. But all these amounts depend on real credit needs, and my gut is telling me that it is quite difficult for 17 countries to make their parliaments increase these amounts in the future. In fact, the taxpayer is also resisting at one point and these are such consensual decisions. I think that the baseline scenario we need to address is the pressure on these beneficiaries. They do not, in fact, have a choice, and the state will not be funded if it fails to do its reforms. We can be happy because we have had a reasonable nation, but in those countries that are most powerful, the people are on the streets with completely unreasonable demands. So we can be proud, instead of feeling sorry that we don't have our streets to deal with. It's really embarrassing. It's the same people who don't pay as much taxes as they want to spend. This understanding, I think, has already reached the finance ministers and, more broadly, reaches the governments, but it must gradually reach the streets.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U85	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! Estonia is going to make contributions to the European Stability Mechanism and you said that it is nothing disastrous. This tax will earn interest and will be more profitable in the future. My question is based on the assumption that all those countries that are currently experiencing credit difficulties will receive such one-off support and put their economies in order. Have the finance ministers also discussed the extent to which the economic growth of one Member State or another in difficulty must be in order to overcome the difficulties and return to the Member States the money that will be channelled to the stability mechanism?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U87	It is not a question of economic growth directly; it is a question of the primary surplus. This means that without the cost of borrowing interest rates, the state should be able to earn more than it spends. There's a principle. In particular, structural reforms and direct expenditure cuts are needed, which must bring spending down and the revenue base, of course, upwards of what is promised. I do not like to stress this hopeful interest rate very much; it was simply a consolation. In the case of EFSF, with no money in it, I mentioned this rather because, in the case of EFSF, our participation is proportionally higher than in the case of ESM. If you've seen the press, in the case of the ESM, when we were already at the table, we could argue. We traded ourselves at a lower rate, which is more or less in proportion to our GDP, while for EFSF, the proportion is half of GDP. But I'm not very unhappy about it. First of all, it was a matter that had been decided earlier, and we did not have the possibility of having this battle just then we were not in the euro zone. Secondly, the guarantee does indeed generate interest. We don't need money, but for this commitment, which is likely to happen next year, we will really earn interest. You don't just make those promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U88	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U89	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'd like to ask you for advice on preventive measures. We all know: in order to join the euro area, the country must meet very strict Maastricht criteria. At the same time, the current situation shows that a country aspiring to membership of the euro area must comply with these criteria with detailed precision, while the old euro area countries are free to whistle to them. This is definitely not normal. What is your position: what preventive measures should be taken so that the future case of Greece, Ireland and Portugal is not repeated?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U90	One of the minor inaccuracies in your question was, but in general, it is true that the joiner of the union is, in general, noticeable elsewhere, that the pope must be more holy than the pope. It must promise that it will not create more instability and indiscipline, and it must have a financial balance achieved so that it does not weaken the euro or its policies. Many of those inside have been more relaxed for a long time, and now, as a result of the financial crisis, the situation is out of place in most countries. Overreaction, the creation of national incentives in the broadest sense, also plays a major role here, of course. In fact, they were neither effective nor sustainable. But yes, it has been exaggerated by this response of the last century. At the moment, countries are in a very different situation and it is difficult to serve the debt that has grown. This is the main economic threat in Europe in the medium term. But I already mentioned that the situation has changed, that it is no longer tolerated. Today, besides Estonia and Luxembourg, all countries in the euro area have to undergo an excessive deficit procedure, only Sweden is still outside, others are all under international pressure. Of course, it is the countries that are no longer able to borrow from the market at a bearable price that are under clear pressure and a lack of sovereignty. These are Greece, Ireland and Portugal in the euro area. But even outside the euro zone there are members of this programme, one of them being Latvia. Hungary is so and so. Hungary has deviated from the agreements and no more money, it will instead borrow more expensively and try to postpone solving the problems. But there are other countries, Romania, for example, who are directly dependent on the international community because of their own budget expenditure and economic policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U91	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U92	Let's get to the last question. This is the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme, Kadri Simson, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Ester Tuiksoo and Priit Toobali. Inquiry submitted on 21 April 2010 on the local governments, the OECD report and land tax. Mr Tarmo Tamme, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U93	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! When the Prime Minister came here to answer our questions, he basically devoted an hour to the same question that I am now presenting to Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance. This concerns municipalities, the OECD report and land tax. First of all, I congratulate the Ministry of Finance and the Minister, because they reached essentially the same views as we, the authors of the inquiry. This concerns the OECD position, the autonomy of the local authority and also the fact that the loss of income must be compensated for by the local authorities. In order not to go over the whole issue, I would like to make it clear that we are most concerned with the question that if the central government considers that if the local government does not in principle share the views that the central government represents, then should the laws be amended. This applies in this case to the Tallinn land tax, which is 1.5% of the price of taxation of land, while we know that in Viimsi and Harku this rate is 2.5% of the price of taxation of land. However, these municipalities are not wanted to be mentioned in any way. As we know, land tax is collected in the state budget and the cost to the state budget is approximately 255 million kroons. I have an additional question for the Minister for Finance: where will this money be found in difficult times? We do know that there is not enough money in the state budget to carry out all the tasks foreseen? However, another question is that this tax will not improve the business environment in any way. This tax is only for a certain company and the state budget it means only expenditure. So, thank you, Mr Finance Minister, for the opinion you gave on this bill, but we have five questions that we hope will be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U94	Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance for the premiere.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This letter has been selectively quoted here in several ways. As a politician, we all know that there must be compromises in politics. In this sense, I also said to the government by commenting on the draft, that since it is very important for the people with whom I want to work, I will not make a non-supporting assessment of this, but I will disagree on a number of points. I am not at all satisfied with the dirty form of this draft, from the title to almost the last sentence of the explanatory memorandum. And I am not really happy with this procedure either. Such legal and budgetary problems, all of which are in the air, cannot be resolved in a week. The Riigikogu, on the other hand, really only deals with the draft within a week of the amendments to be submitted within a week. I don't see any reason for this! But I have already said all this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and I have remained in a minority there, just as I have also remained in a minority in the debate on this issue in the coalition. It's my destiny. Now to the questions. The first question concerns whether the tax on the rest of the world will increase. First of all, these things aren't up to me, they're up to the councils. I don't know how they decide. But if you want to know my personal tax policy position, I am pleased if the municipalities have the opportunity to compensate for it. That is exactly how I dealt with the coalition negotiations, and that is exactly how I understood the coalition agreement. If it is found and demonstrated that it is socially justified to exempt 1500 square metres of land tax, then the municipalities should be given every opportunity to collect the necessary money in a different way. I do not consider it reasonable that it is my personal and minority opinion that it is simply compensated for by other taxpayers, i.e. the state budget. Because from the point of view of the tax system, from the point of view of the municipality, I think it is very important that the tax is linked to local life, local territory. After all, the municipality is actually responsible for the area where it delivers it is incontrovertible, it cannot be raised to another place, and for these people, by providing public service to people, but also by raising the value of this land. If the property is still in a well-managed place, its value will be greater. If the municipality has guaranteed access to public order, then perhaps even if it is central in principle, but the municipality has ensured lighting and infrastructure in general, then there is nothing wrong with the landlord, whether he lives in the area or not, for which he also pays the tax. That has also been my position in the government coalition. So, in itself, I don't think this is wrong if this tax is collected in another way. The second question is the function of land tax in the tax system. It is a state tax received by the local government at the place where the land is located and should, in theory, promote the effective use of the land. If the explanatory memorandum on this draft is one of my main criticism objects bespeaks the land tax on residential property to be immoral, inappropriate, etc., then, of course, the answer is only that it must be an affordable tax. If this goes beyond reasonable, it's a problem. If I get the information that this is beyond reasonable in Tallinn, Viimsi and Harku, I'll tell you what I think of it, but we were not even given time to work through this data set and make suggestions. The fact that land tax cannot be forced to give up home is also my opinion. But I don't underestimate, I don't ridicule the theoretical principle of land tax, that land tax must ensure the effective functioning of the market. After all, it also means that a person who wants to buy must have the opportunity to buy. For example, in Tallinn, where I have been looking around, there are not very many shopping opportunities, not from a personal purchase request, but just from a professional interest. The price is high, the offer is very low. However, the basic idea of land taxation is that the land is a limited resource. If I am completely opposed to property tax because it is an investment made by myself, then the land is something that does not arise and which should therefore be taxed simply because someone is holding it and no one else can at the same time. I see land tax as a small signal to the market, and so does tax theory. This signal disappears and, in this sense, I still recommend that the argument be strongly adapted to the procedure of this draft. Maybe you could also think about alternatives, more proportionate solutions. But once again, I am not the one who says these things in advance, it is the decision of the Riigikogu. Question 3: 'Does the coalition discuss the question of the possible application of real estate tax in Estonia? ' I won't. Personally, I am very opposed to that. Once again, there is no need to tax things that have been built many times, if more can be done. There is no need to tax property. Buildings that have been purchased or self-built, which can be made, do not have to be taxed forever. It has meaning in regions with a very large shadow economy, where the question arises as to whether really black revenues cannot be taxed in other ways than by means of existing real estate. It's the other way around, there's not gonna be any more. Having it and, at the same time, spending by the municipality, the state and, at all, the public authorities on valuing the land is why I do not agree with the argument that it is an immoral tax. It can not be imposed, but it is not right to call it immoral. Question 4: 'In your assessment of the proposals of the OECD Economic Report, you have noted that the implementation of the proposals of the report is hampered by political tendencies in Estonia. ' I certainly didn't say they were interrupting, I said I didn't. It was simply a finding that the agreements were different. And so he is. I do not expect these recommendations to be followed, and we always respond to them and very openly talk about which OECD or IMF recommendations are realistic and which are not. With regard to land tax, I said that political tendencies do not support it, so forget it if you want. That's kind of what I said. Finally, 'What effect can a reduction in the land tax have on the financial autonomy of local authorities? " Definitely a weakening effect. But this is not an inescapable situation. In my letter, as you have already seen, I recommend a regular valuation of the land, or some other mechanism to better account for its market value, but certainly a highly flexible system. As the Prime Minister said, there is no point in allowing unreasonable tax rates to arise. If it appears in some regions that the market price is very high and has serious social consequences, guarantees should be included in the law. I also advised the government not to allow unreasonable tax rates to arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U96	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Now the questions. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U97	Thank you. Good minister! If it were to happen that the draft would go through in this Chamber and be passed as a law, then it would probably go to the Ministry of Finance to compensate and develop the mechanism in question. It's gonna be yours. What is your opinion: will this compensation in the future be based on income lost in a particular municipality or another solution will be invented?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U98	I am not at all a supporter of compensation in terms of the idea, which is why I cannot offer this hypothetical maximum option in any way. The Prime Minister has already said that the basis could still be the income received so far at some point, so perhaps it will be possible to prevent possible municipal manipulations. But I really don't approve of this compensation. Why, for example, should a buyer of food or footwear compensate for the cost of a property in a pleasant area? In this respect, our tax system is characterised by a very clear logic. I have got into a fight here in the Riigikogu Group when I have been told that the state has to pay up. And I am outnumbered! I admit that's what they tell me. I don't care about my identity here, but my substantive answer is that if the state pays, the taxpayer will pay. And the fundamental considerations of the tax system are based on the question of which taxpayer then. I say that, in this case, the taxpayer who possesses this unlimited resource should pay. But this is now a theoretical debate, because obviously the Riigikogu is of a different opinion in this regard and this needs to be taken into account. And we have to figure out what to do. In general, I have not been given time for in-depth analyses to compensate the municipality for more or less the same amount without a regular assessment. Which I really don't mind. Those people who actually live on the ground would really get rid of the pressure and feel better, but the municipality's ability to collect taxes on the ground, including from people living elsewhere, businesses, etc., who own a piece of land, would remain. You just have to put things into perspective here and not be ashamed. If indeed the tax on the land under home is a major problem in Estonian municipalities, this is a possible solution that has not yet been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U99	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U100	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! You have mentioned several times that you have not been given time. So how much time do you need to analyze it properly? Here, in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the sentence that the exemption from land tax also increases the price of land and reduces turnover and thus reduces access to housing for young families. Have there been any adjustments to the percentage of this increase, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U101	That's my sentence, I wrote it in my hand. This sentence should be read in its entirety and I consider it decisive that this solution reduces turnover. The sale will certainly be postponed because it is not necessary. The economy is growing, possession of the land does not mean any direct cost, it is said that it does not ask for bread, the very simple wisdom of the old people. That is the main economic reason why this bill bothers me. Similarly, of course, the fact that the link with local governments is weakening. There are different considerations. And it really cannot be denied that the arguments and data that the proponents have put forward, I have not been able to analyse adequately. In this sense, the pace of the draft procedure could have been slower. We applied for it to be postponed at least to the third quarter. But I can't tell you, I wasn't given the answer to why it's impossible to postpone to the third quarter. The sacred decision of the Riigikogu, I must obey.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U102	Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U103	Thank you. You said that this draft is a compromise, and it simply needs to be supported. Please tell me what bill you will receive from the IRL for this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U104	Before me, there was a bill of a passionate defender in this remote area, the head of government. What makes you think the IRL alone will support this? It also has very strong supporters in my party, such as Keit Pentus and Valdo Randpere. I can't even read all those names before sundown, maybe I can't remember. Once again, different opinions are allowed in one liberal party. And he who's outnumbered doesn't have to assume he's the smartest, maybe he's the dumbest.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U105	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U106	Thank you, Minister, for your very sincere and honest answers. I still have the question that you have to find somewhere 255 million kroons to compensate for the amount that local governments are missing. For example, in Harku parish, the place fee for kindergarten had to be increased. What kind of tax increase does the state have to raise in order to obtain this sum? And can you comment briefly on the rates of land tax elsewhere in the European Union? As far as I know, the land tax in the European Union is quite decent.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U107	In most European countries, I believe that property tax is a property tax, but I have not looked at this statistics for a long time. I don't think that's right. These are certain rudiments in the tax system, which are not justified in theory, but simply by the opinion of the people. Well, I wouldn't back off the land tax theoretically, but I wouldn't back off the property tax. You mentioned Harku here. I am not ashamed to criticise Harku's land tax exemption, and now I am in a situation where the same happens to Estonia as a whole. But if there is no such general vacuum in Estonia, Harkus will do so on the spot. One defender of this bill wrote to prove how important it is for people that after the tax was abolished, 80 people registered in Harku within a week. I call it a fake deal, and I say it didn't bring any more wealth. In the future, I will see a huge opportunity for such festive transactions: the family will simply register on different properties, receiving discounts from all sides. I, as Minister of Finance, are very concerned about this. I don't know how to manage these things. In any case, human corruption will work, and adult family members will surely register in different locations. But Harku, for example, gave this reason, and then his allies insisted that you see how nice the people signed in. But where did wealth come from? Where did fair competition come from? It was just a mouse click. Was this the result of a better public service? Is there more wealth? Did people discover that it was important to them, suddenly their home? What if it turns out I actually live in Harku? I don't think that's the philosophy of homeowners, let's say, a nomad's way of surfing the Internet. And let's take the title of this bill. This does not reflect the real problem, as does the explanatory memorandum. When we say 'home', we leave legal terms untapped and leave the possibility of various manipulations. But I've learned from the initiators of the bill that the title is being changed. It could have been done right away. There will be problems because we have no legal meaning for home. Our records are relatively fictitious. So let's not pretend that different family members are starting to feel at different places at home. Unfortunately, that will be the case in the future. Many have a number of properties of summer homes, bequeathed farms, and all of them will definitely find residents. Not all family members need an immediate public service from the local government, which would force them to register there. I would just like to say in this long story that, good people of the Riigikogu, you should proceed with this bill calmly and deal with these problems. These are real problems. So it is a real problem that in some places the land tax is too high, as well as that it is not moral to implement the proposed solution in this way. Rather, you might say that it favours immorality, tax evasion. It's definitely not moral. The call again: deal with the substance! I do not want to say that the problem raised by the bill is not real. It's real, but we shouldn't throw the baby out with the bath water, or how it is. It's a pretty serious change.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U108	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U109	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Like you, I consider the biggest problem with this bill to be that once again we are going after the autonomy of the local governments' revenue base. This year, this is the second attempt. The first time the Riigikogu revoked the right of local government to impose sales tax. If we look at KOKS, there will soon be no chance for local governments to generate their own revenue base. However, while reading the coalition agreement and examining which values it considers important, point 12 of the coalition states that the aim of the coalition is to increase the autonomy of the local government's income base. I don't understand the plans and declarations go against what they do. Other than that, I can't explain it. We speak in the slogans that there is a need to increase autonomy, while in practice we take away opportunities from local authorities to generate revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U110	I'm sorry, I was distracted and I didn't catch that question! I was thinking of something else. Can you repeat the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Some time ago, such information appeared that the European Union was seriously discussing the question of how to expand the tax opportunities of local governments, as local governments have encountered problems in times of crisis and after the crisis. How do you assess this trend and the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! You rightly said that this bill was not only badly written, but rather nastyly written. The Committee on Monetary Affairs today asked quite a lot of questions about this. There is no impact analysis, no coordination with the Association of Estonian Cities and local governments etc. Secondly, why, for example, should a citizen who receives living income support in South-East Estonia tighten his belt and earn income in the Estonian state's budget so that it compensates for land tax exemptions in Tallinn? So there are a lot of problems with this bill. As the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the IRL have signed here, I have a suggestion for you: the night is still ahead of us before we start dealing with it in the Riigikogu tomorrow, talk to your coalition partners, talk to your group! Take this bill back, make it decent and then come back to the Riigikogu with it!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U113	I submit to the Riigikogu, my group. They can send me away if I have too much trouble with them, and I'm sure I can still get mad today for expressing my opinion directly. But the main problem is that the draft was drawn up without specialists. In some paragraphs one sentence states one sentence and the other. One paragraph doesn't understand what it's talking about, the sentences are incomplete and the repetitions are inside. That's not what you do! They don't put headlines like that either. Frankly, God knows what laws must be sought after if we want to know how and by what acts there is some kind of tax change. There must still be a specific law in the title, which is amended, and legal terms should be used. If there are no legal terms, it is an immediate signal that there are likely to be implementation problems, it is likely to be some propaganda or emotional consideration why a legal form is not sought. For us, all of this is a headache - in my area of administration is the tax administration and tax policy in general. It hurts! In the Riigikogu, weak texts have been produced before. I'm just sorry that this time there was no time to say anything at all. There was no chance! I would have liked to present both legal and budgetary analyses, that is what I asked for. I'm not gonna fight this idea against myself to the last chance. I say again: I am the one who relaxed this previous law and began to talk about the land tax-free minimum when this code came to the discussion last time. Then I actually presented it as an opportunity. It is now presented as a commitment. it is a very long step forward, and not necessarily for the better. This could have been done by means of a tax charge. But the analysis that will happen is, as you say, indeed left for the future. I guess I've been complaining about my personal concerns here, and it doesn't matter. The Riigikogu decides. Don't pay too much attention to that. I'd be happy to talk about it in a cafe somewhere. It doesn't have any legal meaning.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U114	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U115	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I fully understand your concern, your argument against the idea of this bill has been very convincing. I fully agree with you. I understand that you do not have the support of your party on this matter. I know there's a Reform Party Congress or General Assembly this summer. Haven't you planned on running for head of the Reform Party? Perhaps your position in the party would rise and you would be taken more seriously in the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U116	Let's talk about it! But first, tell me if you're running for chairman of the Centre Party in the fall. There was supposed to be a chairman's crisis in the Centre Party, we don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U117	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! The fact that local authorities are trying to impose a boat tax, a land tax, a sales tax, means that they obviously lack money. But we know that in a number of European countries, such as the Kingdom of Denmark, there is a double income tax: the state takes its progressive income tax and the local government takes its proportional income tax. Do you think such a system would be suitable for Estonia? Maybe that would solve these questions, or is something rotten in that Danish country?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U119	With regard to all these facts that you have put forward, I tend to have exactly the same views as the Prime Minister put forward here earlier. I do not want to tempt local governments to raise their own income tax; I do not want to experience the temptation of my party fellow local governments. It would be awful for me to see them do it. Unlike most other taxes, income tax has a very clear meaning for the economic environment and competitiveness. In Estonia, to develop tax competition between regions, I think it does not create wealth and prosperity anywhere. The increase in income tax is also actually not working well anywhere. We have everything quite well in terms of trying to collect taxes on consumption rather than on revenue. It is good for employment, it is good for growth. This position is also included in the recent Council's fiscal policy recommendations. Don't want that tax! I don't want it to rise. So I am in the same position as the Prime Minister has already expressed here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U120	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U121	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, We've both been selected from Järvamaa and Viljandi County. When we were with you in the pre-election debates, you left the impression of a man with an honest and straight back to the opponents as well as to a very large number of voters, and you have given this impression here today. Thank you very much. You have more information than representatives of opposition parties and members of the Riigikogu. Suddenly it is hoped that such people will also be in the Group of the IRL and Reform Party and that the draft will not find a positive reception among the members of the Riigikogu, and the majority will vote against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U122	Don't get me doing anything here to please you. On the contrary, I would like you not to like me to have a different political orientation. I'd be very ashamed if I turned out to be on the left. As regards the votes of the IRL or my own party representatives, I hope that they will act unanimously. I've been talking a little bit longer here because they were doing the wrong thing. They did not allow the draft to be removed, they did not wait for the analyses and they did not agree with the minister responsible on how everything would work from a budgetary point of view. I understand perfectly well that the confrontation of individual issues, the blocking of individual matters, is going to cost itself a lot of pain. So I also said in the government: I accept it because it is supported by many people with whom I want to cooperate. I really want to work with these people and, forgive me, like them more than you do.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U123	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U124	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I have another question. If income tax is reduced by 1% and less money is received by the state, it is a good idea, but if a person has bought himself a dwelling land, built it on a house, and spends every year, both in summer and winter, either pushing snow or mowing the lawn, then abolishing this tax and supporting people is a bad idea. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U125	As far as I am concerned, you have signed this amendment nicely and supported this principle, which I briefly touched upon here, that income tax is very clearly a question of the competitiveness of the economic environment. Income tax and labour taxation at all, but in fact capital taxation is what determines the competitiveness of countries. If you want, I can get you an OECD tax survey, which is generally the status of a Bible that doesn't exist any better than that. In this study, the land tax is considered to be a tax neutral from an economic point of view. The worst tax is considered to be corporate tax, which we are fortunately well limited, followed by social and income tax on labour. VAT and land or real estate tax are considered to be quite safe depending on where something applies. I very much agree with that. It is already a three-year-old study, and I can see that the European Union and the European countries in general really do base their reforms on it. Taxes must be collected somewhere and collected where they are less painful. It is not really about the cost of the state budget; it is about the principles of taxation. A reduction of 1% in income tax is certainly an important step out of the budget, the disappearance of the tax on homeland is a smaller exit, but in principle, as I said, it deserves a proper draft, a proper analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U126	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U127	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand that logic. Once bought, after taxed, and then in 40 years, you'll pay for it again. In Tallinn first in 67 years, in Viimsi parish with 40, if you follow this logic. But it doesn't make any sense. I mean, that goes for every tax. I'm here to talk about this thing that's left unearned in any way, we haven't paid enough attention to it. In fact, Bill No 51, the law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax, is fantasticly novel. I would say that it is modern, it is, in a sense, a catalyst for progress, and specifically in the field of Estonian language. You see, I am not Estonian, I may sometimes be confused with words, but this explanatory statement was definitely written by Estonians, and this is the first thing I see in my life, even though I have been in the Riigikogu for seven years. In the explanatory note, the word 'punt' was supposed to be 'pointed', right, but it is 'punted'. There is also such a new formula that the'starters are planning to enforce the law'. Honestly, I went and asked the Estonians if there was such a word. For a few words, I looked at the S.H.I.E.L.D. too. All right. Inventing new words is sometimes the case. But how do you understand such a sentence: "The inhabitants of the natives have just been struck"? To whom are the residents? And how did they get hit in that twist? Modernism also occurs in the way modal verbs are used. Exploring it is such a fine job as checking the sixth-grade notebooks in the Estonian language class of the Russian school. But for example, this sentence: 'On the other hand, statistics show that having a home is also the most economically efficient way of life. "Where's the "be" in the corresponding twist? Colleagues, some sentences are even more surprising. Look, it's fair here that the bill doesn't introduce new terms. There are no new terms here. It's pure truth. But the way in which the grammar of the Estonian language is handled is new: 'The draft will lead to the abolition of land tax and the promotion of home ownership through a number of positive socio-economic effects. " Colleagues, in a sentence with a total of 14 words, there are three errors, three faulty forms! Who was talking about intelligence? Ah, the Prime Minister was talking about intelligence! Is it intelligent enough to come to the Riigikogu with this kind of thing, not me, but you? And another sentence. I think it should get into the encyclopedia. I will read it out, try to understand: 'The draft reduces the pressure on the social welfare system, the number of children in relation to the number of square metres of housing and the preservation of indigenous space. ' See, as a philologist of Estonian, I say to you: there is a verb here, a draft'reduces'. And this verb also applies to the following parts of the sentence. Next time you write the bill, look at this thing. 'The bill reduces the pressure. ' Agreed! I'm not even gonna find out what's going on here. But this verb also applies to the end of the sentence: the draft sort of reduces the preservation of indigenous space. How so? I would like to thank everyone who prepared this bill. I very intelligently think that the content of the draft is perfectly in line with the way it is drafted. One more thing, that is what I am addressing to our Madam President. In my opinion, the Riigikogu has certain technical rules. What do you say about 11 errors in a two-page text? But good luck with the bill. What do we philologists have to talk about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U128	Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U129	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U130	Some time ago, information came out on the mass media that the European Union was quite seriously discussing how to expand the tax opportunities of local governments in order to solve problems encountered during and after the crisis on the ground. How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U131	I myself have signed a letter like this where I can get away with it. But for me, it is not even decisive whether the municipality has a little more or a little less money, but a very strong link between the money and the local affairs. The most local thing is the land, the local thing isn't. This is not going to happen, it is not going to go away, as opposed to people and their revenues. Tax policy is certainly a logical thing if we get into its substance. This is also the result of the recommendations of the OECD and the IMF that have been given to us. On the other hand, it guarantees a stable income base, and this tax will always be received. Sounds raw, but that's the way it is, and that's why the tax has to be affordable. This could have been the most serious idea of this draft; it should have been stressed that the tax must be feasible, but not propose the total abolition of the tax. However, 1500 square metres is a large plot.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U132	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U133	I'm not familiar with this material. But in itself, I agree with the Prime Minister's statements that the role of local governments in budgets is very different and that their functions are also different, and that the link between democracy and the size of the budget and the local tax base is not decisive. I'm talking about the situation of our function and income distribution, the direction in which shifts work. I have always been critical of the restoration of the old income tax component. I think that we should rather give more money from the Equalisation Fund to the municipalities according to their established proportions. But we really do have different positions in the coalition and political parties too. I have heard completely conflicting opinions from the IRL and from ourselves, but it is clear that in a situation where we have two logical things to tax on the ground and people's income, one clearly weakens. It makes so much sense to collect the tax from there that I am very sorry if the bill goes through in this form, but it seems to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U134	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U135	Now, after my hammer hit, you can sign up for a speech in a free microphone. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U136	Ladies and gentlemen, In today's affairs, we should not forget the past either. In three weeks' time, on 14 June, we are saddened to recall another anniversary of the deportation of Estonians to Siberia from Estonia's recent past. Thousands of families were driven out of their homes and sent to a distant cold land. Half a century later, here in the Chamber of the Estonian Parliament, this appalling injustice by Joseph Stalin has been corrected. On 13 June 1991 the first version of the Property Reform Foundation Act was adopted. This law had extremely human content: the desire to give back housing and other possessions to those from whom it was taken away, or nationalized, in confused times. Unfortunately, this magnificent plan to remedy the injustice was a new and humiliating injustice, this time already for Estonians by Estonians themselves. On the day of June 20 years ago, only a few politicians could foresee the real face and consequences of ownership reform. It soon became clear that Estonians are much more greedy than the legislator could foresee. Under the leadership of one parliamentary party, the Fatherland, and during the Mart Laar government, the endless amendment of the law began, the revision of the law in such a way that the last piece of property here in Estonia could be returned to anyone. Each new legislative amendment significantly extended the circle of "ex-owners." To put it metaphorically, some distant relatives, friends and acquaintances of the grandchildren of the former owners were added to the circle of returnees. Often it was not possible to prove properly whether a particular house or land was ever nationalized by the Communists. Whole hordes of false owners emerged from us and abroad, who began to exorcise a house under false authority and eventually got it. It got so bad that houses were already returned to the dead. The fields of work of lawyers and real estate owners continued for more than 15 years. By working as a journalist at the time and reflecting the hideous course of ownership reform, I have seen with my own eyes the archival folders from which data on properties have been ripped out by pages in our central archive so that it is impossible to prove to whom a land or a house belonged. I have seen with my own eyes a number of fraudulent powers with temples of Estonian foreign embassies, which have never been officially, and which have been made in Tallinn by some temple company. I know of cases where a distant foreign Estonian has gone to visit his former father's house in Tallinn and has discovered with amazement that the property and the house together with the residents have been returned to another person, even though this operation has been carried out in his own name. Much of these events are recorded in the press, many are recorded in the book "Lost Home" published by the Association of Estonian Tenants, and many will certainly be reflected in the soon-to-be-emerging and now-to-be-created collection of "Created Lives." All of this has been, all of this has been happening, and all of this we have seen with our own eyes, we, as animals, have been driven out of our home by tenants. The families of the tenants living in the returned houses were in animal condition in the 1990s when the peak was reached: houses were returned with people. And to this day, dear friends, no rubles, no Estonian kroons or no euros have been paid to those 100,000 forced tenants who lost their homes. I will try to give another speech next Monday and the third one next week on the same subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U137	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U138	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you pretty simple things. For example, if someone wants a decent puppy, he'll bring two dogs together. He is not going to bring together a female monkey and a male bear for this purpose because it would be quite cumbersome and absolutely unspectible. If anyone wants to launch a missile into space, it doesn't make the cosmonauts jump on site, it builds a proper missile. Jumping on site is cumbersome and absolutely unperspective. If someone wanted to drive, they wouldn't have to build it out of two scooters, and it's much easier to just buy or rent a car. It's cumbersome and unspectible to drive motorrollers. Let's continue this row. There is an incomprehensible belief that the Estonian language needs to be studied, not in the Estonian language class, but somewhere next to it. A spaceman jumping next to a rocket, a monkey and a monkey instead of a maggot. In biology, mathematics, history, Estonian is taught and it is intended to say that it can improve the knowledge of the Estonian language. Unfortunately, that is not the case. It is not an effective and progressive method. The Estonian language, I will tell you a secret, needs to be studied in the Estonian language class. And there are plenty of opportunities for this in Russian school: at a basic school level of 1050 hours and, if you sum up with upper secondary school and electives, about 1800 hours. It seems to me that no one proposes that, for example, study mathematics in English or vice versa, study English in mathematics. No one is suggesting that physical culture can be dealt with in history class, after all, there is no such thing! What makes the situation with the Estonian language different? I think it's just stuck, no one in the Department of Education is doing that. That means we should deal with it. We need to find out, which is why the 1000 hours received during the nine years of primary school do not provide sufficient knowledge of Estonian language even at B1 level. Because the average level across Estonia is about 60% and these children go to the Estonian upper secondary school with 60%. In order to examine what the Ministry of Education is doing in this field, which it has done in the last 10 to 20 years in order for the Russians to still acquire Estonian in Estonia, I today initiate a support group for teaching Estonian as a foreign language. I hope that you will be actively involved in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-30_U139	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Court is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.39 p.m.
