ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Honourable Excellencys, guests, members of the government! We will begin the Monday session of the fourth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is usually possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. You don't want to hand over the drafts. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary of Estonia, the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, the Law relating to the transfer of the Courts' Accounting Centre to the area of government of the Ministry of Finance, the State Budget Act and the Act amending the Government of the Republic and other laws in connection with it, the Senior Committee on Finance; secondly, the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu. a Draft Act amending the Estonian Development Fund Act, initiated on 29 September, commission of the Economic Commission; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act, initiated on 29 September, the Economic Commission; fourthly, the Government of the Republic. a Draft law on the protection of ambient air and related amendments to other laws, initiated on 29 September, Committee on the Environment. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 30 September, Estonia presented its views on the Council of the European Union Directive on the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB), on the draft proposal for a Commission for European Union Affairs, and appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 13 October 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded Estonia's views on the European Parliament and Council Directive on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and on the right to report to the European Union Affairs Committee on the draft and has appointed the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 October 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 6 October, Estonia presented its views on the reform package of the European Union's common fisheries policy to the European Union Commission and appointed the Committee on the Environment and Rural Affairs to give an opinion on the position of the Government of the Republic and on the reform package of the fisheries policy. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 October 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 6 October, Estonia submitted its views on the draft regulation establishing a multiannual plan for the Baltic salmon stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks to the European Union Commission and appointed the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Rural Affairs to deliver an opinion on the position and regulation of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. There's 87 comms registered, no 14. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda. I shall vote on the agenda for the fourth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There have been 86 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U2	Ladies and gentlemen! We will continue to take the new President's oath. President Toomas Hendrik Ilves, when you take office, I ask you to take an oath before the Riigikogu to the people of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U3	By taking up the office of President of the Republic, I, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, make a solemn promise to defend the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Estonia without vanquishing, to use the power given to me fairly and impartially, and to faithfully perform my duties in behalf of all of our abilities and best understanding for the benefit of the Estonian people and the Republic. [[The anthem of the Republic of Estonia is sung.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U4	Dear President of the Republic Toomas Hendrik Ilves, I congratulate you on behalf of the Riigikogu and ask you to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U5	Respectable Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! It is a rare honour to address all of you for the second time when taking office as President of the Republic of Estonia. In front of the people, perhaps our own elected parliament. As one of all of us. This year we have celebrated what was born twenty years ago with dignity and Estonian restraint, perhaps even with little distrust. There are those who consider the release of our country and the people to be their own favor or a historical, force majeure or accidental miracle. In fact, though, we know that happiness favors those who dare to want and act. Nothing will happen in itself. Exactly five years ago, in the same hall, I set a goal for us to live in the twentieth year of restoring Estonia's freedom, as if the occupation had never been here, helping with the bitterness and fighting over the freedommaker's oreol, helping to distinguish between the losers and the winners of the changeover. That we act like a nation and a country like adults who look responsibly into tomorrow. I expressed the hope that every person in Estonia would feel dignified and valuable, that our country would be honest in the service of its people. Five years smarter today, I admit that these goals cannot be achieved in five years and perhaps not even ten years. However, I feel that we have largely moved in the right direction as a country, a nation and a society. Not sank back, but, in spite of everything, it has become more secure and better. Corruption is less frequent, the NGO is stronger and empty fighting is less frequent, also in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. We have almost got rid of our basic fear: Are we going to survive as a nation? With the help of internal religion and external anchor chains, NATO, the European Union and the euro, we have confirmed ourselves, our homes and families to our home port, a free Estonia. But we're not as rich and happy as we hoped at the beginning of our journey. However, I see no reason to give up or find a better berryland. Today we know that nowhere else will we be waiting for greener meadows or more troublesome countries. Our job is to do here in Estonia. We can do this if each of us fulfils our duty, puts Estonia's interests first and our personal interests aside. Ladies and gentlemen! Jakob Hurt formulated a long - term concern: our smallness and our ability to cope with it. This concern is not broken by any precise revelation or deed, but by the right attitude. How successful and prosperous, how long-lasting and sustainable can a country with only 1.3 million people living near as much as in Helsinki with its surrounding suburbs or in Copenhagen, the Danish capital? Today's city does not need diplomatic service or embassies; it does not need defence forces or border guards, health care systems or tax authorities, police or Supreme Court. The city does not send its troops to Afghanistan or supply them there, nor does it support the Olympic team. No city shall participate permanently in all sub-committees of the European Union in shaping common policies and budgets. Today's country, however, needs all this because it is the will of the citizens. We have made sure today that we can manage our country. But aside from the question, it is also important to find an answer to the question, how? How can Estonia cope as a state? Are we smart, innovative, and foresighted enough? One good example of intelligent state administration is our e-state, which, it is worth admitting, we have done exceptionally well. Here we have long overcome the gap between the 'new' and 'old' Member States of the European Union. However, that is not enough. A clear perception of our opportunities is a prerequisite for making Estonia bigger. This is the paradox of our statehood. By doing everything like the others, bigger and richer than us, we are determined to be smaller and weirder than they are. The question, therefore, is how to find the size in Estonia that would enable us to continue to develop and grow, equally with others, and at the same time better than many, just as we dream. This means that, starting with people-to-people relationships and ending with the attitude of the European debt crisis, we need to understand the inevitable limitations of our smallness and make wise choices within these limits. Good listeners! To make myself more understandable, I will start with the European Union and the euro. These were the objectives that we essentially addressed throughout the generation. Only... when we arrived at the school, the thunder clouds were already gathering in the sky of Europe. Today, an appallingly large part of Europe embodies what we are fortunate not. The irresponsible fiscal policy and its consequences, divided societies, the inability to grasp the inevitable that the current system of living cannot go on, a crisis of trust holding the public together in a broader sense. In this way, helping Greece may seem unfair, because we have done otherwise: we have worked together and really appreciated our abilities, not trying to amplify today's prosperity at the expense of tomorrow's opportunities. This attitude towards Greece makes sense. But above all, we have the responsibility to rise above emotions, to consider the consequences of all possible options and to make a rational decision. Let us recall the collapse of Lehman Brothers three autumns ago in the United States, an even more distant, even more overseas case. The frustrated Americans saw an unscrupulous investment bank and thought it would be absurd to save the bank. However, it was actually something far more cruel than the fate of one bank. The leverage that was transferred across the reasonable line was simply broken over this bank. There was no understanding of the chain reaction it would trigger, how the shock of the financial sector would become a global economic crisis. Only a year or a half later, we counted the victims of the economic crisis in Estonia with tens of thousands of unemployed people, a sharp recession and severe budget cuts in the public sector, which affected everyone: teachers, defence forces and rescue officers. In the case of Greece, or even a large part of Europe's economic collapse, Estonia has nothing to win, but a huge amount to lose. Reasonable and responsible is also helping others to help themselves. This has been understood by everyone, and not even by the euro area, the countries with a more powerful economy are not part of Estonia. Let us not forget that today's action by European countries, which may seem too gentle for some and too slow and too cheap for others, is actually an attempt to convince and also to force countries to make the necessary decisions for tomorrow. Even the President is not so unreasonable that he thinks that there is something pleasant about saving richer and wasteful countries as a poorer country. But by risking possible losses and threatening the price of chaos to the restored health of the Estonian economy, I am prepared to do so. We should not be cocky and therefore hope that Estonia's experience will be taken as an example in shaping the future budgetary and tax policy of the European Union. However, we have shown that our way of dealing with a similar crisis has produced results. It has been noticed, and we have become a little more influential as well. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the current state of the European economy is not the only topic of the day on which we seem to forget our real size. In the European Union, it seems fashionable to break down a common Europe. We are reflected in the predominantly monkeyed conceited conceited waters of populism that spread elsewhere. I recall that Estonia is far from suffering or losing in the European Union. We are still quite far from being a net contributor to the European Union budget. In 2012, one in six euros will come to the national budget of Estonia from the European Union. The construction of major and large-scale infrastructure for next year will cost 80% of the European Union. Figuratively speaking, every worker who races at the construction site of Estonia will receive a salary from Brussels from Monday to Thursday and only from Tallinn on Friday. There is no point in hogging or listening to the cry-song of the alleged compulsion of Brussels. Everything that comes from 'there', we have agreed ourselves, including savings bulbs and milk quotas. Estonia's European Union policy is not just a matter of the Estonian government, which others criticize afterwards as wise people. This much-talk gap between the elite and the rest often distinguishes between those who have to deal with these issues and those who should, too, but do not bother to do so at the right time and in the right place. To give an example: Estonia needs to assess the future budgetary perspective of the European Union as a whole and to demand from it what we have the right and reasonable expectation of a single European project. What matters now is whether this is reflected in an increase in direct payments to farmers, an increase in the cohesion fund's allocations or something else. However, Estonia must apply for fair treatment with its allies. If, as a relatively poorer country, we have gone to the aid of the richer, we also have the moral right to ask for greater, but actually more equal, subsidies from the common budget. In explaining our wishes, we need a social debate, which is shaped as a mandate for the government's budget negotiations. Good listeners! Your country is expensive, has said one of my dear predecessors. That continues to be the case. We need to distinguish what we can do, what we can do and what we are doing simply because the countries that are considerably bigger than us are doing something similar. Therefore, it is not always wise to measure the costs of Estonia in this or another area with the European Union average. We don't fit the standard of everyone else doing that. Among other things, there is a risk of embracing over time the most outdated and worst practices. We often have to spend more in some areas. Because there are few of us, because Estonia is small. On the other hand, it would be worthwhile to be more thrifty. Do we really have to follow a state-of-the-art military structure with separate air, naval and ground headquarters and career ladders? Does the current network of our foreign representations reflect our real needs, or is there a need for restructuring here? I believe the State Department's analysis will soon provide a response. And on the contrary, there are things where we are forced to spend more. If in a large country a couple of rescue helicopters who have temporarily fallen out of line are not concerned, then in a country like Estonia, these two helicopters mean all the rescue capabilities. Here, the figures for foolish savings can be expressed in the lives lost. We're already small, we can't afford stupid casualties. In other words, we now have to think boldly and innovatively with our heads when the correct answers are not put on the table from Brussels. We can no longer afford to copy one of the others to one. Let us remember that we have always been successful with original, clever and sometimes even unusual solutions. In terms of our roads, rail and energy connections, we are still the periphery, the periphery of Europe, and so investment in infrastructure is one of the most important goals. We should not go into the simplistic opposite of whether brains should be preferred or concrete. We need both. However, we certainly do not need a situation where the brains are poured into concrete, where life freezes, where every bold initiative hits the concrete wall of bureaucracy. We need to think very seriously about the quality of education and ask ourselves, " Do we behave responsibly with our children and, therefore, with our people if we still believe that there must be a gymnasium in all areas? ' A school with a small number of students gives only the same result under the conditions of the bounty system: children living outside cities receive less education than city children. And it's intolerablely unfair for children living in the countryside. In a year, we'll have the latest census data on the table. Let us use these figures as a guide to change course and make the right, often inevitable, decisions. And let's not use these figures as a malana in a political struggle where some gloat and others justify. We need to be bigger than ideological dogmas and beyond the conviction that solutions that have ever benefited will also apply in a different situation a few decades later. Ladies and gentlemen! Government and municipalities are only part of the foundation of our country, but only part of what needs to be strengthened. Long before I was elected to this office five years ago, I spoke with the same conviction that we needed to strengthen our society, our civil society. A strong society is the most effective defence against populism, while the best self-defense is in cases where society is hit by a crisis or disaster. Professor Elaine Scarey of Harvard University has compared the damage and casualties in Japan after the Fukushima earthquake and the hurricane that hit New Orleans in the United States. He concludes that with hundreds of unwritten rules of common life, the Japanese coped with the crisis much faster and more effectively than the fragmented and divided Americans in New Orleans. In both cases, it took the country quite a long time to react, but where the NGO worked, it was much better. The NGO, civil society, however we do not name this voluntary association collection, which operates together, is the backbone and connective tissue of our country. The one that keeps us independent. It protects us from the intrusiveness of state or local authority. We need a country to protect us, build roads, educate small and large ones, ensure an ageing age for the elderly and the treatment available to the sick. That's all we pay our taxes for. The passion of life, the feeling of shoulder, the joy of being together, we can find ourselves. This is where we don't need the country's guiding hand. We're gonna do something, we're gonna do it, we're gonna take into our own hands the welfare of our own street or district. The more passion this area of life contains, the better society works. The small, evil, and distrustful power have a tendency to make a big mess of themselves and get into people's daily lives. A brave and large country is satisfied with the activity of its people and does not grow. Society is a spontaneous procedure for voluntary cooperation between individuals. The state will help it, but it will not intervene where it has no business: in private life, in our free society choices. This is the basis for a successful, democratic and rule of law society. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important part of our country is a citizen, every resident who here earns his daily bread, here grows up or retires. As humans, we can be just as big as we want to be. Our smallness or size is very much the size of our own souls. Tolerance, courtesy and friendliness do not depend on the population. We've got this precious asset for free. And from that, believe me, our success or failure depends more than anything else. We have an increasing topic of talk about moving Estonians abroad. The primary motivation is to earn money there, but I doubt that this is the only and most important reason for everyone. I am very concerned when I read and hear that the reason for leaving and not returning is often perceived intolerance, recklessness and anger in Estonia. Recently, this conviction was confirmed by a scientific study that will soon be completed. I would, people said, but 'there', in other words, we in Estonia are rude and intolerant to others. When they are away, they have recognized that they do not need to be angry and evil and rude. It's still about us, our culture, our spiritual education, the lack of which is devastating, but it can also be disastrous. Good people of Estonia! There are just over a million people living in Estonia. Each of us knows someone who knows someone third, and then every one of us. We're all familiar with each other, about two "hi" away from each other. This smallness and closeness also means that we are connected. This is the enviable charm of smallness, because in this room, every person is enormously large and important. However, it also has a second half of its locality. The vulnerability of others and thus our own. We sometimes act as if we live in a large, anonymous country where no one is funny to meet more than once in our lives; where we can insult any person because he is a random person. In Estonia, no one is a random person. Everyone has something to do with it. Our paths will inevitably intersect, whether as colleagues, as subordinates and as superiors, as parents' meetings, as housemates or as ward mates. Once careless and evil, the poisonous word released will therefore live for a long time, poison our lives with timeless force, and thus weaken our society and our country. This is the place, dear listeners, where my optimism towards Estonia is not boundless. We can do miracles here, but if we beat our own people, how do we get up? If we are unable to discuss things without personalisation and inflection, there is no point in continuing the discussion on why people are leaving Estonia. Dear fellow roadmen! We're free. We live in a free country that is our own. From the beginning. We have the freedom to do what gives us joy and satisfaction. We have the right, and the right, to act in accordance with our conscience. We have the right to go and come in accordance with our own authority. We also have the opportunity to be away from home without being forced to make final choices, because open Estonia is our home, our center. We have full freedom to choose what we are. We can be free to be caring and kind because no one forbids it. We have the freedom to have a big heart. That's the freedom I promise to protect as president. Just as I promise to stand up for the rule of law, Estonia's security and our long-term interests; and I promise to resist populism that allows simple and quick solutions. I promise to stand up for the society and resist attempts to reduce citizens' freedoms. I promise to stand up for the dignity of people and resist attempts to reduce, threaten or mock people, whether they are based on national or local authority, media or business. We all have the inalienable right here and the freedom to say with every act and sentence: yes, this is my home and yours, and this is the best place in the world for us. Thank you! Long live Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U6	Thank you, Mr President. The festive ceremony of the President of the Republic of Estonia has ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Riigikogu! Let's move on to the agenda, next thing you know, we're gonna have some questions. The first of the members of the Riigikogu is Deniss Borodichi, Lauri Laas, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luise, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Kalle Laaneti, Tarmo Tamme, Rainer Vakra, Priit Toobali and Mailis Repsi, presented on 9 June 2011 inquiry on the state of play of health care providers. Reply by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. As the representative of the speakers of the inquiry, I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, sent a letter of formal notice to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, stressing that certain parts of the Police and Border Guard Act do not comply with the constitutional principle of proportionality in view of the right of the health service provider to free self-realisation. The letter of formal notice of the Chancellor of Justice was given by health care providers who approached the Chancellor of Justice, who saw a number of problems in the implementation of the procedure for detecting drunkenness set out in the PPS. For example, the memo revealed that the main problems faced by healthcare providers were the obligation of the police to carry out any sampling of healthcare providers without prior administrative agreement, the potential risk to the health of the person suspected of drinking, the lack of sufficient competence to assess his/her medical fitness and the conflict with the principles of medical ethics. In the course of the procedure, a position was sought from different organisations and, according to the results of the analysis, the Chancellor of Justice proposed to bring these paragraphs of the PPS into line with the Constitution and to analyse the issue of the adequacy of the protection of the rights of minors, in cooperation with a specialist expert on the regulation of the detection of drugs and to clarify the safety of forced urine sampling in terms of the protection of fundamental rights and health of a person. Consequently, we have four questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U9	Thank you. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! I am pleased to respond to the 14 members of the Riigikogu's inquiry into the recognition of the state of drink. Let it be said, as an introduction and background, that the concept of a person's state of drink is certainly broader and does not matter only in traffic. A drinking condition can be a significant benefit of an accident. In addition to traffic offences, it may also be a constituent feature of other offences, such as carrying a weapon under the influence of alcohol or other intoxicating substances, drinking alcohol by a minor, etc. When alcoholic strength is determined in the blood, this is the most accurate way to determine the degree of drunkenness of the person. There are different reasons why blood alcohol levels are measured. The need to determine the degree of drunkenness of a motor vehicle driver may also be due to the fact that a person's health condition, such as hypoglycaemia, low blood sugar, neurological illness, diabetes, etc., may give the impression of being drunk. Blood alcohol content is an important instrument for legal assessment in case law. But now to specific questions. The first question concerned how this situation has arisen that the participation of a doctor in the sampling of blood or other body fluids by coercion is contrary to medical ethics. I would like to draw the attention of the respondents to the fact that the European Committee for the Prevention of Punishment, the CPT, to which they refer, supervises detention sites by conducting these interviews to assess the way in which detainees are treated. Detention sites include prisons, youth detention centres, police stations, migrant detention centres, psychiatric hospitals, nursing homes, etc. The Committee does not supervise all healthcare providers. Indeed, the identification of a state of drink is regulated by the Police and Border Guard Act, which, according to § 722 (1), constitutes a state of health arising from the use of alcohol, narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances or any other substance having a similar effect, manifesting externally perceived, disturbed or altered physical or psychological functions and reactions. The police shall initiate checks and checks on the state of drink in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Police and Border Guard Act. The police check the alcohol content of the person in the breath with the indicator instrument. If the indicator device is positive, the police will identify alcohol drinking with an evidenceal alcometer. At the beginning of the DUI, the police will explain to the person his rights. A person may be transferred to a health care provider or to a national expert body if the person does not agree with the results of the police identification or the person refuses to identify the drunk. According to § 726 (1) of the Police and Border Guard Act, the health care provider who has the right to take blood samples and the national expert body is obliged to take blood samples at the request of the police. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the same section, the police have the right to exercise direct coercion to the person obliged to carry out a blood test in order to ensure that the blood test is carried out for as long as is strictly necessary to achieve the objective. So taking a blood sample can only be forced by the police. In this context, it should be stressed that the person providing healthcare is not subject to compulsion, but that the health professional is obliged to take a blood sample. A health care professional is an order or tasker given by the police. For the purposes of the Health Services Organisation Act, the purpose of providing a blood sample as a health care service is to establish a diagnosis of a disease or to confirm a diagnosis on the basis or after which a patient's treatment plan is drawn up and the provision of a standard health care service is carried out. The provision of regular health care is also a debt-law relationship. Therefore, when taking a blood sample at the request of the police, the relationship between the doctor and the patient cannot be talked about within the meaning of the Law of Obligations Act, since the person from whom the blood sample is taken is not a patient within the meaning of the Law of Obligations Act and the purpose of blood tests is not to establish a diagnosis and to arrange further treatment. The use of the force to ensure that blood samples are taken should be considered important, as otherwise the sample may not be taken. As a result, the drinking condition could not be detected at all, since the person has not agreed to use either an evidenceal alcometer or a voluntary blood test. The imposition of direct coercion for carrying out blood tests is an extreme measure which, according to the current regulation, can only be used if the use of an evidenceal alcometer is not possible or if the person refuses to do so. Also, if a person voluntarily refuses to give blood samples. Blood sampling is an invasive procedure which may also have complications and is responsible for the safe conduct of the blood sampling by the healthcare professional. Therefore, we believe that a health care professional should not take a blood sample if he/she considers that the person's health or condition does not allow it to be carried out safely. We agree that the coercive taking of blood samples creates a conflict between health care providers and medical ethics. According to the Ministry, other solutions to regulate the detection of drunkenness could also be considered to address the situation, including equalising the refusal to give a sample with a positive result. In the second question, there was a reference to one meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Forensic Institute and the police. Question: Why were representatives of healthcare providers not involved? During 2007-2008, amendments to the Traffic Act and the Police Act were processed, in which the Police Act was supplemented by a chapter entitled "Identification of driving status'. That amendment to the Police Act entered into force on 1 July 2009. Before that, a finding of a state of drunkenness took place in accordance with a government regulation, and later there will be a chapter in the Police and Border Guard Act as a whole. The representatives of the hospitals also took part in the meeting you mentioned. The purpose of the meeting was to try to find a solution to the problems encountered in hospitals, especially in general hospitals, in identifying a person's drunk status, and to the police's concerns about a situation where hospitals have refused to identify a person's drunk. The reason for this refusal was the fact that the regulation in force at the time required the health care provider to establish the medical fitness to drink clinically. Interpretation of clinical findings was identified as a clinical problem. According to hospital representatives, the result of a clinical finding of a state of intoxication is not the basis for a conviction in the course of legal proceedings; it is only a blood sample. Health care providers made a number of appropriate proposals to amend the Police Act. Therefore, the argument that health care providers were not invited to the meeting cannot be accepted. Yes, you were. I would point out here that taking blood for analysis in order to establish a state of drink is not a health care service for its purpose and, as I said in reply to the previous question, there is no debt-law relationship between the doctor and the patient. The third question concerns the Health Board. The question is that the Health Board has stated as the issuer of licences that the health service provider should have a space that meets the conditions laid down by law. The answer to that is as follows. The collection of blood and urine samples for the purpose of determining the state of drink shall be governed by Government Regulation No 204 "Procedures for the sampling, storage, transmission for study, survey and the remuneration and reporting of the results of the study on blood and biological fluid'. According to the Regulation, blood samples may be taken in the reception room or in the procedural room of the health care provider or the national expert body or in a special room adapted for the collection of blood samples. The blood sample will be taken by a healthcare professional, but the urine sample will be provided by the person on his/her own. Additional facilities are not necessary to give a urine sample, as health care providers are set up in all departments, including the reception department. Question 4: How do you assess the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to appoint certain health care providers by the state who are subject to the obligation to take a sample under the law? " Of course, the fact that a state of drink is a transient phenomenon must be taken into account, and it is not possible to detect it afterwards after a certain period of time. It is therefore clear that the police must be able to identify a state of drunkenness as an urgent act, including the ability to identify a state of drunkenness by means of a blood test. It is therefore important for the police that the possibility of taking blood samples is guaranteed 24 hours a day and that it is not too far away to take blood samples. This fact does not allow us to limit ourselves to individual service providers across the Republic. Every healthcare professional and bioanalyst who works in a licensed health care establishment has the right to take blood. In hospitals, blood is usually taken by nurses or bioanalysts. The legislation does not provide for a separate list of procedures that one or the other health professional may carry out. This is left to the health care facility. Blood sampling is part of the basic training programme and daily activities of a healthcare professional and a bioanalyst, and therefore it is not appropriate to lay down procedures for blood sampling in some legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U11	Thank you very much. And now the question. Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U12	Dear Minister, There is, as we know, a saying that no one is going to get involved. But when I first listened to these questions and then the answers, I was given the impression that it was not the questioners' concern that people were intoxicated and, therefore, that some of them, for example, committed a crime or misdemeanour in traffic, were causing dangerous situations. Not like their problem, but maybe it's possible to create a hole somewhere. Perhaps, based on the problem of finding a state of drink, it is possible to escape punishment by delaying the whole process to someone who is not right. Did you get that impression when you read those questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U13	I'm trying to avoid subjective impressions when I'm preparing to answer questions. I will try to look into the substance of the question and answer it. The question was broadly whether health care providers would conflict with the medical ethics and whether what the Chancellor of Justice referred to would need to be implemented in any way. In conclusion, I believe in the rule of law, it is very clear and logical that we want to identify offenders as soon as possible. And if the detection method is to take a blood sample, then it has to be done. There are certainly no more options here, except for the possibility that if a person refuses to give a blood sample, it should be considered as a positive test, as provided for in the case of departure from a traffic accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U14	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U15	Thank you. Good minister! I have a question like this to go on. Here it was asked if the questioners were going to find holes in any way to justify a drunken ride. Do you think the Chancellor of Justice raised the matter for the same purpose? Did he look for holes to get drunk?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U16	I think you two can argue for a long time about what someone was thinking. I believe you understood from my answers that the position of our house is quite clear. The question is that the one who implements the coercive is the police, and the one who provides the health care is the hospital. Whether someone's looking for any other reason, you can argue with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U17	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U18	Next question. Members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Deniss Borodichi, Aadu Musta, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassilyev, Kadri Simson and Priit Toobali were asked about dental care on 14 June 2011. This is also for Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. I'm asking for a speech chair at Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 June, my group and I submitted an inquiry into the lack of access to dental care. As we all know and remember, the dental care allowance for adults was abolished on 1 January 2009. The survey on Health and Health Care 2010 showed that the main reason for not getting dental care is that the doctor's reception and treatment are too expensive. And the same study also found, of course, that, without the study, it is clear to everyone that the loss of dental benefits for adults has led to a significant decrease in the availability of dental care services as well as a deterioration in human health. We also point out that in Estonia, public dental care insurance is the smallest in the European Union countries, and in essence it is not for adults. All European countries compensate for this to a lesser or greater extent and are regulated elsewhere mainly through national or compulsory social security. In Estonia, we pay it out of our own pocket. Last March, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur said here in the Riigikogu, answering the same question, that we have a recession in the economy, and so big that all kinds of support schemes need to be changed. As a result, dental benefits were lost. Now we know that the Estonian economy is growing again, and although we have only returned to the January 2006 level, the Prime Minister has constantly emphasised here that we have the greatest economic growth again. That is why we think that at least this minimum dental allowance could now be restored. We have several questions for the Minister. First of all, if it were to be assessed ex post, on the basis of which specific assessments and studies it was concluded that the need for dental benefits for adult persons no longer existed or that the need for dental benefits had been significantly reduced? In southern Europe and Ireland, certain population groups are provided free of charge with children, unemployed and other fixed services. When will at least less well-insured groups in Estonia, such as long-term unemployed people and beneficiaries of income support, be paid for part of dental care? And, of course, when will adult dental care be restored? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U20	Thank you. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! I have spoken to you many times about this subject here at different times, but I am happy to talk again and again. The first question was what were the assessments and studies of the need for dental benefits. Indeed, as the heirs said very clearly, the recession was so great that difficult choices had to be made. When making these difficult choices, the aim was certainly to ensure the sustainability of the health system and to consider which decisions are least painful. It should be borne in mind that the so-called "open commitments' and the costs of contractual obligations are available in the case of sickness insurance benefits. And open commitments are benefits and other financial benefits for preferential medicines, as well as the European Union's medical costs, which means that they will have to be paid even if the amount allocated to them in the budget is not sufficient. All of this made it difficult to make these choices, but it was one way to keep the health insurance budget sustainable. One more thing is worth remembering: the health insurance fund continued to pay dental benefits to all insured persons who had used dental services in the last three years before 1 January 2009 but had not yet applied for dental benefits. However, the statistics of the Health Insurance Fund show that this possibility has not been actively used. Of course, this does not change the fact that on 1 January 2009 partial compensation for dental care costs for adults or working age ceased. Another question is when part of the dental care will be paid to vulnerable groups. You produce, for example, Southern Europe and Ireland, where these groups are children, unemployed and so on. It is worth remembering that the Health Insurance Fund also pays for dental care services for insured persons under 19 years of age under the Health Insurance Act in Estonia. Under the Pension Insurance Act, persons receiving a pension receive dental care allowance of 300 kroons. So those in the most difficult situation, children and the elderly, receive compensation, while the elderly are in need of help. Plus, of course, let's read it out then, there are also pregnant mothers, mothers of a child under one year of age and those who have had an increased need for dental care as a result of health care services. Where necessary, emergency medical care is provided to uninsured persons. If you look at other groups of the population, it is not excluded that people applying for income support, or people in need of other help, will receive help from the municipality. And the third question: when will the dental benefit be restored? I'd love to do it now! But it's not enough that I want to do it alone. This requires money, it requires a decision of the Health Insurance Board, and it also requires a decision of the Government of the Republic. What we have done, however, is that every autumn, people have been tried to ask people what their opinions are. Last year's survey says that 41% of those polled are willing to pay for dental care. In conclusion, I believe that we can argue here for quite a long time, but yes, both WHO and others, I have said this repeatedly, that this is one of the first subsidies that could be restored. At the same time, we have to consider that nurses, nurses and doctors are asking for more pay for their work, so that the Health Insurance Board has a long dispute ahead of it, which will restore first order, how quickly and how.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U22	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-lauul, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U23	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said you'd want to restore that compensation right away if there was money. But I ask: have you really said in budgetary disputes that you understand that we need to do this, we have to do it, it is essential for people to make these expenses? We know what a picture is when we look at people in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U24	Thank you for your question. Look, if we are going to discuss the budget more closely in the Health Insurance Board, it will be just ahead of us in the coming weeks, next week perhaps there was a Council meeting, as I remember, or even this week, I have no calendar ahead of me, then there will certainly be various issues. One of our promises to doctors and hospitals has been that, first of all, a price cut will be restored in difficult economic conditions. That's 6%. Well, we put 1% back this year, so it's 5%. Now we are faced with the fact that more needs to be put into care, too, or you will come next time with a question about when you intend to increase the amount of care. We have agreed, more or less, that we will increase the financing of care treatment much faster, increase 10%. More is needed because our population is ageing, to increase the number of 2-3% treatment cases. Let's put a 2-3% increase there. That's how these choices come. However, all this means that next year's health insurance budget will increase by more than EUR 50 million, which is a very large amount. That's a lot of money! And this money goes first and foremost to restore the price cut, to care, to increase the number of outpatients, so that people can get to the doctor faster. Of course, I'd like to make more choices for the people, but we can do as much as we can. Other sectors don't get that much money. Believe me, you'd also want teachers or rescuers to get paid. In health care, we can still go a little bit along the way that the hospital executives themselves decide where the shoe squeezes most. I believe this is very important. If there is more financial opportunities, you can also look at the new benefits or the old ones that you can talk about in dental care. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U25	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have been told a lot here that the Estonian state has had a difficult childhood and that it has been harassed by socialism and that we do not have any money or opportunity for one, two and three. But throughout Europe, pensioners and other adults, as well as children, are compensated for the necessary dental care for all. I want to ask you: how can Latvia and Lithuania cope with this problem, which is the same fate as we are? How do they deal with dental care for insured and uninsured adults?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U27	I believe that a good questioner, being a member of the Health Insurance Board himself, knows very well what opportunities we have. As far as Latvia and Lithuania or other European countries are concerned, we can compare the situation of different areas of life or whatever. We have just heard Mr President's speech, where he said that perhaps it is not always worth following the example of Europe. I will give you an example from a Bulgarian colleague who visited me last week. Bulgaria has a population of over 7 million, almost 8 million people. Their health costs are EUR 1.6 billion. With its 1.3 million population, Estonia will contribute 770-800 million euros to health care next year, twice as much, but our population will be five times smaller. In Bulgaria, the average salary for doctors is €400.500. Our doctors' average salary is how much? A good questioner knows that very well. These are the choices. We have tried to keep our health system as a whole strong, and we have made a great deal of efforts to ensure that hospitals have good conditions for receiving sick people, and those who receive sick people can do so with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U28	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U29	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have now dealt with these questions, and perhaps you can say that I cannot remember now when we lost this dental benefit. I think it was there in the so-called rebirth years of the country, and I think the health insurance fund was still more supportive of dental care. When was it taken? Have you been exposed to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U30	2003 to 2007. The compensation for dental care was 150 kroons for adults over 19 years of age and increased from 2007 to 300 kroons. What was before, I can't tell you by heart right now. However, if we look at the 300 kroons paid since 2007, this was once a year compensation. I think that this 300 kroons, too, often did not cover one outpatient visit in 2008, or that the hole must have been very small that this treatment was paid off. It was therefore partial compensation. But I repeat: when we made these choices, we were still guided by the logic that children and older people should be left covered and a workman should try to cope on his own.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U31	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Viktor Vassilyev wishes to speak as a representative of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U32	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The toothache is actually a terrible pain. If we're talking about the first compensation of 150 kroons for dental care and then 300 kroons, the money was meant to be discovered there. Both dentists and their patients gave this money, this sum, a very good name: open-mouth money. And that was the opening money. Since dental care cost a lot more than the cost of opening your mouth, people just gave up and didn't ask for it. Some dentists automatically wrote it down, some didn't write it down. It's actually nothing. One might think that if our dental concept was put in place in such a way that children up to 19 years of age are treated free of charge, then everyone, like teeth, should have healthy, repaired. A person enters adult life with the glow of all 32 whole teeth and thus lives out of retirement. If he reaches 65 years of age and is a pensioner, he will be compensated for the right amount of prostheses. Theoretically, it looks like it's right, but when it comes to prosthetics, that money gets some really simple piece of plastic. There's no prosthetic bygones for it, it costs thousands of euros. Can't get an implant for it or any other prosthetic or entanglement by modern methods. Yeah, you can really get a juniper-time piece of plastic that you keep in your mouth or spit out, that doesn't work. These prostheses are shown in television commercials when the prosthetic glue with Corega is advertised: glue grabs it so hard that it doesn't fall out of its mouth, and now I can chew everything. As far as the baby's teeth are fixed for the money of the Health Insurance Fund, yes, of course, those babies who were born in the late 1980s or the 1990s are really being fixed. It is also done for children who are now born. But, I'm sorry, the worst problem is for people my age. We middle-aged people who were treated with counseling technology and attitude, and the result is that according to GOST standards. We must try to restore our teeth and cure the consequences of the stomatology of the era at full cost. The price is that people can't heal their teeth, they don't go to the dentist. You can ask any pharmacist, what people very often ask at the pharmacy - they ask for toothache medicine. I think it's understandable that if your tooth hurts, you don't have to drip acid on your tooth, you have to go to a dentist. But if the pharmacist tells a person that yes, I'll give you a pain pill, but please, go to the dentist tomorrow, the person will say, "Maybe there's something different, give me a harder pill to make the toothache go away." A person doesn't go to a dentist because there's just no money. I do not know if anyone has tried to produce statistics and to count the teeth of the Estonian people according to the age groups of the population. I would argue that, at the age of 45 to 60, we have an average number of teeth in our mouths five times lower than the European average. That is how we laugh at this story without a tooth, when we are told that we want to be among the richest countries in Europe. Without teeth, as we are? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U33	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, the chairman of the speech, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There are six people left in the hall. Yes, a question of the same content has been repeatedly put to the Minister here, and there have also been questions in questioning both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Affairs. Unfortunately, today's answer does not suffer any criticism. And there must be a first case in which the minister leaves the hall before the hearing is over. That's weird! But that answer was really completely incomplete. When I asked why we could not compensate the underprivileged population for dental care and, for example, the long-term unemployed and beneficiaries of income support, the Minister spoke in his reply about children and pensioners and, for example, Bulgaria, as if Bulgaria were a model for us. It was also strange to hear that people thought that they could pay for dental care themselves and that it was as if there was nothing for that $300. I think that even a half of the seal's fee is good for a lot of people. So, on the one hand, we boast about our enormous economic growth, and with everything, we allocate money in the annual budget to shiny foreign embassies, though to increase defence costs by 1/5. We have money for fund contributions and debt guarantees, we have money for the acquisition of old helicopters and tanks, we put money in concrete and iron, but we don't want to bet on people, because we want to take away from where nothing is left. We're not cutting because we're so poor, we just don't care! When we took away this 300-kroon dental benefit, we got back to the list where we're the last in Europe. Except for all countries except us, dental care is compensated to a lesser or greater extent. I will take Slovenia, for example, with whom we are perfectly comparable. Slovenia makes a contribution to dental care; it is one of the biggest contributors at all. Finland and Germany, of course, have the most generous system. In Denmark, 60% of dental care costs are reimbursed, 80% in Great Britain, not to mention 80% in Luxembourg. In Norway and Italy, it is essentially free of charge. Indeed, this 19-euro or 300-kroon dental allowance would be small, but it would symbolize that the state wants to help. It would be even a check-up money, but in the course of the examination, dentists will detect dental diseases as well as general illnesses and related changes. So this is extremely, extremely important. We know that when your teeth are infected and broken, it can lead to serious and chronic diseases or even life - threatening complications. This 19 euro could be used to take a bus to Tartu or Tallinn or to a dentist in Pärnu. The situation of the people on Earth is, I stress, particularly insane. Before the election, I was asked if the teeth were part of the body. I asked for the same Ansip, but of course I didn't get an answer. Hannes Danilov said you need to brush your teeth, so you don't need a doctor. A study commissioned by the Health Insurance Fund four years ago revealed that one third of people cannot visit a dentist. That was four years ago, think about what happened in the meantime! Huge unemployment, the long-term unemployed, the situation has deteriorated so much. What would be the result of this study right now, we don't know. They don't tell us, they don't ask questions. But now we have 12.8% of the unemployed, and the period of long-term unemployment is increasing. So, yes, I have a feeling the Minister doesn't want to hear what we're saying. His arrogant answers are getting worse. The Minister of Social Affairs is not just up to his duties and we are embarrassed that the Minister of Social Affairs is not fighting for the people. It is he who should be with us in this Riigikogu who is fighting, arguing and trying to improve the situation, but we will get the opposite answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U35	Thank you. There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations, as well as this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U36	And now it is possible to speak in the free microphone round. Any requests? Please, a free microphone, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U37	Madam President! However, I cannot remain silent on the subject of teeth. Look at how our dentists work, what are the queues for paid dentists to have a good dentist, a pretty long line, it can be said that the people are so busy, so busy. But it's where the Finns go! Finns go there because a Finnish tourist comes to Estonia, he buys glasses here, he gets his teeth fixed, he loses his camera, it's insured, he lives at least two nights in a hotel, he goes to shopping centres, he buys a polite amount of beer, and then he goes back to Finland, where he gets paid for a hotel, a boat ticket, a lost camera, glasses and teeth. There you go! But our man is toothless! Yes, for members of the Riigikogu, I see few of them in this hall now, with me in total six, there are teeth in the mouth. Members of the Riigikogu can buy even double teeth, there is no problem. Apparently, a person with teeth doesn't understand the problem of a person without teeth. But, ladies and gentlemen, when you meet the voters, look them in the mouth sometime. Not that they look in your mouth and wait for the golden words, look what they have in their mouths. I'm afraid with a purely professional look, I can see the teeth that humans have. The group and I recently visited Ida-Virumaa. We met school principals there, kindergarten managers, and met people who are in a pretty good position in society. I listened to them talk, I looked at their facilities, and because of professional cretinism, I looked them in the mouth. That was ugly. No, "ugly" is the wrong word, it was sad, it was a hugely sad picture, it was a graveyard in the mouth. And you know, when people do things like this with their teeth, it's not just a beauty thing, teeth are necessary to chew food properly, when the tooth system doesn't work properly, it makes the whole digestive tract feel gastroenterological diseases. I mean, it's known to all medical personnel, it's the truth of the abscess. So these teeth aren't just nothing. And we are told here that there are other options, that you should contact the local government, ask them for some kind of support. You know, the same way you can go begging in front of the church on the street, you can ask the sponsor's rich Canadian uncle, but I'm afraid these rich Canadian uncles aren't giving anything to the Estonians anymore. A person does not need to beg for the health care he needs, which is provided to a greater or lesser extent throughout Europe throughout the educated world, but to the extent necessary, this need is covered. I am not talking about Mozambique or the Ivory Coast or Honduras, I do not know how things are organised there. But you and I want to live in Europe and we want a European quality of life. It also means that we should be able to read about our great achievements in the newspapers, that we should be able to watch our great development on television and, hearing all this, and seeing it, we must be able to smile brightly at it. Look at the way a person in Europe smiles, and he shows his teeth and smiles, and the American, by the way. Yeah, they're far away, let the American empty do what he wants, it doesn't concern us much. But how does an Estonian person smile? Close-mouthed, that's it. The City Government of Tallinn must be praised because in Tallinn, the unemployed teeth are treated with money from the city budget. They'll get the help they need. So the members of the Riigikogu and the unemployed are our teeth, and for all the rest of us, the minister and the government have a brilliant, shiny, empty smile! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-10_U38	Thank you. Do you still want to speak in a free microphone? There's no more calls. Thank you to all present, and I wish you a nice evening. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4.30 p.m.
