ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 10th working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U2	Due to the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu Indrek Raudse, Andres Jalak is a member of the Riigikogu. We now have the opportunity to hear Andres Jalak's oath. Please, Andres Jalak, take the oath of office in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any drafts and inquiries to be handed over? Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Eight members of the Riigikogu have an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. This concerns days of unpaid leave for police and border guards. The Police and Border Guard Board was merged into one agency on 1 January 2010. Since the creation of the integrated institution, this institution has been experiencing confusion both in the management of people and in the use of budgetary resources. In 2010, the Police and Border Guard Board staff had to take out six pay-free holidays due to the alleged lack of money to pay salaries. At the same time, at the end of the year, it became clear that there were still 30 million kroons unused in the payroll fund, and this money was transferred to the police and border guard budget in 2011 stating that at least then people would not have to be sent on unpaid leave. However, at least in the Prefecture of the North this year, there have already been four days of unpaid leave. As a result, we have four questions. The first question is how 30 million have been used by the Police and Border Guard Board. According to our knowledge, this year there are four days of unpaid leave in the Prefecture of the North. How many holidays have been in the structure of the Police and Border Guard Board this year? In 2012 the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board will increase by 4 million euros. Will the resources provided for in the 2012 state budget allow you to confirm that next year there will be no unpaid days of leave in the PPP structure? And the last question. The three agencies merged into a joint structural unit with a large number of redundancies. How many redundancy benefits have been paid this year at the Police and Border Guard Board and how many funds are planned to be mobilised in the 2012 budget of the PBGB?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U6	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the National Defence Commission s. a On 5 December the National Defence Committee will initiate a draft amendment to § 8 of the International Military Cooperation Act. The development of the draft is due to the need to provide Estonia with flexibility for the rapid deployment of military officers of the Defence Forces' staff and, if necessary, of staff officers to a new international military operation initiated and managed by NATO or the European Union. Estonian Defence Forces would participate in the work of the headquarters of international headquarters (headquarters), or military significance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U8	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft law and the Management Board decides to adopt it in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board of directors. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. I'm sorry! The government is also handing over the bill. Let's go back to the second point. Please, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U9	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. The first draft is the draft law amending the Penal Code and related laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in the proceedings by the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Secondly, a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and related amendments to other laws will be initiated. The Government of the Republic is represented by Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, in the Riigikogu when dealing with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U10	Thank you. Due to a technical breakdown or some kind of confusion, the government representative did not see a call request. In addition to the above, I have adopted two other drafts, i.e. I have adopted three draft laws, and the Board of the Riigikogu decides to adopt them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're done with the second point. Let's go to point three. To this end, the following members of the government will attend Question Time tomorrow, 7 December: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U11	83 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 18 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U12	We'll be on today's Tuesday agenda. First, the third reading of the draft law 104 on the protection of ambient air initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Any requests for negotiation? There's no call. The commission has proposed to put this draft law to a final vote and to adopt it. We are preparing for the vote. I am voting on draft law 104 on the protection of ambient air initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of related laws. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 104 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U13	The second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Reform Party's Group and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union's Group on the organisation of health services, the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Social Welfare Act. Any requests? There's no call. It is proposed by the commission that it be put to the final vote on the draft law and adopted. We are preparing for the vote. I am voting on the draft law on the organisation of health services, the Law on Employment Services and Benefits and the amendment of the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union 128. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the population voted in favour of the draft law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 128 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U14	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act amending § 5 of the VAT Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to present a speech to Mr Erki Noole, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu initiated an amendment to § 5 of the VAT Act in the draft law. a on 14 November 2005. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu took this draft into Riigikogu proceedings. 15 November 2004 and appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs to deal with the draft. Riigikogu on 22 November. It was decided at the meeting to close the first reading of the draft and to send it to the second reading. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft was set in s. a 23 November at 4 p.m. No amendments to the draft were received and the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not consider it necessary to table its amendments. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading on 6 December and, when the second reading is closed, the Commission proposes to put the draft on the plenary agenda for the third reading on 7 December. a. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U16	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Erki Arrow! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U17	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U18	Honourable Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. That was some time ago, on 23 November at 6 p.m., when we expected the amendments to this draft from our committee. But what was not, these were amendments to this draft. Secondly, we looked forward to the position of the Government of the Republic on the further processing of this draft. The Government of the Republic sent us a letter stating that they unanimously support the processing of this draft in the Riigikogu. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we had no choice but to take decisions on the further processing of this draft on 24 November, alongside other important points. We decided to propose that the draft be referred to second reading today. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading of the draft could also be concluded today. If that were to happen, the third reading could be on 7 December, i.e. tomorrow, in order to adopt the draft as a law. We also made one not very revolutionary amendment on this draft. It relates to the fact that, under the leadership of the linguistic editors, the section sign in the draft has been replaced by the word 'paragraph'. In other respects, the draft is the same as it was at first reading when we talked quite thoroughly about the operation of this draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U19	Thank you. A question has come to the rapporteur. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As we know, the law enforcement system is one whole. The judges are the highest, then the prosecutors come, there are statutory salary percentages, and then there should be police officers, or police officers. Did you discuss, in the light of this bill, that if we have very clearly defined judges' salaries, prosecutors' salaries, but the police, like they sometimes do, have no fixed percentage, let's say, of the prosecutor's salary, could it affect the motivation of criminal police officers and police officers at all to investigate crimes and influence the quality of the investigation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U21	Thank you, good questioner! I think that society as a whole should be a whole, not just a law enforcement system. What's to deny is that when we were dealing with the draft law amending the law on the prosecutor's office, we were still focusing on everything that was the work of this bill. In particular, the draft dealt with the amendment of the law on the prosecutor's office and, in this context, we did not discuss the matter with the police. But I admit that if this bill becomes a law and becomes effective on 1 January 2013, it could certainly motivate good criminal police officers, for example, who have the appropriate qualifications and educational baggage, to pursue a post in the future, such as that of the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U22	Thank you. No further questions for the honourable waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading of bill 126. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U23	The fifth item is the second reading of draft Act 123 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other Acts, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee for a chair as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft twice, on 21 November and 24 November. As with the previous draft, no amendments were received within the deadline. Consequently, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the second reading of 123 on 6 December, today, to propose to the assembly to stop the second reading of 123 and, if the second reading of the draft is completed, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading of the Riigikogu on 8 December 2011 and to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft be adopted as 123 laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U25	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalle Laane. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of bill 123. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U26	The next item is the second reading of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Act, the Rescue Services Act and the Act amending other laws as a result of the reorganisation of institutions. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Pomerants.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U27	Good morning, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you bill No 116 and this draft has, I dare say, been dealt with thoroughly in the Commission and working group. We prepared it for a second reading at our sittings on the 21st, 22nd and 24th of last month and lastly yesterday. We have received a series of amendments, and the Commission itself has made them. I will now introduce these amendments. The first amendment concerns the title of this draft law. 'Language ear' has spoken and found that every title of the law should contain the last word 'law', so not the law of restructuring, but the law of restructuring. This is the case before you with a new title: the law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, the Rescue Act and the Rescue Services Act, and the law amending other laws as a result of the reorganisation of institutions. The Committee on Legal Affairs took full account of this amendment. If we move on to the next amendment, Amendment 2, this concerns the amendment of § 4 (5) of the Act. The Commission proposes that the new text of paragraph 5 should look like this: 'The structure of the police and information security organisation and the composition of the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board are information intended for internal use within the meaning of the Public Information Act. ' What has changed? The word 'office' has disappeared from behind the criminal police, because at the level of the law the structure of the criminal police does not need to be formulated with such precision. The Commission supported this proposal. The next amendment is part of the block, which was the most discussed. This applies to the recruitment of civil servants to the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as to their background checks when they are not police and border guards, for which we take background checks for granted. When it comes to figures, there are 1539 ordinary civil servants at the Police and Border Guard Board, for example, which does not mean that additional background checks should be required when all of them are appointed. In the course of several discussions and the search for wording, the Commission found that there were positions in the order of 400 and a little after, where this additional background check would be justified, others would be appointed as usual civil servants in Estonia. There is no reason to impose excessive restrictions on appointments. Who, then, could these officials be, who are primarily affected by the additional background check? First and foremost, people in the areas of citizenship and migration who are involved in document-gathering activities as well as in the monitoring of migration. Also persons carrying out human resources operations and persons in the Internal Audit, Internal Audit and Information Security Office. So we found those criteria that could serve as a basis for the post when an additional background check is carried out. The wording is such that it is a post where access to a database, the controller of which is the Ministry of the Interior or the Police and Border Guard Board, is necessary for the performance of their duties, or where the information provided for in subsections 51 and 52 of § 35 (1) of the Public Information Act is dealt with (they relate to information on methods and tactics of police action or the amount of police armaments). And the third criterion is that it is the processing of sensitive personal data of police and border guards officials. It's not about every single one of us. The next amendment concerns the Penal Register Act and stems from this same point. This is simply a clarification of the law. The fourth amendment provides for a staff member or a wife who establishes an establishment plan where an additional background check is necessary. It will be in law that the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, by his decree, establishes those posts where background checks are required. There is some analogy when it comes to entering rescue services, but here we found in the Commission that this need is primarily related to the deminers, as well as to positions where data collections are concerned. So not all officials working in rescue facilities need additional background checks. The sixth amendment concerns the basis for the processing of personal data. If, according to the text of the current Act, personal data can also be processed on the basis of a regulation, this should not be the case. From now on, the police have the right to process personal data and to transmit them to a foreign country in order to comply with the law, the foreign treaty or the legal act directly applicable to the European Union, rather than under the regulation. If we move forward, the following amendments will relate to surveillance activities. But, as we know, we have just completed the second reading of draft 123 and with this draft we are postponing the provisions on surveillance activities for one year. Therefore, the initial amendments made by the initiator of the law do not need to be dealt with and are excluded from this draft. The Commission, of course, took this fully into account. We now come to the amendments tabled by Mr Mati Raidma. He was very fruitful and made both editorial and substantive suggestions. Unfortunately, not all of his proposals were taken into account, but part of them. With the eighth amendment, he wanted to replace the word'rescue authority' with 'Rescue Board'. The reason was that, according to the draft law, it is not intended to involve volunteers in the work of the Alert Centre, as is the case with police work. During the debate, however, we came to the understanding that we should not rule this out, which does not mean that 112 or 110 will be accepted by volunteers. However, several telephones are also involved in the Alert Centre and therefore this possibility should not be ruled out at the level of the law. So we did not support Mati Raidma's amendment. The following amendment is analogous and the Commission also did not consider it reasonable to support it. We also had a rather passionate debate on the tenth amendment. The proposal relates to what is actually happening at the PSAP when an emergency call to 112 is received by the person handling the call, to whom he direct orders and in which case he will pass the order on to another authority. Above all, it was a question taken from the perspective of the Police and Border Guard Board that who would actually send out a patrol if there was a need to react. We have reached a common understanding that the message will be sent to the Police and Border Guard Board, who will send out a patrol, it is not a direct communication from the Alert Centre. With regard to Amendment 11, the discussion went on to examine the nature of the notification to be sent to the Police and Border Guard Board. We have come to the understanding that it should not be very concrete, that it does not necessarily have to be an alert or an exit message, it may be any message that is appropriate to send. Amendment 12 concerns the appointment of the Head of the Rescue Centre. According to the bill, it would be the Minister of the Interior and Mati Raidma did not understand what such ambition was. However, the Commission considered that, in the case of both the prefects and the rescue centre managers, despite the fact that there will be one legal entity in the new situation, these are still positions where appointment by the Minister is appropriate. After all, they are still the people who are asked if one or another thing has happened in a quarter of Estonia's territory and it is necessary to react to the event. That is why we did not support Mati Raidma's proposal. This appointment also concerns the Director of the Rescue College. We then discussed the competence for the organisation of the service, whether all were rescue workers and whether the rescue worker was a rescue officer. That is not the case, and that is why you have made the corresponding changes so that everything is correct in accordance with the Rescue Services Act. We discussed the competence to exercise disciplinary authority. Amendment 16 states that, in addition to the head of the Rescue Agency, the Minister of the Interior has the right to take disciplinary action and to impose a penalty. The question arose as to whether this was necessary. Of course, the first initiative must first be the head of the institution, but it should not exclude exceptional cases where the Minister of the Interior also needs to intervene. From there we came to the next question concerning the wording of the title of Chapter 5. So far, it was an incentive clause, but since the previous amendment that we had discussed in this regard concerned the imposition of a disciplinary penalty, we considered it appropriate to reword the title of the chapter. The amended title is 'Suppression and disciplinary action'. Although disciplinary sanctions may also have an incentive effect, we are correct in matters. We supported this Mati Raidma proposal. The next debate was on the proposals of the National Defence Committee. We discussed above all what must be worn by an auxiliary police officer when he gives a stop signal to the driver of a vehicle or off-road vehicle. The suggestion was that in that case he should wear a uniform. At present, there are two situations in which wearing uniforms is mandatory: one is where an assistant police officer carries a professional weapon in the performance of his duties, and the other is when he acts independently. In other cases, he must be wearing a safety jacket with the letter "Help Officer" and the badge of an auxiliary police officer in his chest. The Commission did not consider it possible to provide for such a flat format from 2012 as it would also entail costs. We therefore did not support the amendments proposed by the Committee on National Defence. We also changed the law on alcohol and the law on tea, all those laws where we should get in the house once and for all, so that everyone could understand the same thing. In the case of tea law, we were also dealing with just one of the fingers in the current version, namely the words 'local government' were left out of it. Amendment 32 was on the amendment of the President of the Republic's rights of office. The question was who, after the end of the President's term of office, will guard the President so that there is no double understanding here. Ladies and gentlemen, today and the future! The law now states unambiguously and clearly that in any case the President is protected by the Police and Border Guard Board. And finally, the law enters into force. This Act would enter into force on 1 January 2012 and the part relating to the Alert Centre in 2014. Now one might ask, is the time between the entry into force of the law and the adoption of the law not too short? This is not a new rate of VAT, where the whole country would have to make some kind of rapid restructuring over a few days. These are internal reorganisations that have been prepared both in the rescue institutions and in the Police and Border Guard Board, and therefore the entry into force of the Act has been adequately determined on 1 January 2012. If we finish second reading today, there should be a third reading of the draft on Thursday, and the President will also have time to react to give his opinion on the enforcement of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U28	Thank you very much. Question from Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We heard quite a bit about all the discussions you had in the committee on clothing and everything, but maybe we could come back to the idea. It's causing a lot of confusion, at least from our internal security point of view, it's a rather difficult period. Could you explain what, in addition to saving money or anything else, is really the reason for this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U30	Thank you for your question. First of all, a small remark concerning the description of the Commission's work. The purpose of the Commission's rapporteur should be to make it clear to both those in this Chamber and those outside what was really meant by making one or the other shearing. But if you answer your direct question, the purpose of the specific draft was to complete the changes that the Riigikogu has already introduced or provided for by the law on police and border guards. The aim is to remind you of the presentation by the Minister for the Interior at first reading, to ensure the uniform development of the prefectures and rescue centres, to release the prefects and the managers of the rescue centres from administrative management issues, so that they can deal even more substantially with ensuring the legal order in the region, and to create common bodies to provide a more uniform, high-quality and faster service in a situation where no money ship is coming from anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U31	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Marko! Yesterday, when we discussed this matter in the Legal Affairs Committee, it slipped off your lips that you had heard some kind of identification or a summary of Ernst and Young, as you say, Ernst & Young's audit or study, whatever it was. Could you say in a few words how much this has to do with completing this same reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U33	Thanks! I have not seen with my own eyes any final conclusions of the audit, because they are presented first to the parties involved. We had an issue at first reading that, in what sense was it that came up with such a law, if any analyses were to be carried out, the results of the analysis should be awaited. My question to the officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in particular Deputy Secretary-General Erkki Koort and Ruth Koolt, was this: did the audit carried out give any answers or opinions regarding the completion of structural changes, i.e. becoming a joint legal entity? Their response was that it did not contain such proposals or opinions, but, as it should be, a series of proposals for a smoother and more reasonable organisation of the work between the Ministry and the Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U34	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U35	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to come to that common emergency number. I don't know what your experience is, but it can generally be said that there is not much to be boasted of here, either in terms of the receipt of these numbers, the rapid response and, from time to time, the adequacy of these numbers. At our meetings, it has been mentioned that maybe in the new system it will work better. Was there any further discussion in the Commission? Does this mean new technical solutions, or does it mean new manning? What does that really mean? Because the fact that you're calling the emergency number of the police and you're being put on standby, and for quite a while, unfortunately, this is not a one-off case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U36	Thanks! First of all, the change does not bring more police and rescue resources, or as a result of the change, there will be no more patrols on the streets or more rescue commandos. You can still send out what you have. However, the change should be positive in the sense that people have a single emergency number to turn to, 112 instead of the current 110 and 112. That's one. Secondly, by 1 November 2014, real restructuring will be carried out, and both today's 110 receivers and 112 receivers in the PSAPs will work in a common workspace, which should in itself reduce all kinds of communication disruptions and issues. All these officials should benefit from this so-called "cooperation" and, of course, from technical solutions. The first step is to make such a change in the eastern region. A new police building is being built in Jõhvi, and there are already planned common emergency rooms, police officers and people from the Emergency Response Centre will be working together. What is more significant: the Väike-Maarja Emergency School is already training professional mentors, but I was probably not named now according to new curricula, which should help them manage their work as well as possible in the new situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U37	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! We discussed amendments yesterday in the Commission. One amendment by the Ministry was made specifically to allow the re-establishment of the Central Criminal Police. At the same time, we have read in Postimees that border guards do not think best about a huge joint institution. Don't you suddenly think that this great centralization will end with us two years or a year from now discussing how to restore and maintain the identity of the units within this great organization or restore the decision-making of the division leaders?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U39	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U40	Thank you. The very short answer is, I don't. It is important to contribute to ensuring that the organisation's culture takes into account the common history of both police and border guards. It is very important that, within this large organisation, there are both parties, as we know, more than we bring more citizenship and migration officials to reach a level of work so that each other's knowledge and the 'people as a resource' of having a bad word of 'em' can benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Good Marko, I'm still teasing you a little bit. As we know, as of 1 January, there will be two rescue agencies, i.e. we have the Rescue and Alarm Centre. Emergency, let's say, they're formed mostly from former rescue officers. The PSAP has a Director General and two Deputy Directors-General to manage this organisation. What is your opinion as to whether the Rescue Board, which actually gives away some of its functions, also gives away one important administrative function, i.e. the administration of all real estate goes to Riigi Kinnisvara AS, is it appropriate to create another deputy director-general of the Rescue Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U42	Thanks! I think that, if there is a clear division of roles between sectors, it should certainly be beneficial. How can it be said that there is always a rhetorical question that rescue commanders are closed each year, on the one hand, and more positions are created in the canopy. That is the right to ask, but I think that the aim of this post must be to ensure the best possible result for security in the whole area, with the means of rescue under its responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U43	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! When the Minister of the Interior introduced this bill to us here in the remote and also in the Commission, he pointed out several times that he had gone to the head of the Tax and Customs Board to complete this reform. He argued several times that there was no difference between the authorities. At the same time, there are over 6,000 people in the Police and Border Guard Board. Do you actually believe that depriving prefects of the right to decide on staff matters is a practical move in the management of the organization?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U46	Thanks! First of all, a comparison with the Tax and Customs Board. At the time of the first reading, the debate was primarily about whether it was possible, whether it was compatible with the Constitution, etc. The Minister of the Interior then gave an example of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, which is one legal person that extends across the territory of Estonia, and a large organization, not as large as the Police and Border Guard Board, there is nothing to oppose, and the manager will be able to perform his management functions there. That shouldn't be a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U47	I lost track in the meantime, but I will be happy to answer the question to the other side if I can give my colleague a microphone. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U48	Still not. Maybe he can pass his question on to someone. We stick to the fact that everyone has two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U49	I'd love to answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U50	Maybe someone else is asking. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U51	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question comes from the experience of Tallinn Airport. The people there say that the attitude of police and border guards is quite different within the framework of this single institution, too. If the police understand very well that they are, above all, customer servicemen, that they have to talk to people and solve problems there, then it has been very difficult for border guards to clarify the role of customer service or communicator; they would only like to watch. What should actually be their role, whether it should be completely the same, or what is your opinion as a former minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U52	Thanks! I have also come across this issue, on the one hand, with airport expectations in this respect. The future must be such that all the officers of the Police and Border Guard Board working at the airport should make the most of their working time, which means that if there are no documentary checks, no arrivals or departures, and there is a need to deal with public order, they will do so. But I think it just wants people to get used to it and take time. There's no alternative. I've also talked about this with Prefect Elmar Vaher of the Northern Prefecture. It's clear to him, and that's where he's headed with his people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U53	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You are not only the chairman of the committee and the Commission's waitress, you are also the former Minister of the Interior. What do your gut feeling say about the bottlenecks that might arise in connection with this reform of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U55	Thanks! As far as the bill is concerned, I don't see any bottlenecks yet. These bottlenecks have been addressed here, I think, for a few years now. In my opinion, this depends not on the quality of the law at all, but on the daily functioning of people in this organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U56	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been talking to some police officers about a new bill. In this respect, I would like to ask where this bill started, from above or below.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U58	Where did the bill start? The draft started with the Ministry of the Interior, based on the provisions of the Police and Border Guard Act that as of 1 January 2012 the Riigikogu is one legal person, and that is why their role was to prepare the draft. In the meantime, I also remembered the other part of Neeme the Great. I think Kajar Lember wants to ask me that now. Ask it, I'll answer it, I know the answer now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U59	Thank you. I'm still giving the floor right now. Please, Kajar Lember, next question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U60	Thank you. Maybe the answer is really in advance. The question is that, although the prefectures are also very clearly separate entities in the new structural system, the prefects have in essence been deprived of their personnel policy decisions. (Phone ringing) As a long-term leader, how do you justify this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U61	Marko, do you have that phone?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U62	I don't have a phone at all, I don't even use a phone in my life.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U63	Got it. Did you hear that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U64	Yes, the question was clear to me even before it was presented, because a member of the Riigikogu should, of course, be able to read thoughts. If we are talking about real life, it is still the case that the funds are primarily at the Police and Border Guard Board on Pärnu highway, somewhere on the corner of the locker, and Raivo Küüt, Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, commands them. The appointment of new officials will depend anyway on the resource that the Agency as a whole has to put out. Each Prefect will therefore have the opportunity to make its own proposals. If it is appropriate, if the wallet so permits, these proposals will certainly also be accepted. For example, in the Prefecture of the East, you can become a police officer with great kindness at the moment. The problem is, there aren't a lot of volunteers at the door. As for disciplinary sanctions, or whether you have the other side, in addition to the carrot for a change, the whip, it is the same that it is the closest fighters of the Director General. If justified, the Director-General will certainly meet the Prefect and the corresponding penalty will be imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U65	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Kalle Laanet for a speech chair for negotiation!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, guests! When the chairman of the committee spoke about the proposals, I also have a proposal to hand over on behalf of the Centre Party Group. This is a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft and I will explain why. The Chairman of the Commission spoke of the beginning of the draft law that led to its initiation, that is, the decisions taken in 2009. Yes, I agree, in 2009, I was also in the process of making that decision. I think that the political culture should also include the recognition of mistakes, and I admit that in 2009 I took the easy way of resisting, even though my gut said it would not work like this, and I raised my hand in favour of the police prefectures disappearing from 1 January 2012 as separate institutions. I said after the first reading that since I then went the easy way of resisting, now I am not going, and I have also been able to convince my groupmates that this decision, which is being tried to enforce from 1 January 2012, is premature. Yes, I admit that after a few years we may be in a situation where there is only one institution in Estonia, the Police and Border Guard Board, not their regional structures. Why do I think that? I'm based on my own personal experience. I've been running prefectures of different sizes for ten years, starting with the county and ending with six counties, which I think is optimal in today's situation. Why is it optimal? Optimal in the sense that the Prefect can manage these people through the substructures that are located in these counties. Unfortunately, there is still a major mess between 1 January 2010 when the Police and Border Guard Board was united. It's because of a very basic thing. When Mr President-in-Office of the Commission said that this has a great deal to do with people, with how many people can work together and run the institution, I agree with him in the same way. On the other hand, I am of the opinion that this structure, which was confirmed at the time, does not support the idea that actually started. This idea was very simple: to reduce duplication of functions. The structure was built on the basis of the bangs. In fact, an additional level was created between the Ministry of the Interior and the various authorities in the old sense, which does not add anything to efficiency or to those people who work in counties, in villages as constables. If we decide today that we are going to make another change on this end, it will create even more confusion for those people who have to offer us a daily sense of security. The other side is that maybe in this package, where there are three different objectives, you could go along with some goals even under certain conditions, but it is the effect of the same so-called cluster bill that if you want to oppose something, you have to oppose the whole bill. Perhaps it would even be worth thinking about making a common 112 number, creating a common alert centre, but today we have to oppose it, unfortunately, because these three objectives are in a single draft. I get a feeling at times... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U67	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U68	I wonder at times whether it might be useful for anyone in Estonia that there is confusion in our internal security, internal security structures. I do not want to be malicious, but a simple and clear governance structure clearly determines responsibilities and gives a very clear opportunity to keep things under control. If we have such a mess today and there is even more confusion, as we know, it is very good to catch some fish in the muddy water. Do these fish deserve to be caught in this form? Do we want to have this mess? Let us think very deeply about this, especially the members of the Riigikogu on the left side of the hall, because the members on the right side are all in agreement on this. The most interesting thing is that when we talk about two political groups, the Social Democratic Group and the Centre Party Group, I think that there is a little higher level of knowledge of internal security or capacity than on the other side. And they, I dare say, as specialists who are members there, think that this change should not be made, but those who are not specialists think that it should be done. Is that right? Think! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U69	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U70	Thank you. Just in case, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U71	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U72	Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! In fact, at times it seemed to me that Kalle had read my speech on my desk, but we probably think the same way in this area. A lot has been said here that we are completing the same police reform that we started years ago, and that is the formal decision. That's not exactly the way it is, and it really doesn't even have to be shy when sometimes it's halfway there's been a little bit of misstepping so far. Take, for example, Bill 123, which we discussed just before. This draft, concerning the amendment of the criminal code, had already been adopted as a law in haste and had to take effect from 1 January. The Reform Party acknowledged that it had been adopted in haste and postponed the entry into force of the law by a year, so that it could do a substantial job, could make the law understandable to both people and workers who have to implement the law. I think this is going to be a good law, but to rush into lawmaking, especially when we no longer live in the 1990s, when the laws simply did not exist and had to be passed, there is no point. At second reading of draft 116, I would like to say that this is a law that is very rushed. He fell on our desk just as suddenly as this morning's snow on our highway. He came in November, even though such a law would come, we heard from this very remote area years ago. In fact, his proceedings could have started in the spring. After all, we also saw in the Commission how amendments came in, how some of the laws related to this law had been forgotten to change some points, names, description of bodies. It has been said here that this law will centralise all the regional structural units in our police and rescue area, say, the headquarters, and it will save on support services. I'd argue with that, too. If we look at the so-called'regulation package' accompanying this law, we will see that yes, the Director-General will be made accountable in the same way, and that is right, I agree with that, but at the same time these same issues will be delegated down again. Maybe ultimately we cannot talk about savings in support services, because the prefect, who is now dealing with a little bit of smaller things, must actually have the same apparatus. It seems that the police are like a test polygon, where it is good to test a variety of driving models. Perhaps so that there is no time for work to be done, so that the police would look like an organisation that is constantly working on self-repair and sometimes forgets to look at databases or simply from the Internet environment, Google, to whom the Estonian state grants residence permits, which we have seen here in a few days. I don't even have the balls to show the website to a child. That's a face looking back. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we heard and a good colleague, Marko, said today that Ernst & Young's management audit had been completed, but there were no questions about the need for this reform. Wouldn't it have been wiser to do the same audit before the very same one, which will certainly cost a lot of money, because both Ernst and Young want money and only then go to the next stage? From the subject of rushing, it also shows that the very necessary establishment of the Alert Center will also lead to an increase in management. I would like to stress once again that the PSAP is part of the current Rescue Board. Understandably, the institution needs leadership, no argument, there will be a director-general with two deputies. Rescue is getting smaller. At the same time, a new deputy director-general's seat will be made available to the Rescue Board. What area? Administrative. The question is what it manages when, for example, one of the major administrative areas of the Rescue Board, which is real estate, transfers to Riigi Kinnisvara AS. So the simplest possibilities are being sought, the issues on earth are not being resolved. We still don't know the answer to what happens to the rescue teams, how much remains, how much disappears. Everything's really messed up. Local people don't know anything about their future. But we know there's definitely a need for a deputy director-in-chief of the Rescue Board. It should be taken into account when we vote here that this reform concerns more than 8 000 civil servants, police and rescue officers and other officials. This indirectly affects the entire Estonian population, because these people are invited to serve our country's citizens in emergencies. More positive. Since this reform is being carried out because of the reform, I also saw it in the Committee on Legal Affairs. In the first session, one of the coalition partners, the Reform Party, also began to beat the drum to what it is, where we are in a hurry again. A little brainwashing probably at the next meeting of the Coalition Council brought them back to the ground that they couldn't be really independent. That's actually what communication is. They didn't ask much more questions, and the law went its own way. In any case, today I want to put my heart to the point that let us not hurry up with these reforms. We no longer have the 1990s, where at any cost we need to create something quickly, reform, reform, reform. It's working. We will really see how he can do better, how he works effectively, and then we will take the next step. Otherwise, it may seem that if someone comes to power, it is not because he is in power to exercise power wisely, but to abuse power. In any case, the Social Democratic Party Group is not supporting this bill today and is proposing to take time off, think things through and interrupt the second reading of this bill today. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U73	Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U74	Thank you to the President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, You can't quite agree with this situation. If everything worked out reasonably, yes, but not right now. The confusion between the border guard and the police has not been eliminated by now. A lawyer colleague, also a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, has referred to a possible breach of the Constitution in this draft law. However, the bill is being forced on this table, as if reforms were needed, but it seems to me that it is for the sake of the reforms themselves. Strangely enough, the police service is precisely what reform seems to be a good practice for politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, Constant reforms have been ravaged by the police by now. Read the papers! The waves of thefts in small private areas are unable to set limits on them. There is no reaction to family disputes, despite the fact that we are talking a lot about intimate violence here. So much for the work of the Eastern Prefecture that I can read a whole series of cases here where the police simply fail to respond to the challenges. I can give an example of a youth police officer who is unable to formalise the protocol correctly and asks for it to be returned by registered letter, promising to cancel the sentence. Probably to hide his incompetence in front of the superiors. You could give more and more examples, but these are all isolated cases, we should try to see the big picture. And that's not very good either. Management of different areas and information obtained in the same way concentrate on a narrow circle of people. What does such a tendency suggest? Does the state want to monitor, control and punish everyone up to the lowest level through a narrow circle of paternal officials? Or does this draft somehow contribute to the emergence of civil society, where centralisation and punishment are not the main ones, but to helping and raising each other through a well-organized and fully humane day-to-day relationship and life? What do we want? Are qualified rescuers to every commando and illiterate police patrols on the street, or do we want a large army of officials in offices behind computers? Police officers, rescuers, border guards, ordinary officials, our own neighbors, mothers and fathers, children have shown their dissatisfaction with this bill. But you see, their opinion is not taken into account. Not to be taken into account because the coalition, and I feel that especially the IRL, these reforms are urgently needed. I'm haunted by the question of why. Ask yourself why today. It would take a reform, though, to fix it. The principle is that if the bones are not wiped, the bone needs repairing. We are. But try to understand now: In order for the bones to be better wiped, it is necessary to repair the broom itself, not to create a handle. But just to create a stem repair bill might be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U75	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U76	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law currently under discussion is a draft of the official organisation of life, which concerns one of Estonia's largest agencies. The Police and Border Guard Board employs over 6,000 people in total, and the Rescue Board employs over 2,000 people. The purpose of this draft law is to identify the need for consolidation of support services and, in this context, the achievement of the economical effect of the process, the need to achieve the same quality and level of services as well as overall economics and savings. When we are talking about consolidating support services, I completely agree with that. A good example is the consolidation of rural government accounts, where the mayor was left as a cost manager, but the technical processes were centralised. The decision-making power remained with the rural elders, but the process achieved a 30% financial savings, which is a very good result. Why should independent rescue or police authorities prevent consolidation of support services? I still haven't figured it out. Support services for independent institutions can be perfectly consolidated; we have these examples. When we are talking about offering the same services, what is currently preventing the creation of the same service standards in four regional rescue centres or prefectures? Are independent prefects or regional rescue center leaders really the obstacles that prevent the provision of the same services? Absolutely not. The whole system operates under uniform laws and is subordinate to the directors of its agencies. When we talk about the economy of process and management, I would point out a very dangerous tendency. We are always talking about citizenship, citizens' initiative and citizen's responsibility, but I would like to highlight the official's initiative and the official's responsibility. If before there were independent prefects in every county, now they're in the region. As a result of this change, there is no independent prefect in the region either. How can we demand responsibility and initiative from an official unless we give him decision-making power? Human resources issues. Everyone in this hall has been in charge at one point, and we all know that the leader is responsible for the team's work. The right to make personnel decisions is the driver's most basic right if we want to achieve results. Currently, the right of personnel decisions of the authorities with 6,000 people and 2,000 people is shifted to the centre of Tallinn. A lot of rights are delegated back down to the county, but the personnel decisions are the ones that are left behind. There is a very large difference as to whether we are dealing with standard procedures at the Tax and Customs Board, for example, or with some other major agencies, or whether it is a force structure that urgently needs to respond to an emergency task. As a result, power structures and executive structures with extraordinary tasks have a management structure in which the lower-level commander has relatively high powers, as he must be responsible for what is happening in the region. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U77	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U78	Right now, we're taking away from the prefects their most basic opportunity to deal with the leadership of our team. This is precisely human resource management, including. The fact that financial management has not been in the prefectures or in the rescue centres, which makes no sense for them to be left to decide on staff, is, in my view, not an argument. When the minister introduced the bill here on the remote, I asked him, in a graphic form, if we wouldn't take away the teeth from the prefects by this decision. Just by showing that a driver deprived of decision-making is no longer essentially a leader. The minister said the Prefects don't need teeth. In fact, we very much expect both the prefects and the regional rescue centers to be teethed people to be fully responsible for the public service provided in their area. This is an opportunity we're taking away from them right now. We certainly do not support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U79	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. The first amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the lead committee proposes that full account be taken of. The second is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the lead committee proposes that full account be taken of. The third is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the lead committee proposes that full account be taken of. The fourth is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth is Mati Raidma's proposal; the lead committee proposes not to mention it. The ninth is Mati Raidma's proposal; the lead committee proposes not to mention it. The tenth is Mati Raidma, and the lead committee proposes not to mention it. 11. is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the commission proposes to take full account. The 12th is Mati Raidma, the proposal of the commission is to ignore it. 13. is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the commission proposes to take full account of it. The 14th is from Mati Raidma, the lead committee proposes to consider part of it. 15. is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the commission proposes to take full account. The 16th is Mati Raidma, the lead committee proposes not to take it into account. 17. is Mati Raidma, the lead committee proposes to take full account of. 18. is from the National Defence Committee; the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. 19. is from the National Defence Committee; the lead committee proposes to be disregarded. The 20th is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. 21. is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the commission proposes to take full account. The 22nd is from Mati Raidma, the lead committee proposes to take full account. 23. is from the National Defence Commission; the proposal of the Lead Commission is to take full account of it. 24. is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The 25th is Mati Raidma, the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The 26th is from Mati Raidma, the proposal of the commission is to take full account. 27. is Mati Raidma and the National Defence Committee; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The 28th is Mati Raidma, the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. 29. is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. 30 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. 31st is Mati Raidma, the proposal of the commission is to consider the substance. 32. is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The 33rd is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the lead committee proposes that full account be taken of. We have all examined 33 amendments. Two proposals have been submitted to the Board of the Riigikogu. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of Bill 116 as a result of the reorganisation of institutions under the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Act, the Rescue Services Act and other laws. The Social Democratic Party Group proposes to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of 116 be interrupted. We have to vote through the proposals and we are preparing for the voting procedure. Since the proposals are identical, I will put them to the vote at once. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of bill 116. Please take a stand and vote. There were 39 votes in favour, 52 members of the Riigikogu against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second reading of Bill 116 is complete. Let's get back to the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U80	On the seventh item, the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Commercial Shipping and the Law on Maritime Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Kalev Lillo, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, please be calm.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was before you last on 16 November with a bill 82, a bill to amend the Commercial Maritime Law and the Law to amend the Law on maritime safety. The deadline for submitting amendments was then s. However, no amendments were received by that deadline. This draft was discussed by the Commission at its meeting on 22 November. We did not have any questions, and we took three decisions, all of which were consensual. First, send the draft law amending the Commercial Seafaring Act and the Maritime Safety Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading on 6 December, second, to propose to the plenary that the second reading be stopped, and thirdly, if the second reading of bill 82 is terminated, to carry out the third reading of the draft on 13 December and to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U82	Thank you very much. You have a question. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U83	Thank you. Dear waitress, It is very important to know the effects of laws when changing laws. Are these amendments also known how many Estonian entrepreneurs will be affected by the implementation of this new law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U84	It is now known to affect four Estonian entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U85	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kalev Lillo. Any requests? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U86	We will continue with the next draft, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Development Fund Act, initiated by the Economic Commission. For a presentation, I would like to ask Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U87	Madame Chairwoman! Honourable Parliament! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 22 November and regretted that no amendments had been received on the draft. The Commission unanimously decided to send the draft to the plenary today for a second reading, proposed that the second reading be completed and, if it does so today, that the third reading be carried out on 13 December and adopted as a law. In view of the fact that the Commission itself initiated this draft and no amendments were received, the Commission did not open a substantive debate on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-06_U88	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Urmas Reinsalu. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission's proposal is to finish the second reading of bill 102. Second reading is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, So our agenda is over for today. I wish everyone a beautiful day! Closure of the sitting at 11.33 a.m.
