ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the sixth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, It's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching a draft law amending the law on employee involvement. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the Government of the Republic will submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the granting of a State guarantee to a loan between the European Investment Bank and the Foundation North-Estonian Regional Hospital. The Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U4	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with six colleagues from the Central Party Group, I will ask the Minister for Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, about unemployment insurance and sickness benefits. The Unemployment Insurance Act provides that the insured person is entitled to unemployment benefit and has at least 12 months of unemployment insurance during the 36 months preceding the date of registration. For a insured person who has used maternity leave, adoption leave or parental leave during this period, the 36-month period shall be extended by the time spent on leave if the same period of time is not covered by unemployment insurance data in the unemployment insurance database. The amount of unemployment benefit is calculated on the basis of all the fees paid by the employer for which unemployment insurance contributions have been paid. It therefore does not matter whether the employer pays the employee remuneration, holiday pay, bonus or additional cash benefits or benefits for the employee of the company. This situation leaves parents who have been on parental leave at a disadvantage and who have received a bounty or support from the employer during parental leave. As in the case of unemployment benefit, the amount of temporary incapacity benefit for the person who has returned from parental leave is calculated by means of a minimum monthly salary and a 30-divided number established by the Government of the Republic. This situation also puts the person who has returned from parental leave in a situation where the amount of the benefit does not take account of his actual salary but of the minimum wage laid down by the government. In relation to this, we have three questions for the Minister, to which we would like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U5	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! Me and seven other members of the Social Democratic Party have an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. Inevitably, at some point in time, a person's life course can come to the point of needing care and treatment. At the level of the Government of the Republic, it has been recognised that the separation of health and welfare systems in Estonia has led to a situation where it is difficult to meet the needs of people due to their health or social situation. In order to solve this problem, the development plan of the Estonian care network has been approved until 2015. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip said s. a On 11 May, in the Riigikogu Question Hour, the development plan for the care network has been completed and the figures tell us about it: the number of beds in care care treatment has increased very rapidly in Estonia, and the amount of resources spent on care treatment has increased very rapidly in recent years. He said: "I want to believe that the quality of our care is considerably better now than it was years ago. ' The assessment of the Estonian Patients' Association, drawn up on the basis of numerous complaints received by the Association, differs from the Prime Minister's assessment as from the day of the night, especially as regards the quality of services. Complaints show that what happened at Keila Hospital is not an isolated incident. Patients' interests are not always protected because there is no substantive and independent control over the quality of healthcare. Although the Agency has been entrusted with a supervisory function, it does not carry out substantive checks. In view of the above, the Social Democrats have seven questions for the Minister of Social Affairs to put an end to this disorder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U7	Thank you. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U8	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will submit a draft law amending the Advertising Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The draft law aims to introduce a total ban on advertising alcohol in television and radio programmes and as outdoor advertising. The aim of the draft is to reduce the impact of alcohol advertising on consumers, in particular on the values and attitudes of young people and children. Advertising aimed at the general public has a major impact on value formation. In terms of the amount of alcohol consumed, Estonia is at the forefront of Europe. Studies show that banning alcohol advertising can reduce alcohol consumption by nearly 30%. By banning alcohol advertising, we can contribute to healthier and safer lifestyles. At the same time, we reduce the possibility of young people getting caught up in their cogs because of alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U9	Thank you. Please, Mr Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U10	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party also have an important draft for the parliamentary procedure. The purpose of this draft is to exempt citizens from land tax. This law, which the IRL and the Reform Party have agreed to implement in the Coalition Agreement, should enter into force on 1 January 2013. Under this law, land tax will be abolished in the city, in the city within the municipality, in the village and in the village up to 1500 m2 and in other areas up to two hectares if, according to the residence data recorded in the population register, the taxpayer resides in a residential dwelling on that land. This is an important step towards valuing home ownership and reducing the cost of being homeowners. This bill has a financial impact of EUR 17 million. As we have also said in the explanatory memorandum, the financial implications of the draft are compensated by the state budget. The initiators of the draft act consider it appropriate that this draft law be dealt with without delay and adopted as a law by the end of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U11	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted four draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions initiated on 11 May and related amendments to other laws of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing a member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund' submitted on 11 May, whose commission is the Social Affairs Committee. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. Last week, members of the Riigikogu formed a Baltic German support group, youth support group and housing cooperative support group. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? This Wednesday, 18 May, we have a good opportunity to meet the President of the German Parliament, Dr Norbert Lammert, who will give a speech to the Riigikogu after the Wednesday session. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U12	Today's agenda is the response to two questions. We will start with the members of the Riigikogu Jüri Ratas, Lauri Laas, Viktor Vassilyev, Valeri Korb, Kalev Kallo, Kadri Samson, Inara Luigas and Mikhail Stalnukhin on 11 April in the s. a request for information on the compensation for the reduction of municipal revenue. I would like to ask my colleague, Inara Luigas, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U13	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Eight members of the Central Party Group and, in fact, the entire Central Party Group are concerned about the financial capacity of local authorities. We are concerned that the ongoing legislative changes will reduce the income base of local governments. We can read from the coalition agreement that the government union is planning to exempt landowners from land tax on the land under homeland in a densely populated area up to 1500 m2 and in a distributed area up to two hectares. However, such a reduction in the revenue base means that local authorities are increasingly being made too much, as their income base is being reduced but not reduced by the obligations imposed on them. Thus, the institution closest to the people, or local government, is neglected. In its decision of 16 March 2010, the Supreme Court found that there is uncertainty about the delimitation of national and local functions with regard to local governments. The judgment recognises that there is no constitutionality in the absence of legislative acts which would lay down which obligations imposed on local authorities by law are self-governing and which are state-owned. The costs of fulfilling public obligations, as we all know, must be covered by the state budget. It is also clear from the Court's decision that until now neither the tasks assigned to local authorities nor their financial cover are clear. That is why the Supreme Court ordered the Government of the Republic to draw up these laws in its judgment. This decision of the Supreme Court was made more than a year ago, but the government has not paid serious attention to the enforcement of this decision and has not done anything to increase the financial income of local governments. The problem has not been solved, which must be responsible for the quality of public services and their organisation. This increases confusion and uncertainty among citizens. As a result, we have three questions for the Auditor General. In this context, we ask how the Auditor General assesses the ability of the government to exercise its functions, insofar as the Auditor General considers that, in such a situation, the ability of the local government to comply with its obligations under the law is guaranteed and whether such delays are justified. Thank you. We're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U14	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. Auditor General Mihkel Oviir of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U15	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Eight members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry to me on 11 April, which, in the light of the Supreme Court's decision to do so, broadly deals with the income base and relations of local governments with the state. The authors of the inquiry have pointed out that there is no certainty about the municipality's income base and that there is no clarity about the tasks. Now I'm going to go on with questions. Question number one: How do you assess the capacity of government in this context? ' I will be brief about the context. Importantly, I mention the decision of the Supreme Court of March 2010, which accused the state that the functions of local governments have not been divided into national and self-governing functions. The judgment states that the State does not have a financing system that distinguishes the costs of other public tasks from those of the State budget. In addition, the new financing system must ensure that municipalities and cities have a sufficient income base to carry out their self-governing tasks. Secondly, I would like to recall the discussion of the partnership between the state and local governments in the Riigikogu on 23 September 2010. The partnership was seen as a key national issue. It was in many ways inspired by this judgment. Although several speakers pointed out the need to comply with the Supreme Court's ruling during the discussion, there was no discussion about the specific activities to achieve this. I would like to highlight the speech of the President of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu at the time, Mr Linde. He gave priority to making local governments stronger and thought that the tasks of local governments had changed in the Internet age. He stressed the need for a law that sets out the real tasks and objectives of local governments at the present time. At the same time, several speakers highlighted the need to achieve better cooperation between local authorities and to determine the minimum quality of services provided by local authorities. I am of the opinion that the purpose of the settlement is not to stand alone. The main positive impact of the solution would be to ensure that the same availability and quality of services are offered to Estonian people everywhere, at least according to a certain minimum standard. There is no doubt that it will not be possible to guarantee the same maximum level in the prosperous and developing rural areas of Northern Estonia and in the poor South-East Estonia, but we are talking about a certain minimum. The execution of the Supreme Court's decision is in the interest of all people, making the division of roles and responsibilities of the state and local government clear and transparent. The task assigned to the National Audit Office is to assess the functioning of the state and the fulfilment of its objectives at the general level. However, at this level, it must be concluded that although the state has formally begun to distinguish between individual national tasks (some of these exist in the state budget of this year), it is not a clear and understandable process for the National Audit Office or the local authorities, the details, principles, stages and deadlines of which would be known. It is still rather vague how the ultimate objective is to be achieved. I believe that both municipalities and the public should be significantly more involved in the debate on the tasks to be carried out by municipalities. The question is whether all municipalities should carry out the same tasks and how to make sure that there is enough money to do so. I believe that these issues should be much more enlightened by the Government of the Republic than has been the case so far. The second question: 'How much do you think that local authorities are guaranteed to fulfil the obligations imposed on them by law in such a situation? ' The National Audit Office has audited for five years the vast majority of the fields of activity in which local governments are bound by law. The auditors of the National Audit Office have also visited most of the municipalities and cities. What are the results? Unfortunately, no well-managed and functional area of activity has been found, where municipal errors and deficiencies would be negligible or formal. Many municipalities simply do not comply with the law. In particular, in order to comply with the law, a law or other regulation must be enforceable, it must be reasonable. Here you might ask, for example, whether the new basic school and upper secondary school law was sufficiently thought-out if it allowed for such confusion regarding the entry of first-class pupils into school, or recall the conflict between Tallinn and the Ministry of Social Affairs when the Minister's regulation amended the health standards of kindergartens. Third example: 60 indicators have to be entered in the road register for local roads, but no audited municipality has complied with this requirement. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications knows this, but nothing has been done to put the municipalities in order or to make the requirements more realistic. By the way, you must also know the law and wish and know how to comply with it. There is no science fiction that the auditors of the National Audit Office had to explain to a municipal official whose task it was to organise public procurements, where the public procurement register is located. This means that local governments need to establish appropriate working arrangements and constantly develop the skills and knowledge of professionals so that they are able to do so. If the municipality is still so small that the areas must be divided between three or four hired officials and each must be responsible for five things, for example, when should this official be able to train and supplement himself? The parish officials are in many places like exhausted Hunt Crime Eyes, who have nine jobs to hold. Yeah, it's about money. Without money, there really isn't a mission. Money is important, but money has not been the direct cause of errors and shortcomings found in local governments. What options would the execution of the Supreme Court's decision create for local governments? The actual enforcement of the Supreme Court's decision would mean clear relations with the state and the possibility of ending the demagogical dispute over the percentages of the income base. This would also allow, taking into account the list of additional tasks, to negotiate in substance the adequacy of the financing of the municipalities. Unfortunately, even local authorities themselves have not been able to produce analyses linking quality standards by service with the need for funding, which will be negotiated with the government. There have been plenty of criticisms about the government, but it has remained at an overall level. Collaboration has become difficult. For example, support for local roads, which the municipalities would like to receive as a percentage and in the future as an even greater percentage of excise duties on fuel, is an acute issue. At the same time, many municipalities have not been able to determine the levels of their rural municipalities in their daily work, which leaves the opportunity to explain how much money they really need to make. The poor cooperation is also characterised by the fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the local government associations, had already planned to assess the investment needs of local roads by the end of 2007. It hasn't been done. As far as public tasks are concerned, all these costs are covered by the state budget. This would allow municipalities to be influenced to improve the quality of public services. This system would also create wider possibilities for assessing the use of money. I do not think it is important for people that all cities and municipalities carry out exactly the same tasks themselves. Something can be done in cooperation, something can be bought in. Since local governments differ significantly in their assumptions, realistic decisions should be taken for the current fragmented set of local governments. The last question: "Do you believe that a delay in the execution of the judgment is justified and necessary in this case? ' It is clear that the execution of the fundamental and fundamental decision of the Supreme Court is a difficult task for the Government of the Republic, but especially for the Minister of Regional Affairs and the Minister of Finance. However, all the means of doing so are in the hands of the State since, in view of the economic situation of the State, it is necessary to determine the system of financing local governments and the amount of money involved in specific tasks, ending with the decision-making power of the State to classify one or more tasks as state or local. At the meeting of the Government Office in April 2010, it was decided that the ministries must assess in the legislation of their area of government what statutory tasks are essentially national tasks assigned to the municipality. According to the schedule decided in the Cabinet, the first results should have been implemented already at the time when the 2011 budget was drawn up. As a result, such tasks were found at the Ministry of Defence, Culture, Internal Affairs and Social Affairs. The National Audit Office is of the opinion that the result was incomplete; rather, it was the removal of some of the public functions of local governments. Firstly, the short time did not allow for an in-depth analysis. Secondly, the Ministry of the Interior's instructions did not expect this either. In addition, national tasks were determined with very different detail. The National Audit Office assumes that the further state tasks of local governments will continue to be identified. I believe that it will not be possible to distinguish the national tasks entrusted to cities and municipalities from the self-governing tasks unless all the tasks assigned to the municipalities are analysed in the legislation. The national obligation must be determined precisely; it cannot be regarded as one area as a whole, be it education or social, for example. The financing must be organised in such a way that it can be verified whether the State actually covers the costs of any obligation from the state budget. It is more difficult to design the system of financing self-governing tasks so that for each municipality, for example, the court can assess whether there is enough money. It is important to follow the principle that the quality of services should not be significantly lower than the average in Estonia due to lack of money. I do not think that the government's current steps have been sufficient. I doubt that the current resources of the Minister for Regional Affairs will allow a better analysis to be expected soon. So far, the aim is that each ministry itself cooperates directly with representatives of local governments. In the absence of a clear action plan, it is not known when the final objective will be achieved. However, time is ticking, and I am afraid that if we move forward at the current pace of the execution of the Supreme Court's decision, we will already see the new year's state budget being challenged by the Supreme Court. You don't have to go so far as to decide on the budget from this hall to the courtroom. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am very pleased that all of this will be discussed today at 4 p.m. in the Riigikogu Conference Hall, where a round table will be held on local governments at the initiative of the Riigikogu's local governments and regional policy support group. I wish success and progress towards concrete solutions, because the debate is fun, but real decisions and steps are needed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U16	Thank you very much, Mr. Auditor General. You have questions. The first question, please, Mr Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. performer! The last topic you were discussing today was the cases when the government placed a new task on some municipalities to provide one or another service, but did not finance it. Can we call this a breach of law? What is your position as a lawyer, has the government been directly breaking the law with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U18	If we now review the Supreme Court's decision in this situation, we will see that the Supreme Court has made it very clear that if local governments are given a clear public task, then their financial capacity must also be assessed and the money must be found to cover these additional tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U19	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said in your report that you have visited a lot of local governments and audited them, you have watched how they handle their duties. You said local authorities did not comply with the law. Here's my question. Do local authorities simply fail to fulfil their tasks at will, or is this due to a lack of money? Does it also apply to local governments that rural governments have an obligation to supervise local governments and the Government of the Republic has an obligation to monitor how local authorities handle the provision of services to citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U21	Thank you for your question. Maybe I'll take another step back. As you know, negotiations are constantly taking place, one place with the government and another place between local governments. One prerequisite for the entire budgetary process is to reach some kind of agreement. If we look at the progress of the process this year, we will see that the local governments have also not been accentuated that there is a decision of the Supreme Court and that the functions of the state and the functions of the local government should be allocated. The state should be required to understand how far these processes are in order to be able to assess in concrete terms the amount of work that the municipalities are facing in the performance of their duties. I must say that the municipality often chooses a comfortable position, saying that it simply does not have the means, that it is small, that it has few people and that it cannot perform these tasks at all. There's a lot of things you don't try to do. Living in a particular environment. By improving the control mechanisms, we will not achieve the objective that we want to achieve. We have municipalities, we have municipalities, we have municipal councils, we have municipal councils who should do so. We have a whole series of missions that must be carried out by county governments. I even stress that there should be a systematic teaching and training programme for municipalities. The National Audit Office has carried out a number of trainings on its own initiative for local government employees. The hall is always full, people come together and listen. We have often trained municipalities. The ministries often take money for it. It's important to work together here. In my opinion, the state has, to some extent, distanced itself from local governments and municipalities have also contributed to the creation of this distance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U22	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U23	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! This famous Supreme Court ruling has been interpreted very differently. This has also been explained very differently to the electorate or audience. How has the National Audit Office approached this in its explanations and training? The comprehensive school and upper secondary school law, which has been dealt with many times, provides for a number of new obligations for local governments, for example. Does this mean that it must be accompanied by new financial allocations in the next budgets, for example in relation to the new curriculum, or will it help if we analyse and say that local governments have basically enough money? There has usually been this approach that if some municipalities have money, the division between tasks is no longer important.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U24	Thank you for this question. First of all, different interpretations of the Supreme Court ruling. On 5 April last year, the National Audit Office held a meeting to which we requested Tim Kolgi, adviser to the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court, who commented on this Supreme Court ruling. What you have now pointed out is complicated because there is a question of whose responsibility education is. On the one hand, education is the task and the domain of local governments. On the other hand, the state is dealing with it, it is the task of the state. You understand that very well. It should be decided where one starts and where the other ends, where the municipality has to find the means to carry out these tasks, and the State should also find the means when it puts on certain tasks. For example, in certain cases there are many problems in finding teachers. We can ask a question, but whose job is to find teachers at a school on the territory of the municipality. In my opinion, this is the task of the municipality. Once again, in the field of education, social affairs, etc., there are a number of tasks in the grey zone. But it is also one of the tasks of setting limits in the course of debate and disputes, where one ends and another begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U25	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In fact, this conflict is programmed in there. For example, in September the municipalities will prepare or specify the final development plans, which are the basis for drawing up the local government budget, then we will discuss the state budget in the Chamber of our Riigikogu and this conflict will go on again. This conflict is generated by the state budget on the one hand and local decisions on the other. How do you think this conflict could end and normalise the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U27	I just see it. The key to resolving this conflict is in this Chamber. It is very difficult for me to say how to resolve these conflicts, but it must be done. Why did the Supreme Court take this decision? Because he found it to be a source of conflict and to remain a source of conflict. I think that very logically, the steps that should be taken and the ones that should ultimately be taken are set out. I am not even so interested in intermediate steps, but in the goal we want to reach, in order to clearly define one and another's tasks, in how much it costs the municipalities to carry out one or the other's task, and in everything that comes from it. In my opinion, the Supreme Court correctly stated that this is the key. It would be very good if you would take this Supreme Court case under your control. I understand that today at 4 p.m. there will be a debate, one of the key issues of which is the execution of the Supreme Court's decision. In my opinion, the honourable Parliament should be active here and exert pressure on everyone, both the local authorities and the government. We have municipalities of a special status, the ministry's relationship with the municipalities is very discreet. How much can we demand from them, how much can we give them, and so on? These things, which have been causing problems for years, should finally be put in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U28	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We all know that the state plays an important role in the financial capacity of the local government. That's two ways. Firstly, as we talked about today, the provision of national budget allocations for public functions, plus a certain percentage of certain taxes. Secondly, for example, through the Local Government Organisation Act, which talks about the possibilities for local governments to generate a revenue base with certain local taxes themselves. Consequently, I have the following question. What is your position if the state reduces the local government's ability to generate income through local taxes, should there be a negotiated compensation mechanism? Local authorities have calculated that they have the possibility to generate their own revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U30	Thank you for your question. It makes sense. As we have just heard, there was a draft on new land tax standards. This would in principle reduce the revenue base of the municipalities. But at the same time, it was clearly stated that EUR 17 million would be provided from the state budget if my memory were not deceived to compensate for it. In my opinion, this process now seems reasonable. On the one hand, the State law regulates this process and, at the same time, provides for the means to compensate for the lost revenue base of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U31	Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U32	Thank you. Mr. Auditor General! We are talking here about a clearer definition and separation of national and self-governing tasks. I have sometimes wondered about the fact that when a municipality carries out public functions for state money, is it not fundamentally contrary to its self-governing nature, because it is as if it is performing somebody else's duties and having them paid off? Isn't there a fundamental problem here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U33	Thank you for your question. I don't find a fundamental problem here. This problem has been addressed differently in the world. It has been dealt with that all the tasks that the State must perform are self-governing tasks, the State takes part in these tasks and starts to perform them. It's possible the same way and different. It is possible that all tasks are the tasks of the State and that the State transfers certain tasks to the municipalities. The third part is, like we talked about, in this gray zone. I don't find anything unreasonable here. It makes sense to me, no matter what we call it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U34	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Auditor General! It was very comforting to hear from you right here and now that if the state is putting a task on the local government, it should also be able to find money to carry it out. However, if it happens differently that the state reduces the local government's income base in percentage terms, as has happened recently, would it be fair in your view that the state should also reduce the functions of the local government in name, in part or in percentage terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U36	I would first like to say that these issues must be resolved in this Chamber. I wouldn't want to have to go back to court to resolve these issues. After all, the fundamental position is stated: the tasks assigned by the state to the local government must be funded. That makes perfect sense. If the State imposes additional tasks and if these principles have been developed, then an additional source of cover must also be found. Basically, it couldn't be that the state is putting the task, but the money doesn't give it. That's what it's all about. But I'll tell you again, the rules of the game need to be set. To this end, it is necessary to determine what is one task, what is another task and what is the cost of carrying out one task or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U37	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! You spoke very much about the fact that neither local authorities nor the state has made it clear what their functions are. I argue that it is quite clear about roads, which are rural and urban roads and which are national roads, but at the same time, 15 times more money is foreseen for a country road per kilometre than for a local government road per kilometre. In the last three years, the road money of local governments has been reduced three times. There is no obstacle to funding, there must be an obstacle to something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U39	I repeat exactly what we were talking about: it was about local governments having to determine the level of roads. Each level requires different means. That's one. Secondly, municipalities must evaluate their roads according to 60 parameters. My message was that one of the two: either we demand that they do it, or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should re-evaluate it, say that this task is unreasonable, it is not necessary. [[Nobody's ever done that.]] In that case, the act should be amended. That was the message I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U40	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Auditor General! Where money is distributed, the conflict is always programmed in. But by memory, there were many fewer conflict situations between government and local governments. Before October 2005, when, according to my memory, 98 of the 101 people in this Chamber had also worked in the local government, many of the issues were solved here. You have said several times that this problem should be resolved in this Chamber. Maybe I'll get a little away from the subject we're discussing, but I'd really like to know what you think. What do you think if Parliament were allowed to represent both the local government and the state authority again, perhaps this would create a greater working peace in our relations?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U42	Thank you for this question. I mean, we could start putting a cease-fire in the conference room today at 4 p.m. where, on the one hand, the municipalities and, on the other hand, your people will sit down and try to reach an agreement. There are very different ways of reaching an agreement. That doesn't mean everyone should be in this room together. But it's a political question, and I don't want to get into it much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U43	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! We all know that sometimes it happens that unfilled tasks on one side generate financial costs on the other side. You have given an example that it is the task of the local government to look for teachers. Yes, it is, but preparing teachers is the responsibility of the state. If the state does not deal with this, then one day it will happen that the local government will have to enter into contracts and start training teachers at its own expense without any will. Practical life demands it. In your opinion, there is no such fear that if we begin to share tasks on a financial basis, some of the tasks that are still being carried out will disappear at all? This happened, for example, with child sport support. It went out of the local government's remit, but neither did the State assume this obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U45	Thank you for your question. I can answer that we are again at the Supreme Court's verdict. The Supreme Court did not voluntarily assume the task of dealing with it. Consequently, there was a problem in society, there were complaints in society, and the Supreme Court began to resolve them. Normally, there is a conflict situation when things cannot be reasonably negotiated. Of course, the state must prepare teachers; no one has any doubt about that. But not all things (in which you are entitled) can be reduced to monetary equivalent only. If many things are reduced to the monetary equivalent, the court will give its ruling. Unfortunately, the court has had to take the role of an arbiter. In my opinion, this decision was fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U46	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Auditor General! Today's topic is the reimbursement of local government expenses. When we read the coalition agreement, we see that it is written behind almost every measure that it happens when the resources are available. We have heard the Minister of Finance from the Riigikogu Speaker's Office say that in 2013 the state will achieve a budgetary balance and go on with a surplus. However, the level of 2008 will not be reached by local authorities until 2015. Please tell me how these two things work together and whether cooperation is therefore deeply disturbed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U48	Thank you for this question. I must say that I do not want to take on the role of the Minister of Finance in terms of the state's capacity, the principles of the state's revenue base and its distribution. But I'm still saying, it's all coming into this hall, and you decide it. It's always the way you don't have to look outside. These decisions are made in this hall, which are necessary for the Estonian state. You've set up the Minister of Finance, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U49	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Auditor General, for your presentation and your answer to questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U50	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry into the price perspectives of electricity submitted on 21 April this year by members of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Aadu Musta, Tarmo Tamme, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korb, Deniss Borodichi and Rainer Vakra. Lembit Kaljuvee, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U51	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I will report to you on an inquiry by the Centre Party on the price perspectives for electricity. There has been a great deal of talk about the price of electricity in this Chamber even during its composition. Our Prime Minister considers the price of electricity to be normal in Estonia. Our esteemed Minister for Economic Affairs has said that the price of electricity is going to rise anyway, and the most important thing is to deal with energy savings. As far as the Minister for Economic Affairs is concerned, I agree that the price of electricity is going to rise anyway, and it is really very important that all energy savings, be they electricity, be it heat energy, be it motor or other fuel. But is the price of electricity normal? In my opinion, it is not normal for a household consumer to pay 10.4 cents in Estonia for a kilowatt-hour of electricity and 10 cents in Finland. In my opinion, it is not normal for one megawatt-hour of electricity in Finland to cost a large consumer EUR 50, while in Estonia it is EUR 67. That is why, but the price of electricity we will continue to talk about here in my opinion. Today's inquiry concerns whether the state wants to mitigate the rise in electricity prices for consumers, whether it is a domestic consumer or a large consumer, our companies. The Centre Party sees the possibility of this in taxes, which are also included in the price of electricity. A specific request for information concerns excise duty. We know that Estonia has an electricity excise duty of 4.47 euros per megawatt-hour; the minimum requirement for the European Union is 1 euro. In the future, there will be a legislative amendment to the Central Party concerning the excise duty on electricity and, in fact, today's question is related to this excise duty. There are three questions I am not going to read. I think the Minister will do so by answering these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U52	Thank you very much, Lembit Kaljuvee. Now, please, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts speaking chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U53	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! The first question: 'The Ministry of Finance forecasts that in two years' time, the coming entry into the free market will increase the price of electricity to the consumer by up to 15%. According to your ministry, the objective of opening up the market and joining the Nordic market is to reduce the increase in electricity prices. On the basis of your ministry's calculations, how will the full opening of the electricity market affect the price of electricity to the household consumer in 2013? ' The forecasts for the future free market price for electricity are speculation. The actual production price of electricity will be on the market. A year and a half in advance is quite difficult to estimate how much the market price could be in the future. It is also quite difficult to predict how much oil will cost on the world market in a year and a half. Why is the price of oil important? Because, in fact, the price of oil as one of the main sources of energy and of electricity produced from anything is generally moving in the same direction. The market prices for electricity are not stable. I will mention some factors influencing the price of electricity here in Estonia in the near future: the construction of the second electric cable Estlink 2 between Finland and Estonia; the construction of the Swedish and Lithuanian electric cable; these cables enable the Estonian and other Baltic markets to integrate into the electricity markets of other countries; the connection of new electric windmills with the Estonian and other Baltic and Scandinavian systems; the construction of new hydropower plants in Norway; the completion of the new Finnish nuclear power plant. In the longer term, the construction of other nuclear plants in the region is not excluded. The question of how the full opening of the market will affect the price of electricity must essentially be answered in terms of not a single day, a month or even a year. The question is essentially what is the price of electricity as a long-term average, what is the mechanism for this price formation and which mechanism is to be considered more effective. As the questioners know, it has been agreed in the European Union that the electricity market must be part of the internal market; it must be open. And since the conclusion of the Accession Treaty, it is also known that the Estonian electricity market must be fully opened in 2013. So we don't have a choice of substance, but it would be meaningless and even populist to complain about the lack of it. Why? Because there is no reason to believe that if the electricity market was not opened, the price of electricity would become more favourable to Estonian consumers in the long term than it will be in the open market. Why would that be? In particular, since electricity markets are open and there are sufficient opportunities to transfer electricity from one country to another, generators can compete with each other. If during any period the profitability of producers grows more than in other business areas, it will attract more investment. As a result, production will increase, prices will decrease and profitability will decrease. This is the general logic of the market economy, which should also serve as a basis for the electricity market. The price regulation mechanism, which is able to compete with an efficient market, has not yet been found. For this reason, in market economies, prices are generally free for all sectors where competition is possible. Experience so far in the open electricity market in the Nordic countries shows that there have been periods where the price there is more expensive than the regulated price in Estonia, and so it is now, and there have been periods when it has been cheaper than we have. When looking at changes in electricity prices both in the Nordic countries and elsewhere in Europe, it must also be taken into account that electricity prices are linked to raw materials and fuel prices. The changes in the taxation of CO2 emissions, in particular as a result of the European Union's energy and climate policies, will also have an impact on prices. In Estonia's circumstances, we need to understand two more things. The fact that the price of electricity in Estonia is the second cheapest in the whole of the European Union, according to Statistics Estonia, is not essentially because our electricity market is closed to domestic consumers. The reason is not that the Estonian Riigikogu, the government or Eesti Energia, if you want to, would know some secret recipe about how to produce much cheaper electricity from other countries. In particular, the fact that we have old power plants in operation, the costs of which have long been spent on investment, has helped to keep the price of electricity down. Even if we did not open up our market, new ones should be built in place of these plants. Unfortunately, it costs a lot and would also be reflected in the price of electricity at a regulated price. Opening up the market means that there is no longer a single monopoly for households from which electricity can be purchased alone. There will be competition in electricity sales and consumers will be able to choose between the terms and conditions of more sellers and packages. The opening of the television and communication market in Estonia has been a long time gone, and this is probably an understandable parallel to many, although certainly not one-to-one one-to-one one-to-one. But we can see that much has changed in this area. The services we are currently consuming on a large scale are far from being limited to the fixed telephone service that was once basic. Competition has a positive impact on the number, quality and unit costs of the services provided. As regards the free electricity market, it should be noted that this does not concern network charges, which account for about half of the consumer's electricity bill. Coordination of both transmission and distribution network charges remains within the competence of the Competition Authority, as competition between generation and sale of electricity is not possible in terms of network services. The second question: 'The European Union has turned towards greener energy, and part of this is CO2 taxation. If electricity producers have received CO2 quotas free of charge to date, companies will have to start buying it on the market from 2013 onwards. How does this affect the future competitiveness of electricity made from oil shale in Estonia? 'The addition of CO2 costs to the cost of generating electricity will certainly reduce the competitiveness of oil shale electricity as the cost of the product increases. To some extent, the conditions set for the new carbon trading period may also have an impact on electricity prices in the Nordic countries. However, its impact is expected to be modest for producers in other countries that already account for CO2 costs. At the same time, Estonia Energia AS is already forced to buy a CO2 quota on the market because of the export of electricity, which is why the cost of CO2 is reflected to a certain extent in the free market price. In this context, it is important to note the inequities that will arise in 2013 between the European Union and the so-called third-country electricity producers. As there is no additional cost of CO2 for producers of fossil fuel electricity operating outside the European Union, they will have an unjustified competitive advantage. In order to avoid this, measures are currently being prepared to reduce the impact of such unjustified competitive advantages on the electricity market in the European Union, especially in the Baltic States. In order to increase the competitiveness of bulk investment in oil shale, the Electricity Market Act includes a scheme for support for new capacities, which is the subject of a dispute with the European Commission. Also, due to the derogation from the Emissions Trade Directive, Estonia can partially grant electricity producers a free emission quota after 2013, but these revenues must be invested by the electricity producer in cleaner technologies. Therefore, the possibility of granting a free quota does not increase the competitiveness of oil shale electricity in the production of electricity, but this option does increase the competitiveness of investments in new oil shale plants by reducing the risks of investing in them. Question 3: 'The European Union has set the minimum excise duty on electricity at EUR 1 per MWh. Today, Estonia has an electricity excise duty of EUR 4.47 per MWh. Do you not think that an electricity excise is today a country's opportunity to control the rise in electricity prices? ' Electricity excise duties were last raised by the Riigikogu on the basis of a proposal from the Greens. Thus, the aim of the excise policy was to promote energy saving, with which the questioners agree, as explained in the introduction. Indirect taxes can have some influence on consumer behaviour. Both excise duties on fuel and excise duties on electricity will undoubtedly have an impact not only on the collection of state tax revenue but also on consumers' thinking more about how to use energy more efficiently. As far as the possible social impact of changes in electricity prices is concerned by excise policy, the change in the rate of excise duty is a tool in the hands of the legislator, but there is reason to doubt the feasibility of using this social support to replace it. It is true that this is one of the few electricity price components directly affected by the legislator, but it is not sufficiently large to have a significant impact on the price. The evolution of other price components, in particular the evolution of electricity prices in the market, has a potentially higher impact. It is also an outright measure that would apply equally to all consumers, including those who are not likely to need it. In my opinion, however, the social impact of price increases is reasonable and more effective in mitigating it through targeted social benefits and could be discussed. Last week there was a very useful debate on energy savings here. This was essential because the greatest opportunities to actually reduce home costs are hidden in more efficient use of energy. The largest amount of energy is consumed by households across sectors and, in turn, the highest energy consumption is heating, i.e. heat. The new European Union Energy Efficiency Plan recognises that its implementation can save up to €1000 per household every year. How do you do that? In the coming years, the most important thing is to deal with the heat consumption of buildings, which is the main direction of the European Union's energy efficiency plan, and in Estonia, where heat consumption is higher than average due to the climate, this issue is all the more important. Supporting the energy efficiency of apartment buildings, as well as small houses, is the country's most important effort to reduce home costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U54	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Maybe memory's cheating on me, and then I'm apologizing, but about three months ago, I saw you on TV every day. Once in Estonian, once in Russian, you promised to reduce utilities by half during the next four years, I guess it was. It is now clear from your answers that, for example, an increase in electricity prices is inevitable. Here's the question: how do you halve the price of electricity or what utilities do you fulfill your pre-election promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U56	As I said, the main cost of household expenditure in Estonia is about two thirds of the cost of heating. I think we should focus on saving heat costs, which means saving energy both in apartment buildings and in small buildings. This is a real opportunity to save home expenses. As far as electricity prices are concerned, this is certainly relevant from the point of view of electoral promises. What we have not talked about here in the course of our inquiry is a change in the renewable energy charging system. This will certainly also have an impact on electricity prices. But it is said that the price of electricity generation is on the market and that the consumer can adjust his behaviour accordingly, we also talked three months ago and, in fact, three years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U57	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I'd like to be more specific. Did I really hear correctly that the production price is on the market? And here's the other half of the question whether the sale price will be in the market: but then tell me, please, what role does the Prime Minister's assessment or the coordination of the inspection play in practice? It would be like market prices, but those factors where they are: are they outside the market or are they on? Because either way, they affect the price.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U59	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your attempt to create some sort of order around renewable energy. But I bet the Reform Party won't let you do much. But the question is this: do you, as Minister of Economic Affairs, think that the price of electricity in Estonia, given the average incomes of people, is the emphasis precisely on the fact that, given the average incomes of people, is normal for ordinary consumers? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U60	Not as much as you need, but thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! If it seemed to you that I was vexing here when I referred to your pre-election promise to halve utilities, it's a mistaken impression. I am sincerely grateful to you for this ad. In fact, three and a half months ago, I took part in a round table where the housing associations met to discuss the election promises of the parties together, particularly in the public domain, of course. There had been some action if my memory didn't fool me, the electoral platforms and promises of the five largest parties, but of course these TV clips were also affected. The IRL platform had been removed from the competition, it was not discussed at all. In general, however, normal, average people, the presidents of housing associations came together. And they understood very well that the price of water and sewers is not going down under any circumstances. There are huge euro projects in progress in Estonia and they slow down the pace of price increases, but prices are rising anyway and everyone knows that. It's no secret that heat gets expensive. It has become about twice as expensive in the last four years, and this rise continues. There is no way to stop it in today's world. It's exactly the same with electricity. Everyone understands that the insulation of the house is, of course, possible, and it can save up to 20% if it's good, but in order to carry out these works, credit is taken and, ultimately, it doesn't make any savings. After all, paying the bank back the loan costs the same amount of money. So what I'm saying is, no offense, that's normal. The other thing is that we are going to ask regularly how these unfulfilled promises will be fulfilled. And it's always a pleasure to hear answers like today it was about vodka. That purchasing capacity has increased, because now the average pension can buy more vodka. Yes, of course, in 1985, an average pension of 100 roubles could buy 20 bottles of vodka. At present, the average pension in the old currency is 4500 kroons and it is worth buying about 70 bottles of vodka. Indeed, purchasing power has grown. But in 1985, I paid 25 rubles, or five bottles of vodka, for a two - room apartment during the heating period. Right now, my mom's paying 1,200 kroons for it, or 20 bottles of vodka, the price difference is quadruple. The rent has increased four times! Such logic flashes are always a source of joy. So thank you anyway!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U61	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U62	The price of electricity to the final consumer, as was said in the Riigikogu during the previous term, consists of several components. When we talk about opening up the market first and foremost, this market is open to different producers. Producers sell their electricity and that is the market price. The cost of transmission of electricity is added to the cost for the consumer. These are twofold: the core network and the distribution network. The core network and distribution network remain monopolistic, their prices are cost-oriented and their cost-orientation and the reasonable return on companies are controlled by the Competition Authority. The third block is what Mr Kaljuvee is talking about. These are possible taxes: VAT, excise duty and, in the case of Estonia, with regard to renewable energy support, renewable energy charges are also considered an additional payment to the consumer. These last three are directly made by the Riigikogu. With regard to the distribution and transmission network, the legislator has given its very precise rules on the basis of which the Competition Authority sets these prices, while the electricity production price is on the market. In order for this market to be undistorted, we have a lot to do, but the first experience shows that it is still possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U63	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Would you be so kind as to explain the mechanism of your thinking a little more closely? How do you manage to explain to us that opening up the electricity market could even lower the price of electricity? We have an open market for food, and we can see that prices are on the ceiling, in unprecedented heights, partly higher than in other parts of Europe. In the petrol trade under your control, we see only negative aspects, cartel agreements and the same high price for all gas stations. How can this price of electricity start to fall suddenly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U65	Make an appointment, we'll give you a lecture. But I'm sure you know the price of vodka. When Brezhnev finished his job, the bottle cost 4 rubles 12 kopiks. Compared to a person's average salary in 1982, when Brezhnev died, the current average wage and pension can suggest that the price of vodka has fallen considerably compared to purchasing power. The same is true of all other goods. If we look at the relationship between inflation and the growth of people's incomes over a period of time, we should understand whether some prices have actually increased or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U66	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U67	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You're saying the price of the power exchange is speculative. In a way, it's right. If we look at today's bill, the Nord Pool price is almost twice as expensive for the consumer. By the way, we had the honour of meeting the Director General of the Competition Board, Märt Ots, two weeks ago, who claimed that the accession of elephant and ant takes place on 1 January 2013, where the elephant is Nordic and the ant is Estonia. Inevitably, the price will also be passed on to the Estonian consumer. Its claim was later confirmed by a press release, that it and the Competition Authority as a whole had estimated that the price would increase twice for the household consumer. Do you think that the Competition Authority's assessment could be intelligent speculation or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U68	I have not argued that the stock market price is speculative. The current price of the power exchange is the market price. I said that all kinds of prognosis are speculative. Similarly, if we want to stand out and not be modest, we can do the forecast that in ten years' time, the price of electricity will be tens of times higher in nominal terms. People, flee the Republic of Estonia! These are speculative arguments which are very difficult to prove. But the reason why I answered the first question at length is also the kind of speculative predictions that must inevitably be made. Let us admit that the Ministry of Finance must, however, produce some forecasts, for example, we are making forecasts of oil prices. At the same time, we must take into account that, apart from other prices, oil prices are also volatile. I don't know what's gonna happen in the world economy. Also, positive forecasts sometimes fail to match the growth forecast for the first quarter of this year by 4.5%, but it came to 8%. Imagine, we couldn't predict the value added of the Estonian economy more or less for three months, we were quite wrong! That's not a criticism. As far as stock market prices are concerned, they are most likely to converge. For example, the exchange prices of Nordic countries and possible Estonian and other Baltic countries. However, if we look at the current reality, we can see that the last nine months or even more, almost a year already, they have not been united, however. However, we have a market situation that is even more diverse, we also have electricity from third countries and connections have not been properly developed. It'll take time. So these prices can be different. And what is important is: as I have already said, today all fuel prices and therefore, in some ways, electricity prices are relatively high. If we look at Nord Pool's experience in 10 or 15 years, I repeat: there have been times when the price there has been cheaper than the regulated price in Estonia. It could also be possible. And this could also be our possible scenario, quite seriously. If you imagine factors that affect prices in the Nordic countries and in Estonia in the future, then much depends on the situation in the summer. Then there may be a completely different electricity demand in this region. Winters are also different, warm or cold. Jne, et cetera. So in this sense, prices can be very different. We must learn to behave in this new situation for us. However, it is clear that our current system, I repeat, has still created a situation where no investment is made in electricity generation. Our regulated price has come thanks to Soviet investment. Later investment, no capital component in this price. But we would be wonder people here in the Republic of Estonia if we had created such a wonderful situation that the price of our electricity is actually extremely cheap here in the north. We have to face reality: if we do not make these changes, then in the long term, this price-setting system will actually be the most sensible for the consumer, even the normal consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U69	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U70	Thank you. Good minister! We all said that there would be an increase in the price when we went to the stock market, and that there would soon also be an increase in the cost of transport, so the tariff. But I see another major source of danger in the area of price increases, and these are the amounts of renewable energy subsidies. As Mr Vakra said, we had the honour of meeting with the head of the Competition Authority, who said that if all these projects are realised, which we are currently planning, this means a two- to three-fold increase in support for renewable energy. And since it is one of the components of the tariff, it also affects the tariff. What is your position: renewable energy is of course important, but whether it has to be paid out of the taxpayer's pocket or whether it is possible to find another source of cover, be it the profit of Eesti Energia or, for example, the sale of CO2 quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U71	Changes to the system of renewable energy subsidies are currently listed in the current government programme. I think we're going to discuss this in this Chamber. I have said my position here: the current support system is clearly inclined towards the consumer. The remuneration is too high given the nature of the remuneration and needs to be adjusted. There are different ways. It is difficult for me to say at the moment what opportunity we can reach in the government, in the Riigikogu and also with market participants. The options are very different. I believe it's a matter of this year. Of course, it is also important how we deal with the investments already made in renewable energy. My position is clear, if it is still a certain degree of public support, with taxes, no matter what we call it, in the case of such a scheme, the investor's return must be reasonable. And this has nothing to do with the profits or dividends of Eesti Energia, because we have very different companies investing in renewable energy. The place of dispute is what a reasonable rate of return is. We know more or less what European practice is like. There will certainly be no profits at all. If there is a completely different situation on the market for renewable energy depending on the market price and the profits are high and no support for renewable energy is available, no one will be hindering. Let him earn as much as circumstances permit. So this also depends in some way on the market position. But it is clear that this system needs to be corrected. We have had a certain experience here in four to five years, and we can certainly propose a solution that will mitigate the risk you referred to by talking about your meeting with the Director-General of the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U72	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U73	First of all, there are so many lawyers in the Reform Party that I don't even take this assignment to protect them, even though here I have a lot of a whole file with me. As far as electricity prices and incomes are concerned, I am deeply convinced that the incomes of Estonian people are too low. We must work to ensure that the income of the Estonian people increases. It's actually a challenge. In my opinion, these incomes, of course, must come from people who work and get paid. This gives rise to the possibility of raising pensions for our elderly people and also to help those in need of social assistance. We have to work for this. If the Centre Party in Estonia were to gain a great deal of support overnight in some incomprehensible way, you could certainly take the task of bringing the price of electricity to zero. I mean, that would bring some satisfaction. But I don't think you're gonna do it! So let's put things on top of our heads. Our goal must be to increase people's income. Looking at electricity bills in general today, the key question for a person is whether he is also using electricity for heating purposes. And that's actually this focus point, there's real savings. In this sense, I will also answer Mr Stalnukhin's question: there is no point in ridiculing our electoral promises. It is a very substantial programme so that we actually stop wasting and people can save long-term savings on the world market, with a certain amount of investment, whatever the price of oil and, consequently, the price of electricity does.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U74	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U75	Thank you. Good waitress! No one can really set a price in conditions of competition, which is what we understand. We can only talk about this part of the price that is linked to national taxes, and it will be put in place in this Chamber. I think that if you make a good proposal, colleagues will support you. The question is that, when the market opens in 2013, will you, as a respected Minister for Economic Affairs, agree to reduce excise duties in order to improve the competitiveness of state-owned enterprises?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U76	The overall reduction, for the reasons I have already brought in my answers, does not make sense to me. Once again, if we look at the various parameters, you are such a wise person that, you know, given the economic wealth we create, we actually consume too much energy. We can also be more effective in energy consumption by creating our added value or striving for our well-being. Walking around with energy as rationally as human labour is a sensible political direction, and I think it should be maintained. As far as families with lower incomes are concerned, the social consequences for them must be closely monitored by our social system. I've offered to discuss it here. This could be done with the Minister of Social Affairs and analysed whether our system of income support takes into account certain differences here. Perhaps more support should be given in this regard. In any case, helping on a need-based basis would be wise. As far as companies are concerned, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I have been of the opinion that we should consider different rates of electricity excise duty. With this in mind, companies that consume much more electricity than others. This is also possible under the Euro Directive. Unfortunately, we do not have a common vision in the government on this issue. But it's not an insurmountable difference of opinion. I fully understand the arguments put forward by the Minister of Finance, but I think we should put the idea behind us. If we look now at those interested who want to invest in Estonia, then the Ministry of Economic Affairs also occasionally gets ideas that offer interesting investments for Estonia in a ten-year perspective, where electricity consumption has an important place. In other words, this is not just the concern of a few companies that are concentrated in a large consumer community. They believe that the electricity excise duty could be at different rates, for some companies a step or two lower. But in this regard, the Ministry of Finance has been relatively rigid for three years. So this debate could be continued. Rather collect arguments to show that it actually increases the overall competitiveness of the country in certain sectors, in certain industries. I believe that, under certain circumstances, this issue is worth discussing. As far as other companies are concerned, in my opinion, too, energy saving opportunities are clearly present, be they industrial companies or service providers. Again, something would be proposed here to motivate them with something in addition to our good income tax system, which provides for an exemption from income tax in case of reinvestment in energy efficiency. This would be more sensible in the general interest of the economy than making any one-off move on any one-off recommendations. There are these views now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U77	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U78	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! In your view, as well as in the position of the Prime Minister, network charges, which account for one third of the consumer price of electricity, are dealt with only by the Competition Authority. I don't think so. If you look at what our network charges are doing now, you have the impression that this is something that the state should deal with. It is in this sense to determine what our policy is in terms of networks: whether we want gold nets everywhere or whether we want to analyse them properly in a land-based manner, where we build what we build, which nets our Estonia needs. The amount of the network charge and therefore the price of electricity will depend very much on it, but that is not what the Competition Authority is really doing. It shall formally examine whether one or the other price component is justified or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U79	I probably agree with the Prime Minister here that this cannot be dealt with at political level. I would like to point out once again that there is more than one network company, Mr Kaljuvee. As far as I know, there are more than 30 of them across Estonia, some operating in rural areas, some operating within smaller limits. Yes, it is right that Eesti Energia has a large majority of the distribution network, but the network companies are different. That's one. Secondly, you yourself have passed the law that, when the Competition Authority reviews prices with such a company, this price analysis does not work in such a way that some Czech dry official stamps some kind of paper. In fact, there is a discussion where the company proposes its own investment scheme, which is an important cost component, and offers other components that are due to economic conditions. A price decision is a kind of agreement and can also be seen as an undertaking's promise to do one thing or another. As far as network companies are concerned, looking at the general state of the electricity grid in Estonia, it can be said that there has been a huge deficit in 20 years since the 1980s and 1990s. At the time, they just didn't invest. The situation is almost like that when a small breeze blows here, Estonia becomes a country with no electricity. And if there's a serious storm, which can't be ruled out, then what? I think people want constant power supply. They don't want to know that the wind blows outside within the nearest 50 km radius and a tree has fallen on a rotten electric pole. Man wants the power to be there all the time. And this also applies to electricity networks, that if we look at the whole economy, the whole business, I find it difficult to generalise, but more and more Estonian companies and companies wishing to invest in Estonia need a very high-quality, uniform voltage electrical current. This is an extremely important service, given the equipment park used by companies. That's the kind of thing. Kaljuvee and I have been talking about this for four years, but I haven't seen any gold wire anywhere. Tell me exactly where it is and what electricity it is giving here in Estonia! I'll go see for myself. You're exaggerating! The situation is exactly what it is. The dispute between Eesti Energia and the Competition Board has been the subject of special attention in the current system, but the Competition Board did not agree with everything that Eesti Energia wanted. Eesti Energia received much less. And you could invest a lot more.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U80	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation and your answer to questions. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, two minutes on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U81	I would like to thank the Minister for his long and exhaustive answers. But as for this golden piece of wire, there's one thing I can definitely suggest. Drive from Pärnu to Audru and look to the left where the networks are constructed, the electric poles are on them, the electric shields are on them, but I think they will be rusted before this development starts. In fact, the core network has put resources there and the money has been spent. And this money has come from consumers' pockets.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U82	I would now like to ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin of the speaker's desk. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U83	Ladies and gentlemen, You can now register for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not like I sat in this hall in vain waiting for a free microphone. I actually have a very serious subject and this topic is Estonian at the Russian-speaking school. Last week, the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research, Mr. Kütttis, visited Narva. Before leaving Narva, he gave interviews and stated that, at least through Delfi, it can be said that one problem in Russian schools is that middle school graduates have an extremely weak level in Estonian. I agree with him and can give concrete examples. The question, however, is very fundamental. Just so you know: Estonian is currently studied in Russian-speaking comprehensive school for nine years: 1.1-9. A total of 30 courses, or 1050 hours, will be completed. This is not all because there are constantly different programmes that should make children talk • they are living somewhere else in Estonian cities, in Estonian families, for example, in islands, all kinds of summer camps. Three to seven subjects are given in Estonian at different schools. And yet, at the end of the ninth grade, we get the result that, for example, in Narva, the Kreenholm Gymnasium is now planning to transfer the study to Estonian, while last year the graduates of this secondary school took an average of 58 points in the state examination of the Estonian language. I may be a little mistaken, but according to my memory, 56 of the examiners only got a category B1 certificate by 19. This is a complete misunderstanding! Renewed Estonia has already been full for 20 years and the language issue is one of the most important in the country, it is always spoken about. Perhaps someone in the Ministry of Education can explain how it is possible for a child with a fresh head, a strong learning capacity and a great motivation to spend 1050 hours studying the Estonian language, but still he does not understand the simplest questions? Is this a sabotage or a simple desire to maintain a situation where non-Estonians do not speak Estonian? Anyway, Mr. Hunter and I discussed this issue in Narva. Some options were also offered for controlling the situation, how to improve the teaching of Estonian in Russian schools. I am deeply convinced that in 1,000 hours it will be possible to learn Estonian, and I think that simply no one has set this goal for Estonian lessons. It is much easier to make a Russian biology teacher speak in Estonian, so let the Russian teacher speak in Estonian at Russian school with Russian children. If anyone says it's a way out, he's wrong. I think we need a social debate, a discussion. We need to think about how we can change this situation. I am an Estonian philologist and I am telling you that if a child does not learn any language in 1,000 hours, such as Estonian, there is something wrong with the teaching system. I understand that there is absolutely nothing to depend on us on this issue right now, but I appeal to this empty Chamber with the proposal to start this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-16_U85	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4.44 p.m.
