ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 46 comms registered to be present, 55 missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U2	Let's go to today's questions. The first question is from my colleague, Mailis Reps, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U3	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! At the end of last week, you met with French Prime Minister François Fillon and, of course, apart from economic relations, the European debt crisis was being discussed at the meeting. In view of the plans made between Merkel and the French President in this area, which has been quite much reflected in the media, your promise is that Estonia will support the earlier enforcement of the permanent European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, is quite broad-based. You made this promise without coordinating with the Riigikogu. Perhaps you will explain to the members of the Riigikogu where you received this authorisation? On which basis did you promise to join the ESM earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U4	I have my own personal position, and I am not going to give it up even if you, Mrs Reps, would very much like it. I'm gonna keep my convictions, and I'm not gonna give them up funny. However, I am quite convinced that I will also be able to convince you that earlier implementation of the permanent stability mechanism will be more beneficial than later implementation. And why is it more useful? We have also talked about the amounts involved in the ratification of the EFSF. In the case of EFSF, if we are talking about a possible guarantee for the Estonian state of EUR 2 billion, then in the case of ESM, we are talking about a maximum amount of EUR 1.3 billion. However, there is a small difference between guaranteeing EUR 2 billion and EUR 1.3 billion. In fact, for the Estonian state, I think this is a pretty important difference. Estonia's participation in the EFSF is much higher than in the ESM, and therefore, the sooner we move from temporary and relatively inflexible mechanisms to a permanent and flexible mechanism, the better. And the better not only for Estonia, but for Europe as a whole. However, I am not very optimistic about the success in the European Union of launching the ESM, or permanent stability mechanism, a year earlier, as many European Union countries have requested.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U5	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U6	Thank you. According to current plans, the ESM is expected to enter into force in July 2013. Of course, in the case of ESM, Estonia will have to pay up EUR 149 million in capital over a period of five years, i.e. in real money almost EUR 30 million per year. According to your conviction, as you emphasised, if we implement it in July 2012, this should also be reflected in the 2012 budget. Would you like to introduce how it's reflected?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U7	This is not reflected in it, because no one has yet made such a decision. It would also be very strange if it were reflected there for no reason at all. I see no reason why it should be in that budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U8	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U9	It is a pity, of course, that you only rely on your convictions. In that case, we will probably have to deal with it soon, as with the EFSF emergency procedure. In the urgent procedure, however, the government overlooked that the State Budget Act did not allow such guarantees at all, and quite a number of members of the Riigikogu have also asked whether joining the ESM is compatible with the Constitution. Since you are so confident in defending it, perhaps you will explain to the members of the Riigikogu whether, according to your conviction, the granting of such a guarantee is in accordance with the Constitution and the State Budget Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U10	My conviction is that it is consistent. And my conviction is that the ratification of the EFSF was also in line with both our state budget law and our constitution. I would say that, of course, Estonian legislation has not been adapted and adapted to the conduct of independent monetary policy. There has been no independent monetary policy in Estonia since the restoration of independence. The Estonian kroon was rigidly tied to the German mark and we automatically took the monetary policy of the Bundesbank as the monetary policy of Estonia. Later we have linked the Estonian kroon to the exchange rate of the euro and we have not pursued an active monetary policy even if the Estonian kroon has been linked to the euro. Now, for the first time since the restoration of independence in Estonia, we are conducting monetary policy, but we are doing so with our eurozone partners. And this is a new challenge for the Estonian legislative space, because in the past we have not had to make any overnight promotions to guarantee the stability of the currency, we have not had to buy bonds. And since there is no need, our legislation has not been unambiguously prepared to regulate all the situations that may arise in one country that has an independent monetary policy. It's kind of natural that we're in this situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, Since this is an important issue, I promise more locally registered issues today, but no more than five. Let's start with my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! Last week, when we met people in the River, these bonds also came up, and the biggest problem was that people did not understand why they did not talk about it before the euro came. We know that the Minister of Finance went to various meetings in Europe a year before that, which spoke very directly about the euro crisis and the possible responsibilities that this entails for Estonia. That is exactly what Estonia is all about. That's part of the question. But on the other hand, I would like to ask why our share of this fund is so large, 13% of GDP. The Finnish rate is 7.3%, Luxembourg is 4.4% and Germany is 8.2%. Why is our share so high, we're a small country, aren't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U13	This proportion is determined not only on the basis of a percentage calculated from gross domestic product but also in proportion to the number of inhabitants. If you compare how many people in one European Union country guarantee the obligations of the EFSF, you will have a completely different ranking. You would see that the people of Estonia contribute the smallest amount per person. So the rankings can be compiled differently based on one or the other or, for example, the 32nd parameter. I dare say that the key to the EFSF, yes, is not as useful for Estonia as is the key to the distribution of the ESM, but it must be remembered that solidarity can always be bilateral. The key to the EFSF contribution is the key to the distribution of the European Central Bank's revenue. If the European Central Bank issues euro, it will generate revenue and these revenues will be distributed among the Member States according to a single algorithm. When we were talking about revenue, this key was perfect for us, but when we were talking about spending, we said no, this EFSF key is no good for us, we're gonna make the ESM key, we're gonna have to pay less. It is understandable in some ways, but it must be said that although this approach was not fair. If there was anything to get, if we wanted more, then this distribution key was good for us, but as soon as we had to start guaranteeing common costs on the basis of the same key, we said it was no longer suitable for us, we want a new key instead. In fact, I am absolutely sure that we will never, under any circumstances, accept the European Central Bank's revenue from this key to the ESM.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U14	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! I think you just answered the question, but it doesn't matter. As I understand you, our country is pursuing the right monetary policy, the right lending policy, based on your personal conviction. And now I would like to give you an example: by living on the basis of your personal conviction, we have achieved an average salary of EUR 857 per month, while in Greece and Portugal it is much higher. In Ireland, for example, the average wage is EUR 4032. In Greece and Portugal, pensions are nearly 100% of wages; we know we have a poor share. And now I ask, when do we get to the level of those poor countries that we have to help? What does your inner conviction say about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U16	Give it time, and we'll make it! It's not like our current average salary hasn't come overnight either. As a reminder, I, for example, have ever received eight kroons a month in crowns. Then I got 11 kroons a month, 110 rubles, and it was a pretty big salary after graduating. We have taken a good step forward, and I dare say that wages and pensions have grown very fast in Estonia in the last 20 years. Most other countries have not had 50 years of occupation in the meantime and their free development has lasted much longer than Estonian society. I hope you all voted in favour of the EFSF. I don't think you meant a particular country to be bailed out. For me, the main reason for ratifying the EFSF Treaty was that this is how we strengthened the security space to which Estonia belongs. According to my conviction, the people of Estonia joined the European Union primarily on the basis of security considerations. Yes, we know that the European Union is not NATO, but we also know that when the European Union project was launched, it was a peace-building project. For the people of Estonia, security considerations are probably the most important consideration. By ratifying the EFSF agreement, we strengthened the market to which we sell 70% of our exports. And we know that the volume of exports compared to the volume of gross domestic product is 70 to 80%. We have stabilised the market from which our revenues actually cover our table.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U17	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! You're trying to take the subject off the table here in Question Time, talking about the salary of the President of the District Committee of your own time. But I still want to come back to the subject. This question was raised in Question Time because you have very clear convictions, which are not changed either by the opinion of the people or by the debate in Parliament. In an effort to expand your convictions, I am interested in the following question. On the weekend, we could watch Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy meet. They had different views on how the euro area countries should help banks in trouble in southern Europe in the future. Nicolas Sarkozy's view was that all the euro countries should go to the banks in solidarity immediately, and Mrs Merkel rather represented the view that, above all, those countries whose banks have made risky investments should go to the aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U19	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U20	Which position do you believe you support?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U21	First of all, as far as I know, it wasn't exactly the way you serve the problem. I am quite convinced that the vast majority of the Ministers-General and Presidents of the European Union are of the opinion that the recapitalisation of commercial banks in distress must take place in a coordinated manner. But the question is, what steps should this recapitalisation take, what must be the primary responsibility of the banks, when it would be possible to obtain assistance from international financial institutions. This aid certainly does not mean any kind of humanitarian aid, but it will still be a credit that will have to be returned with a percentage. So this is primarily a question of these details. The world has learned a great deal about letting Lehman Brothers go bankrupt. It still created a huge turbulence all over the world. From now on, they want to keep the world from such collapses. I'm convinced it's pretty rational thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U22	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In Estonian society, including the press, and also in this hall, the ESM is spoken of as a means that at least half of the Estonian people have already read the agreement. I checked with my colleagues in this Chamber, somebody in physical form on an ESM document, whether they haven't seen the founding agreement or the merger agreement. Does the ESM contract exist in printed form? Does it exist in English or even in Estonian and, if not, when will it arrive on our tables so that you can get acquainted so that you can talk about something that is physically present?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U24	The original texts exist and exist in Estonian, but this whole topic is still the subject of negotiations and there is no final text. The text that the government could present to the Riigikogu for ratification does not currently exist. We do not exist anywhere in Estonia or in the European Union because such agreements have not yet been concluded. However, according to the current consensual perceptions, the Treaty proposes the following text: 'Member States whose currency is the euro may establish a stability mechanism that will be introduced if it is essential for the stability of the euro area as a whole. On the basis of the mechanism, any necessary financial assistance shall be provided under strict conditions. ' So far, a common understanding has been that helping a country in trouble, by bailing out by another country or other countries, or by the European Union together, is excluded. This principle will remain valid, but there will be an exception to the creation of a common stability mechanism from which a loan can be obtained subject to strict conditionality. And, of course, that money has to be paid back. This is the change that is currently being planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U25	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U26	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I heard from your answer that you thought this EFSF guarantee decision was in accordance with the state budget law that came from the government. The Chancellor of Justice and this association here called Riigikogu thought otherwise. Did you think the last two institutions were wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U27	If you read the position of the Chancellor of Justice literally, he does not categorically claim that the decision of the EFSF sent to the Government's Riigikogu was unambiguously contrary to the current basic state budget law. You won't find that statement in a letter from the Chancellor of Justice. On the contrary, it expresses itself about the fact that the clause that allows such guarantees to be given to private companies in the event of the need to prevent the insolvency of a commercial bank, the financial crisis etc. is used in this case relatively arbitrarily to ensure the stability of the euro and not to guarantee the financial capacity of a commercial bank in Estonia. I dare argue against this, and the Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, knows that such objections are possible, because if Estonia participates in ensuring pan-European financial stability, it will participate in this completely in proportion, not in a disproportionate share. And by ensuring financial stability in the European Union, we also ensure the financial capacity of our commercial banks in particular. Based on this statement, I dare say that this draft submitted by the government to the Riigikogu was in accordance with the basic law of the state budget. But I admit that since we in Estonia have not had an independent monetary policy due to the currency board system and the fixed exchange rate, our law has not been unambiguously interpreted in such extreme situations. And any clarification that Parliament has made is welcome and necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U28	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U29	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I have a question about the future of internal defence education, bearing in mind both its content and its form. I am thinking in particular of police education. Ten years ago, a political decision was taken, internal defence education reform took place, and vocational education and training was transferred from the agencies to the Academy of Home Affairs. The aim was to harmonise vocational and professional higher education. Millions of kroons were spent on developing police education to switch to this new competence-based education, involve external experts, etc. Now the Estonian Academy of Defence has started to change this direction and has started to apply for more academicism. In other words, vocational education and training is disappearing from the curricula of the Estonian National Defence Academy. Hence my question: how do you personally see the future of internal defence education, could it really develop on the basis of the interests of the agencies or on the basis of academicism?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U31	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu, for a very good question. It is true that in 2011 new students were accepted in police studies only for the purpose of obtaining a curriculum of applied higher education. The situation was different in 2010, with at least half of the students in police vocational training. I am saying here very clearly and frankly that the debate on this issue will continue at the Ministry, the Police and Border Guard Board and the National Defence Academy. We are preparing an analysis to meet 2012 with a rather fundamentally and thoroughly discussed view as to whether the vocational training of the police should come back to the Academy of Internal Defence or whether it is reasonable to keep the course, as has been considered right before my entry into office, towards the development of a harmonised police university of applied higher education. This is a very important subject. Vocational training has so far been justified for quite a number of years, as you yourself meant. I must admit that we are at the very beginning of this debate right now. So I can only say here today that I myself have asked quite serious questions as to whether it should not change the decision taken only on the provision of professional higher education in police training at the Academy of Internal Defence. Perhaps also to restore this level of vocational training, which exists both on the side of prisons and on the side of the College of Salvation. At present, we have four vocational training programmes, six curricula of applied higher education and one master's programme to discuss statistics very briefly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U32	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U33	Thank you. I actually have a further question, which may not be as substantive as it concerns concrete, as we like to say in Estonia. We have the relevant vocational schools spread out in several places right now. In the spring, if I am not mistaken, you said here on the remote control that it should be clear in the autumn what goes beyond the National Defence Academy, whether it stays in Tallinn, is moving entirely to Muraste or somewhere else, such as Ida-Viru County. Is this position now established?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U34	Thank you! True, it was said in this very remote area that in autumn an analysis of possible locations would be completed by the State Real Estate Company. One way is to develop a property on Kase Street in Tallinn, renovate it and modernise it. Another possible location is Muraste. Meanwhile, three to four years ago, quite a clear direction was taken to move forward towards Muraste. True, this year we have also talked about the possibility of Ida-Viru County. When considering the cost of resources and everything else for these different locations, it is important to take into account not only the direct cost of bringing together the Academy of Home Affairs in one location, but also the indirect costs of creating a modern learning environment. These additional costs will certainly be significant if the location outside Tallinn is chosen. This analysis takes its time, which is also perfectly understandable when we do it thoroughly. However, I expect that in about two months we will have these scales on the table and we will be able to move on to the decision-making and assessment phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U35	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U36	Thank you. The second point to be clarified is the same analysis. In the Ministry of the Interior, do you consider this analysis to be pure - I call it the price of concrete, or the cost of construction, or, for example, the regional political dimension, so that not everything is concentrated in Tallinn alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U37	Thank you! Not only is the price of concrete taken into account, but, as I have already mentioned, there are certainly indirect costs and benefits. It is clear that certain revenues and costs can be very indirect; they are difficult to calculate precisely in euro. But the regional policy nuance tries to calculate as much as possible, both in terms of costs and revenue. Without it, it is not possible to make such a weighty decision as leaving the National Defence Academy in its current location or moving elsewhere. One thing is clear: it makes sense to bring together the various colleges and branches of colleges, which are now scattered across Estonia, in one place and to solve the problem that has been up for ten years as a whole. So, yes, as far as possible, we will take into account all the costs and benefits associated with this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U38	Now please, ladies and gentlemen, three issues registered on the ground. Let's start with my colleague Lembit from Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U39	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! It's nice that you and the entire Ministry are supporting this to consider the possible location of the academy from a regional political point of view. But do you also consider the political moments of defence? Ida-Virumaa would be a good place in that sense, I mean Narva. The question is this. Others are still discussing the matter, but have you already developed an inner conviction where it would be the right place? I'd be very happy to hear what you think about Narva.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U40	Thank you very much. As far as I know, Riigi Kinnisvara AS analyses different locations in Ida-Virumaa, not just in Narva. Possible solutions have also been mapped around Narva. The whole analysis will take time precisely because it is also intended to take into account the nuance you have mentioned. This is certainly not only a decision from an internal defence point of view, but a decision that is important to society as a whole. The coalition agreement states that we are also considering the solution of Ida-Viru County. That's exactly how we prepare these weights. The government coalition, the government office, must have at hand sufficient arguments, facts, forecasts, detailed accounting of expenditure and revenue, only then can a reasoned and prudent decision be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U41	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U42	Thank you. Good Minister of the Interior! I also ask about Ida-Viru County. In addition to these aspects, which were already discussed in concrete and national defence and the general integration of Ida-Virumaa with other Estonia, I would like to know how important the problem of the teaching staff is considered to be. Is the Tallinn faculty still willing to travel to Narva? That is why I ask: have you already analyzed how useful it is to work with the University of Tartu Narva College and the University of Virumaa College?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U43	Thank you for your question. Yes, the problem of teaching staff is not only predictable, but it is already felt in the Estonian Academy of Defence, especially in colleges outside Tallinn. For example, it is very difficult to find teachers in Paikus. The National Defence Academy has a total of 350 teaching staff. A significant number of them work on the basis of a contract, with a total of 70 members. This is certainly a very important nuance to be taken into account in this analysis. Cooperation with other higher education institutions is, in any case, important. However, the education offered at the National Defence Academy has its own specifics. There are certain universal specialties that can be taught by teaching teachers from different places in Estonia, but experience shows that there is not competition among lecturers in colleges outside Tallinn, but people must be seriously encouraged to teach them on the basis of a contract, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U44	And now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U45	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Years ago, when VET and higher education were exceptionally allowed to be combined in schools under the administration of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, there was a very long dispute. One of the reasons brought by the specialists in your institution was the desire to link vocational education and professional higher education. It certainly was not a desire to reduce vocational education. I have a question for you from a slightly different angle. The coalition plans to revise the school network seriously and to reduce the number of upper secondary schools if necessary. In drawing up this development plan, have you taken into account that if the proportion of vocational education in police training decreases, the arrival of very strong young people in this field will be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U46	As far as I know, the aim of the coalition is to strengthen Estonian upper secondary schools. It is always possible to approach the question constructively or a little destructively. The aim is definitely to strengthen upper secondary school education in Estonia. As I said earlier, with regard to vocational education at the Internal Defence Academy, orders from specific employers, i.e. the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board and other institutions to which specific graduates should reach after they have completed their education, are very important. The Academy of Home Affairs is an educational institution with a large number of indicators. 89% of the students also complete this school, which is a very good percentage compared to some other schools. At the moment, we are really analysing very thoroughly whether the decision taken this year to accept admissions to the police specialty was only right to pursue professional higher education, or whether we should clearly break up applied higher education and vocational training. There are quite a number of experts in favour of vocational education and training; there are also several experts in favour of harmonising vocational higher education. So this is a place of proper analysis and, in any case, for the next academic year, at the latest by next spring, this decision must be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U47	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U48	The next question is Mr Tammelt, Minister of Finance, for Jürgen Ligi. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U49	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! At the beginning of this week, another ranking of local authorities' capabilities was published, which, indeed, was completed by order of the Ministry of the Interior. It turned out to be such an interesting and surprising fact that the most capable local government in Estonia is Viimsi municipality, whose debt burden is 120% compared to the annual income, which essentially means 'Greece'. How do you comment on that? Will this now serve as an example for other Estonian governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U50	Thank you, that's a good question. I was most afraid that you would require me to take up the role of Minister of Regional Affairs, but this is indeed the finance minister's area. No, I don't think Viimsi should set an example with this figure. In any case, there have been years of attempts to justify the violation of the rules. Later, they will also have it under the leadership of one of the colleagues in this Chamber, as far as I know, to cut the budget hard to pay back the loans. Regionally, this is an anomaly that should not be favoured. This means that one region is growing very fast and in the same way is fueling it financially. One thing really is that there will be a lot of people who need infrastructure, but if it becomes a justification for attracting more people with new loans, then from Estonia's point of view it is not good. Viimsi Municipality has tried to develop expansionally. Only if you look at Pirita's way, from Tallinn's point of view, this is not a very good solution. At least breaking the rules on this ground is not correct. If I understand correctly, the attitude of the parish government has changed in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U51	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U52	Thank you for your good answer. But I still wonder if local governments can be viewed differently. If there are rules, everyone should follow the rules unambiguously.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U53	That's what you have to do. But, for example, I became a minister in July 2009 and I could not say on a daily basis that you are now paying back these loans and that your future loan burden is 60%. However, in 2009, we imposed a very strict credit limit, which is now slightly relaxed in terms of the purpose of the loan and not in terms of the volume of the loan. This has reduced the budget deficit of local governments until the surplus is created. And in that case, we hope to reduce the debt burden, that they will still pay back the loans. New loans cannot be obtained for any purpose by those who are above this 60% limit. They also essentially do not receive euro money, as it usually requires co-financing. It's really something we've been monitoring.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U54	Now three issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U55	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I may now go a little bit into the area of the Minister for Regional Affairs, but I hope that you, Mr Ligi, will also be willing to respond to this. No study, of course, is the final truth. The Geomedia survey, which came out a few days ago, is also interpreted in various ways. Your coalition partner has talked about putting together local governments, and then happiness will come out for all of us. I pulled out the data last night on the number of towns and municipalities with less than 3,000 inhabitants. There's 150 out of 226. Looking at this study and knowing about everyday life, it can be said that there are enough problems in large municipalities as well. The problem is not only in Tallinn, but also in Tartu and elsewhere. I have a question for you: do you agree that the size of a local government depends unambiguously on how it is managed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U56	I certainly don't agree with that. I was quite disturbed by this statement that 25000 inhabitants are the limit from which it seems that the municipalities are starting to cope, at least from the media, that such a statement ran through. This is not nice for those who can cope with a much smaller population. At the same time, I do not think that the structure of local governments in Estonia is optimal; it is certainly far from it. If we could find schemes for administrative reform that are not based on any ax method, my heart would be pleased. I think that the efficiency of the administrative structure is a critical issue for Estonia, but we should not reduce its solution to such standards. 25000 is a very arbitrary argument. Even smaller cities are developing nicely, not to mention that it is a very large number of rural areas. This means a very large territory, where there is already a serious question as to whether democracy works, whether people perceive contact with the rural municipality. This is not a minor issue in addition to efficiency.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U57	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U58	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. Certainly, 200 people in Estonia have a solid idea of the administrative division of Estonia, which would be prosperous, operational and completely fair. Does the Minister of Finance also have a position from his fiscal policy point of view on what would be a fair, nice, functional and prosperous administrative division in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U59	I certainly hold the fiscal perspective back rather than wanting to dictate the administrative structure on this basis. It is a deeper matter of constitutional law and democracy, of how far power should be and what service it should provide. We could still reflect on this in terms of quality of service rather than how many people there are or how good it is for public finances. A small and poor parish may also be very efficient in fiscal terms, but this is not the solution. On the other hand, what happened in Viimsi is not right: for years, debt was collected and lived very well. So the fiscal perspective is controversial.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U60	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U61	The next question is from my colleague, Inara Luigas, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of the Interior! In the Rescue Board, as we have read in the media, an analysis of the closure of 28 rescue teams is under development. The name includes the commandos of which up to 5,000 people live in the area. But from the point of view of the Rescue Board, not only is this reason why the commandos are shutting down. One reason is the change in the organisation of the rescuers that came into force at the beginning of the year, as well as the ability of the rescue teams. One of the maybe closed rescue commandos is the Värska commando in Põlva County. My question is: what cooperation has the Ministry of the Interior and the Rescue Board made with the commandos and local authorities to discuss the forthcoming reorganisations and possible closures?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U63	Thank you for your question. First of all, there is no plan that you mentioned at the beginning of your question when you referred to the closure of 28 commandos. Yeah, there's a lot of speculation in the media. Well, the speculators certainly have their reasons and maybe their fears. In fact, the Rescue Board is currently conducting an analysis of our ability to save lives, which mainly concerns the smaller Estonian rescue commandos. Estonia has historically developed a network of rescue commandos, which certainly no longer responds to the changed economic and demographic situation in 20 years, as well as risk mapping and threat assessments. In order to organize the entire rescue command system and strengthen the life-saving capacity across Estonia, the Rescue Board has initiated this analysis. We're working now. As far as I know, the Rescue Board's management has involved all kinds of experts from the Rescue Board itself and has also spoken to the commandos on the ground. I expect that the result of this analysis will be reasoned and justified, and hopefully the Rescue Board will be able to shape a much more structured vision of how the provision of rescue services should take place in Estonia after this analysis has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U64	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I met personally with the chairman of the Värska Vallavolikogu and also the leader of the Värska commando. They both argued that there had actually been no substantive debate at all and that the planned innovations and analyses would only be heard through the media. At the same time, the Värska Vallavolikogu has made an appeal to you, the Minister of Regional Affairs and even the President of the Republic. I, too, have the text of this appeal. Have you received this appeal, and if so, what is your opinion of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U66	Thank you for your question. It is perfectly understandable, and I would also say, elementary, that Värska's people are concerned about the future of their rescue team. I suppose as much as the Rescue Board has managed to do so, the local people have been informed and have participated in the analysis. If it has not yet been done, it will certainly be done. I'm not the head of the Rescue Board myself. I don't belong to the Rescue Board. It is also the responsibility of the Rescue Board to ensure internal organisation of work. As far as the weaker and smaller Estonian rescue troops are concerned, the situation is clear: there are more than 80 rescue troops in Estonia; 34 of them have 24-hour life-saving capabilities. With the additional request from next year's budget, we will be able to increase this figure considerably, up to 60, according to our estimate. There are quite a number of rescue commandos that cannot guarantee life-saving capabilities. Lifesaving ability, as we know, means four men in one shift, at least three men in one shift. That means that there are about 20 trained rescuers in one rescue command, then we can talk about a strong life-saving rescue command. But the most important thing is saving people's lives. The purpose of the analysis is therefore to strengthen the life-saving capacity in Estonia and to develop the optimal use of resources in order to ensure a uniform rescue service across Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U67	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You rightly said that, in fact, life-saving capabilities must be ensured by directing finance, training commandos, etc. If we do not do so, the elimination of commandos in the area will not increase security and rescue capabilities. At the same time, it must be taken into account that there are differences in each region. There is a large logistics centre in the Värska region, such as the Koidula railway border crossing, as well as access opportunities and very large distances in this area. I have personally proposed that a South-East Estonia Envoy Group be convened. I also ask you that if you send your specialists to this meeting, it would be good if we could see the relevant analyses, find out what analyses have been carried out, what they have been based on and what solutions are.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U69	Thank you for that observation. I am aware of these requests and I expect these meetings to take place in the near future. We can talk about the analysis, but after the Rescue Board has finished its work. Only then can the management of the Rescue Board move forward and start making decisions. The location of rescue commandos across Estonia is a matter within the competence of the Rescue Board's management.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U70	I would like to ask a question registered on the spot, Mr Jaan Apple Tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U71	Thank you, good manager. Minister of the Interior! You have confirmed by answering the first question that there are no closure plans and no one has discussed the liquidation of the commandos. You also claimed that the press speculated and took these figures and topics from a ceiling somewhere. But when you meet the rescuers, it turns out the picture isn't as rosy as you said it would be. I have a specific question about the rescue units of Võnnu and Puhja, who should also receive money from the sale of the CO2 quota. Can you now confirm that these commandos will be preserved within the next three years and that the money that will be allocated from the sale of CO2 quotas to investments will go into the right direction and that these people will not need to be tense?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U72	Thank you for your question. I have not said at all that things are rosy. On the contrary, the situation is not rosy at all. The 34 rescue commands currently have a life-saving capability of 24/7, which means that the absolute majority do not have a 24-hour life-saving capability. If Parliament supports the draft budget submitted by the Government of the Republic, it will be possible to increase this figure to nearly 60 next year, which means 60 strong commandos with life-saving capabilities across Estonia. The question is that there are currently rescue commandos in Estonia with no five men in it. Like I said, life-saving capabilities start with about 20 men in command. It's a four-fold resource. This means not only that there is more money, but also that in certain places in Estonia there are 20 persons who are qualified, who wish to become rescue officers according to certain training conditions. It is not at all easy to guarantee this in very many parts of Estonia. It's really not easy! As you know, a decision has been made during this year: On September 1, Avinurme and Isaac's ability were put together. I think that the people of Avinurme and the region of Isaac will win this decision, because instead of two weak ones, a strong rescue team was created in Isaac and this should ensure a genuine sense of security for the community. We do not need a seeming sense of community security, but really a well-functioning professional's guaranteed rescue capacity. In addition, we need a network of voluntary community rescuers across Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U73	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! Compliance with the standards of the Savior and the ability to save life should not be the only goals in your analysis. The security of citizens depends on the existence of rescue command, as you said yourself, but the interest of entrepreneurs in creating new jobs in the region also needs to be taken into account. For example, the level of insurance premiums for existing companies etc. will depend on this. Will such arguments be taken into account in this analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U75	Thank you for your question. As far as I am aware, the Rescue Board takes into account all the different aspects, which have also been highlighted by several communities in their turnarounds. One good questioner referred here to a municipality that has made a referral. Investments in the business environment The management of the Rescue Board will take into account in its analysis. But your question is certainly relevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U76	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U77	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Against the background of the possible closure of professional commandos, it has been said that voluntary commandos must take up their duties. My question is about voluntary commandos and their funding. Leaving aside the possible new voluntary commandos that are still in the pipeline, I ask: does the budget for next year also provide for the renewal of the existing voluntary commando technical park, better repair of the equipment, the acquisition of equipment, and why not pay for trips?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U78	It's planned. You can say very simply: in Estonia, compared to the developed countries, Europe has clearly not developed enough in terms of voluntary internal security, both in the area of rescue and in the form of auxiliary police officers. I am trying to do everything I can for my part and, of course, the management of the Rescue, Police and Border Guard will also try to encourage volunteering on the ground. Of course, volunteering does not occur on an order from all over Estonia. But there is a great deal that can be done to convince people, especially the leaders of the village and other communities, from different professions, to be a volunteer savior, an assistant police officer, a defence ally defending the country, it is prestigious. It is a matter of status and position, a very sensible duty of a citizen belonging to a community. In Estonia, the number of persons participating in voluntary activities in the field of internal security is 4 to 5 times smaller than in Germany, for example. There is also a significant difference between several other countries. So there is still much room for improvement. Of course, we also want to channel resources into this area in order to support volunteers and give them a clear assurance from the state that they are not alone, that they do not have to act with pure enthusiasm, but that the country appreciates their efforts in their spare time. But yes, volunteers can do a great deal in prevention, solving first-level threats, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U79	I would now like to ask a very brief question, Mr Linde, and a brief answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm gonna keep asking around like this. Which indicator is more important in calculating the effectiveness and efficiency of the current primary rescue command: the number of emergency lights that occurred in the rescue command area during a certain period of time, or precisely the fact that no fire has occurred within a certain period of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U81	There's a lot more than what you just mentioned, good Väino, in the analysis. These indicators reflect the business environment, investment, population, number of challenges, prevention, etc. But everyone can get to know the analysis that the Rescue Board is currently doing, and once it is done, experts and other interested parties can take their stand on whether one or the other decision is justified. Our aim is to write down the arguments as widely as possible so that the Rescue Board can carry out a thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U82	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Question Time is over. Thank you very much for asking questions and, honourable Members, for answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U83	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. I'll call my colleague Eiki Nestor in the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! In order to decorate your day, I will present a bill with my colleagues, Kalvi Tõvi, Kalev Kotkas and Sven Mikser, the content of which is the annulment of § 521 of the Government Act, but in this connection several other laws must be amended. I think we all have a common interest in having taxpayers' money used sensibly and purposefully. Because there is no temptation, the law of the Government of the Republic could also abolish a post where it has not been done in the best way so far, rather it has been a matter of satisfying political or even personal ambitions. But that should not be the responsibility of the taxpayer. In short, our proposal is to abolish the position of Minister of Aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U85	Thank you. Please, colleague Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I am submitting a draft law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. The need for this law is due to the introduction in 2003 of a transitional period for the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia, during which they could continue to apply existing legislation restricting the acquisition of agricultural and forestry land by nationals and companies of other countries. This means that they were temporarily allowed to apply restrictions on the free movement of capital. The transition period is over, the restrictions disappear from the law. However, citizens and companies in the EEA and OECD countries will be subject to a limit of 10 hectares, which will not apply if they are enterprises that have been active in the sector for some time. There will be no change in relation to third countries, and there will also be a restriction on defence interests in border regions and small islands. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U87	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Mailis Reps! Colleagues, please lower your voice!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U88	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I present to you the inquiry that I, along with my colleagues, will present to the Minister of Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. In particular, we want to know more about support for educational expenditure from the state budget. Education support, which stands in the state budget as a provision for local governments, is generally quite low and we hope to get some light, which is precisely the subject of education support for local governments in 2012. We are also interested in what the financing model for the next 2012 education will look like. This is the decision-making power of the Minister of Education and Research. As we know, the decrease in the number of children varies considerably from region to region, and we want to know to what extent the 'empty' school places are taken into account in the educational financing model. Will the funding model tighten up the school network? And, of course, we are also interested in the specified levels of refresher training, educational facilities, school lunches and investment grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U89	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with the law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft law on plant protection and related amendments to other laws, initiated on 11 October, the commission of the Rural Affairs Committee; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Tax Organisation Act and other laws, initiated on 11 October, Lead Committee on Finance; thirdly, in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a draft law amending the Rescue Services Act, initiated on 11 October, Leading Commission, Legal Affairs Committee. Juku-Kalle Raid asks that the Finno-Ugric Support Group's Question Hour for all members of the Riigikogu be held in room 262 immediately after the plenary session. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 94 delegates registered as present, no 7.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U90	Let's go to today's agenda. Yesterday we were in the middle of a debate on § 222 of the Social Welfare Act, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, in the course of the procedure of drafting a draft Act 62 supplementing the Social Welfare Act. We have reached the end of the negotiations; now it is necessary to vote against the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Let's start the voting procedure. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft Act 62 on Supplementation to Social Welfare, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please vote! 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported, bill 62 dropped out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U91	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related other laws initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Let's go to the final vote. May I have your attention, please? The adoption of the draft act requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Please, let's do the presence check again! 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. Good Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related other laws initiated by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Please vote! 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U92	We will begin the third reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote a draft law amending the aviation law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft law, and there are no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U93	We will begin the first reading of the draft law amending the law on national defence and wartime national defence initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like a presentation from Secretary of Defense Mart Laari.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a law amending the State Defence Act and the War Age National Defence Act. This law is short, including three substantive amendments. The first of these is to replace the words'military defence development plan' with'state defence development plan' in the Peace Time National Defence Act. Secondly, references to institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior are deleted from the Act. The third amendment clarifies the wording of the Peace Time National Defence Act as regards the conclusion of international agreements by the Commander of the Defence Forces. One might ask why this law is needed in such a short form? The answer is short. The Ministry of Defence is currently preparing a new development plan for national defence and leaving the term'military defence development plan' in the law would simply not be appropriate. As regards the deletion of references made to the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, this simply brings reality and law into line. The relevant references have already been withdrawn from the various laws since the military-organized entities referred to in the paragraphs have been wound up or restructured in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Interior. A more precise definition of the competence of the Commander of the Defence Forces is linked to the practical need to give this provision, in fact, a somewhat broader but more precise content at the same time. The most important point undoubtedly is the introduction of the concept of'state defence development plan'. In short, this means that we will not only be dealing with military protection in the future, but also with state protection in the wider sense, including by involving other institutions and institutions. This is a modern strategy and is undoubtedly necessary for Estonia. We hope that the entire development plan will be completed by 1 December next year and then presented to the government in order to move on from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of Defense. There are no questions for you. Now I would like to ask my fellow Member of the National Defence Committee, Tõnu July, to present the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading on 19 September. Taimar Peterkop, Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence, took part in the meeting as representative of the initiator of the draft. The purpose of the draft is to update national defence plans by renameing the military defence development plan as a national defence development plan. Military defence is, of course, only one of the essential elements of national defence; in fact, national defence is by its very nature much wider. The right of the Commander of the Defence Forces to enter into international agreements is also clarified and the provisions of the Peace Time National Defence Act and the War Time National Defence Act, which refer to institutions that have already been liquidated or restructured in the area of government of the Ministry of Interior, are repealed. At its regular session, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law 78 be included for the first reading on the agenda of the fourth working week of the Riigikogu by October 12th and the rapporteur was elected on behalf of the committee. The committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be stopped and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 24 October at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U97	Thank you! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 78 amendments on 24 October at 10 a.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U98	Let's go to agenda number five. Good fellows! I appeal to you because the first waitress on the next item has not yet reached the Riigikogu. Now we have two options: either we start discussing the draft or the President takes a break. I propose that I take the chairman's break and wait until the Minister gets here and we can process this bill. Are you okay with that? Thank you! I'm declaring a break for ten minutes. The sitting will be resumed at 2.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U99	Good fellows! The adjourned session of the President is closed at 2.31 p.m. We have reached the fifth item, the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Statute of the International Telecommunications Union and the 2010 Amendment to the Convention, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please attend the Riigikogu Chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U100	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This Act initiated by the Government of the Republic concerns two amendments to the Statute of the International Telecommunications Union. Our proposal is to ratify these amendments. The amendments concern Articles 28 and 33 of the Statute of the International Telecommunications Union concerning its membership fee, including the different membership fee arrangements. The need for change is due to the fact that, due to the global economic downturn, many Member States wanted to reduce their membership fee accordingly in the International Telecommunications Union, leading to a significant reduction in the Union's financial resources. These rules are now being changed so that members can not reduce their membership so sharply, but with a maximum of 15% of the last number of members' membership units. Estonia's membership in the International Telecommunications Union remains 65000 euros per year. Against this background, the International Telecommunication Union is a special UN organisation whose responsibility extends to three main areas: international agreements on radio communications and international agreements on standardisation of telecommunications and developments in telecommunications. The Republic of Estonia has been a member of the International Telecommunications Union since 22 April 1992. Our proposal is to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U101	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation. I would now like to ask Olga Sõtnik, member of the Economic Committee, to present the Chair of the Riigikogu within this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. This draft law was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 26 September. Nearly all members of the Commission were present, but only my colleague, Jaan Õunapuu, as well as the people of the relevant secretariat, were absent. Mr. Minister and Mr. Tõnu Nirk, Head of Communication Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, were invited. Unfortunately, the Minister did not get to the Commission at the time, but this did not bother us from discussing this item. Mr Weasel gave an overview of the draft law; the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs had no questions. At the end of the debate, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to refer the draft Act on the ratification of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and the 2010 amendments to the Convention to the plenary session for the first reading. a On 12 October, the Assembly proposed that the first reading of draft 60 be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 19 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U103	Thank you! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? Nor can you see that desire; negotiations will not be opened. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting 60 amendments. a on October 19th at 12 noon. The first reading is closed with the fifth item being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U104	We will proceed to the sixth item, which is the first reading of the draft Act 81 on the ratification of the European Agreement on the Participation of Persons in the Procedure of the European Court of Human Rights, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I am very pleased to invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet, to the Riigikogu Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U105	Good afternoon. The Government has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft Act on the ratification of the European Agreement on persons taking part in the proceedings of the European Court of Human Rights. This agreement was adopted in 1999 to better meet the objectives of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The purpose of this agreement, and now the ratification of this agreement, is to ensure procedural immunity for those parties taking part in the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights. This means that a State party to the Convention must not prevent the appellant from communicating with that court, including correspondence or participation in the proceedings, nor may the State use statements made by the appellant or other persons referred to in the Agreement before the Court of Human Rights against those persons in domestic proceedings. Estonia will also make two declarations to this ratification. In particular, Estonia interprets Article 4 (1) (a) of the Agreement in such a way that the right to free movement and travel of persons covered by the Agreement is restricted to persons detained in the Republic of Estonia, as such a restriction is necessary to ensure the security, general safety and public order of the state. Secondly, Estonia makes a declaration on Article 4 (2) (a) of the Agreement, which provides that persons covered by the Agreement are not to be detained in the country of transit or in the country where the procedure takes place. According to the declaration made by Estonia, this point does not apply to Estonian citizens or persons residing permanently in Estonia, i.e. that Estonia may observe Estonian citizens and persons residing permanently in Estonia in connection with acts committed before the beginning of the journey or their conviction. This law would enter into force in general and the European Agreement would enter into force with regard to Estonia on the first day of the month following one month after the deposit of the instrument of ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. I now invite the Chair of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft at its meeting on 27 September. It was attended by Minister Paet, who had just spoken as invited, and by Maris Kuurberg, the chief official of the relevant field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Commission raised a number of questions to those present, to which we received appropriate explanations. After receiving questions and answers to them, the committee decided unanimously first to propose to the Riigikogu Board that 81 of the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 12 October. The draft was appointed rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It was also decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the Bureau be asked to set ten working days for the submission of amendments, i.e. 10 working days. 26 October 2010 at 6 p.m. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U108	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U109	Thank you. Honourable speaker! The Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke about two moments that are very important for Estonia and which Estonia intends to implement. Are these, or are all countries that have joined up to do so at international level, called 'exceptionals'?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U110	All States Parties shall have the right to make reservations. This is a common sight in international legal practice. This clause, which the Estonian state proposes, is understandable and clear. The reason why this is being done is that when people have been detained for acts of some kind, if they are either in custody or in prison, transporting them to Strasbourg with an escort, should it arise on the agenda, is an extremely complicated undertaking and countries do not do so. As far as I know from my 12 years of experience, it has never been done in Strasbourg to invite a person in custody or in prison to a Strasbourg court. It is therefore a clause resulting from a practical need. The second statement concerns the detention of those passing through. This, too, stems directly from the constitutions aimed at protecting the citizens of their country. It is also a generally accepted rule, there is nothing extraordinary about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-12_U111	Good waitress, thank you very much. No further questions. And now I humbly appeal to all the political groups to ask whether the representatives of the political groups want to open negotiations. There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. The position of the commission is firm: the first reading must be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 81 at 6 p.m. on 26 October. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is also closed. Good fellows! Our trial today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 2.42 p.m.
