ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Minister of Education and Science. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. I invite Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic, to the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the VAT Act and second, the draft law amending the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when dealing with the above two drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the National Defence Commission s. a On 12 December the National Defence Committee will initiate a draft amendment to § 76 of the Strategic Goods Act and § 9 of the Surveillance Act. The aim of the draft is to bring these laws into line with each other in order to ensure more effective control of strategic goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that many of you expect me to hand over a motion of mistrust now, but instead, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu setting up a committee of inquiry of the Riigikogu to determine the circumstances involved in granting residence permits. As you all know, § 20 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures allows the Riigikogu to set up such committees, and now we see that this need is entirely there. A number of questions have been raised which, in fact or even formally, should be examined by the Minister of the Interior, who himself is rhetorical in relation to these accusations. The task of the Commission would be to examine the circumstances surrounding the granting of residence permits in Estonia. The circumstances surrounding the change in the limit of residence permits in Estonia should be clarified, whether the increase in the quota for the issue of residence permits is linked to possible political corruption and the trade in influence. The aim is also to increase the independence and transparency of cooperation between institutions investigating the granting of residence permits and to identify the facts in the course of the work and to make proposals to the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic as a result of the conclusions. The work of the committee would be fixed-term, i.e. that its work ends after the report has been approved by the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U7	Thank you. I have adopted four draft laws on behalf of the board. If they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the following messages: The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. Firstly, the Committee on Culture s. a draft of the Riigikogu decision " Appointment of a member of the council of the National Library of Estonia," presented on 7 December; the Committee on Culture; second, the Committee on Culture. a Draft Riigikogu decision " Appointment of a member of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia," submitted on 7 December, commission of the Committee on Culture; thirdly, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. a draft law on the amendment of the law on political parties initiated on 7 December, lead committee, Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a a a draft of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network submitted on 8 December to the Commission for European Union Affairs and appointed an Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft regulation. The deadline for the opinion is 12 January 2012 at 4 p.m. I have appointed the Economic Commission as the leading committee of the Action Plan 'Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 Members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassilyev, Eldar Efendijev, Mailis Reps, Aadu Must, Yana Toom, Heimar Lenk, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Deniss Borodich, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luis and Tarmo Tamm have withdrawn their inquiry into the management of families with children submitted on 21 November (No 70), which was today to be answered by Social Minister Hanno Pevkur. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 89 delegates registered as present, 12 missing. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. May I have your attention, please? The National Defence Committee has proposed to exclude item No 4 from the agenda of the Wednesday 11th working week, i.e. the second reading of Bill 120 of the Riigikogu's decision on extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in Iraq. And the second addition is that the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed such an amendment that, for the third item on the agenda tomorrow, it will be the first to give a presentation of the debate on the state issue 'The European debt crisis and its impact on Estonia', the first to be presented by academician Urmas Varblane and the second to be presented by economic expert Indrek Neivelt. With these two amendments, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 81 delegates voted in favour, and no one is against or impartial. This week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U8	Let's start answering questions. The first is the members of the Riigikogu, Peeter Võsa, Yana Toomi, Priit Toobali and Viktor Vassilyev's. a Request for a Report on Compliance with Law in Schools (No 57), submitted on 26 October 2004. Peter Võsa, colleague of the speaker's chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U9	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, There was such an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research: 'Concerning the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act § 44 is the duty of the Director to ensure mental and physical security in the school and to resolve the emergency in the school from § 45. In view of the underfunding of the education system, failure to comply with these obligations by school could have negative consequences for both pupils and teachers. ' In this regard, I and three other members of the Centre Party Group have nine questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U11	Good President! Honourable Riigikogu! I will try to answer the nine questions that have been asked in the context of the question of 'Minimum compliance in schools'. First of all, 'How much do you think that schools generally guarantee a student's mental and physical safety and health during their stay in school? What's the explanation for? " I try to answer at different risk. First, fire safety. Rescue centres assessed the condition of 1346 educational institutions, including pre-school children's institutions, schools and higher education institutions, regardless of their ownership. The evaluation led to a division of educational institutions into four groups. First of all, buildings without significant infringements The proportion of significant non-infringement objects has increased: from 38.3% to 41.6%, or 55 buildings. The number of precepts for educational institutions has decreased from 1946 to 1651, or 15.2%. Between 2005 and 2010, no one was killed or injured in a fire in educational establishments. These have been minor fires, mostly due to negligence on the part of people in the building. Good Riigikogu! In this explanation, I refer to the summary of the surveillance of the Rescue Board on "Fire safety requirements for educational establishments'. Secondly, schools are prepared for possible attacks. This preparation is uneven. The subject has been deliberately addressed in schools in recent years. Individual schools have been preparing emergency plans for nearly ten years. In order for the work to be systematic in schools, the obligation to draw up an emergency plan was included in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. A similar section is also included in the Pre-school Children's Institutions Act and the Vocational Education Institutions Act. In 2009, in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board, for the first time, operational guidelines were developed in the event of a sudden attack and were introduced to all open seminars in four Estonian regions at the beginning of 2010. In the framework of the open call for proposals for the sub-measure 'Faculty, diverse and secure general education', the Rocca al Mare School-led project 'Guide document and model plan to prepare a contingency plan for schools and kindergartens' was supported. The project has produced a set of guidance materials in cooperation with pilot schools and pilot kindergartens, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board and its demining centre and the Ministry of Education and Research. The partners in the implementation of the project are the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments. The material package consists of the following elements: the school emergency plan preparation manual, the kindergarten emergency plan preparation manual, the emergency plan, the emergency tasks of the school crisis team in an emergency, etc. In addition to the guide materials, the study film produced under the project is available with children. It deals with codes of conduct in the event of a fire, a sudden attack, cyber-bullying, etc. There are currently 31 day-old trainings in progress all over Estonia to provide guidance and support to the staff in charge of preparing an emergency plan in their institution. The training courses are free of charge for the participants. Thirdly, health protection. In regular schools, there is a single nurse's position for 600 students, which is regulated by a regulation of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We recognise problems in ensuring health services for children with special educational needs due to their specific needs. Now about the violence in school relations. I rely on the following sources: 'Development Plan for reducing violence for 2010/2014'; A.Markina and B. Shahverdov-Žarkovski 'Estonian juvenile deviant behaviour', University of Tartu Institute of Law; Ministry of Justice's edition "Criminal Policy Studies', Tallinn 2007, etc. Violence in school relations is said to have been experienced by 24% of schoolchildren, 40% of boys aged 12 to 13 and 30% of girls aged 14 years. It must be acknowledged that school violence is much more common in Estonia than in other new Member States of the European Union. There are also more among Estonian children who have been bullied or threatened by their peers on the Internet. With the support of the activities already listed, we hope to solve these problems in society and in the school system. The second question: "What is being done to prevent, respond to, inform and resolve situations that threaten the mental or physical safety of students and school staff? ' On the basis of a random sample of schools' rules of procedure, it can be said that the measures more frequently outlined in the various schools are, for example, a clear formulation of the expected behaviours, agreement on common basic values and principles of operation. Different forms of activities have been designed to bring together workers, students and parents for thematic discussions in order to increase mutual understanding. It also participates in supporting programmes and projects, strengthens supervision of students, uses reconciliation, support person assistance, targeted cooperation with home and specialists in schools or outside of the EU, children's protection and health professionals, police, etc. The rules also reflect, for example, the definition of a clear division of responsibilities and roles within schools, agreements in this area, etc. The design of a secure and cooperative environment and the development of students' competence in healthy lifestyles and safe activities are also important in the national curriculum of comprehensive school and upper secondary school in § 2, 4, 6 and 14. Supporting materials have also been developed to support the implementation of teaching and education, for example at www.oppekadu.ee. Various training courses will be carried out. The third question: "In what way have measures been put in place in schools to protect the mental and physical safety and health of pupils and school staff and to prevent mental and physical violence? ' All schools use measures to protect safety and prevent violence, but according to research data and fire safety monitoring, this is not done effectively in all schools. The Ministry of Education and Research has chosen the safety of the school environment in 2012/2013. Thematic monitoring of the academic year is a priority. Conclusions on the implementation of the legal provisions can be drawn on the basis of the results of monitoring. Question 4: "How is monitoring of students throughout the study day ensured to prevent violence in schools? What is mostly used in schools? " Judging by the rules of procedure of schools, learning is used, for example, under the direct supervision of a teacher, a system of instructors, the supervision of a security officer, a peace class, a long - day group, a monitoring system, commonly agreed values and standards of conduct, and an active discussion of them, agreed principles for intervention and resolution in specific cases, the use of a school bus, the conduct of study trips, and much more similar. Question 5: "How many schools use surveillance equipment to prevent situations threatening the safety of pupils and school staff and to respond to the situation on their territory? Which devices are used specifically, and how has it been resolved? 'The use of surveillance equipment is a voluntary measure by schools and schoolkeepers. There shall be no national record of this. It has become apparent from the school's rules of procedure that they often also reflect the use of surveillance equipment. From conversations with school staff, it can be said that equipment is mainly used at the main entrance and in places where problems have arisen. Question 6: 'The State Court has stated that the obligations of the State must be financed. Since the law obliges schools to implement the measures provided for in § 44 and 45, are these obligations imposed on schools financed and to what extent? § 44 and § 45 of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act provide for three compulsory measures: supervision of students throughout the study day, prudent use of premises, and role-sharing and arrangements for action during an emergency. The first two mandatory measures are basic and the third is literally essential in a childcare facility. None of them necessarily requires high extra costs if an environment that meets health and safety requirements is already in place, which is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper. Directing the development of students' general competence is a natural part of the learning process. As an additional support, all schools can benefit from preventive education programmes developed by the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board and the Road Administration, which are free of charge for schools. Question 7: "How many schools have developed an emergency plan for the school required by law? Do you consider these plans to be in accordance with the law? Would it be possible to get to know them? ' The obligation to draw up an action plan in this respect began to apply on 1 September 2011 (§ 91 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act). The need for such a plan has been made clear by the school leaders and participation in thematic seminars organised in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board and its demining centre has been very active. The Ministry of Education and Research has chosen the school environment as one of the safety features of 2012. As a priority for thematic monitoring in 2008. In the preparation of the surveillance, it is proposed that the Police and Border Guard Board's Crisis Management Office provide expert assessment of the emergency plans of the schools to be checked in accordance with the cooperation procedure. Conclusions on the implementation of legal provisions can be drawn on the basis of the results of monitoring. It will also be possible to design further support for schools on the basis of analysis. Eighth: "Have experts been involved in the development of the school emergency plan? If so, what experts and what subjects? ' Specialists from different types of pilot schools and kindergartens, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board and its mine clearance centre were involved in the development of the emergency plan. The Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board has appointed a contact person for each school responsible for providing advice on appropriate responses. Ninth: 'Do you really think that this bureaucracy will really work? If so, what are the benefits and who will benefit? " Good questioners! This is not bureaucracy! The above is a joint effort by the legislator, executive power, school holders, school collectors, teachers and other school staff to make the school environment safer. It is unfortunately wrong to imagine that this can be done without bureaucracy, without rules, without cooperation, as reflected in the legislation and other acts issued on the basis of the law in question. I very much hope that all the officials, including here in the Riigikogu, who have contributed to the creation of this bureaucracy, have done so with full responsibility and have not placed excessive bureaucratic burdens on schools. And if that is the case, then the benefits are common to us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U12	Thank you very much, Minister. There's a question for you too. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U13	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I see there are no more questions, because your answers were more than exhaustive. Thank you very much. This inquiry was very detailed and the answers were such, but I would also ask you to answer one more general question. How do you generally assess security in schools in Estonia - I do not know whether it will be easier for you to express it according to the five-ball system? Is there room for improvement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U14	Look, when I say something's good, there's this impression that if something happens, it's like something's been overlooked. And when I say that something is really bad, it's like I'm hurting people who've been working for the situation today in different agencies. I daresay we have responsible people both at school and at school. And above all that, the emphasis on reasonable care begins with the safety of the school. This, of course, also starts with state measures, public attention, including questions about members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research. But in the end, everything comes first and foremost to the care needed by schoolkeepers and school principals and, of course, to the attitude of children and parents towards school, their attentiveness to how and with what intentions they go to school, how they come from there. If such a general talk were to be brought down on this answer, then, reading the report itself before going before you, I had the conviction that this area was certainly not neglected. I do not want to say anything, but I say to you: I very much hope, based on this information, that we will not have bad news in this Chamber or in the public or in any Estonian home.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U15	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U16	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Listening to you has the impression that the police, customs, border guards and even the demining centre have more to do with schools than the Ministry of Education and Research. But that's it. I ask you to comment on the news that appeared last week, the content of which was that one in three schoolchildren in Estonia had injured themselves in one way or another at school.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U17	How do you comment on that? Before starting to comment on it, it would be necessary to look into what was really meant when asked and what was meant when it was said. I have asked for clarification in the context of answering this question, too, but it is not as simple as that. The answers to the question of how and to what extent someone has injured themselves, as you can see, are wall-to-wall. Injuring can also be considered when someone has stumbled and fallen and blacked their knees until serious and health - threatening injuries. However, I dare say that the question in question, especially as you put it, may give the wrong impression, just as almost half, or 40%, of young people have been injured in school. That is probably not the case. I believe that Estonian parents can send their children to school more or less safely every morning, and the tragic events that Estonia has experienced in educational institutions are very exceptional. Indeed, they are exceptional and take place when several bad things come together. However, as has already been said, it seems to me today that we have no reason to take emergency measures in the Estonian education system with a view to the overall security of educational establishments. But, as has already been said, the necessary care is always welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U18	Mr Stalnukhin, my dear colleague. You have been in this Chamber for a long time, and you should know that one question can be asked. No more questions for you. Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U19	Madam President! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, I really cannot ask another question, and that is why I had to come to the remote and apologize to the minister here for perhaps being rude when I quoted some news. I thought the Minister of Education would read at least the news about the education system and be familiar with what it says. My aim, of course, is not to recount to him what the Estonian newspapers write about. Anyway, I'm sorry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U20	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. We're done with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U21	We will go to the next question, which is the members of the Riigikogu Aivar Riisalu, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Ester Tuiksoo, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kallo and Priit Toobali on 9 November in the s. a request for information on the decision to terminate the National VEB Fund (No 64). Aivar Riisalu, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U22	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The following question is actually motivated by a strange situation in a society where another unsolved case from years ago has attracted a very clear interest in different groups. Apparently, a number of members of the Riigikogu have been approached with regard to the VEB Foundation and we have decided to start discussing this difficult situation somewhere. The National VEB Fund was founded by decision of the Riigikogu on 20 January 1993. The aim was to consolidate the fund's claims of North-Estonian Share Bank and the Baltic Common Bank on the accounts frozen in the former foreign economic bank of the Soviet Union. The founders of the fund were Eesti Pank and the Government of the Republic. On 2 February this year the judgment of the Tallinn Circuit Court of 22 October 2010 3-04-469, which satisfied the complaints of five companies and obliged the Republic of Estonia to decide within nine months on the question of the reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the certificates of the State VEB Fund. Nine months have now passed to resolve the issue of compensation for claims. On 29 September, the Government of the Republic decided in principle to terminate the State VEB Fund at the meeting of the Cabinet of Government. The claims of the holders of the National VEB Fund certificate shall be met in the liquidation proceedings by the Foundation VEB on the account of the cash received from the sale of its assets. It makes sense. But on this whole issue, we have four questions that we ask the Minister of Finance to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U23	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu. Please, dear Minister of Finance, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to point out that the most substantive procedure on this issue will probably take place during the debate on the draft in question, starting with the Committee on Legal Affairs. Today it was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and it will also be brought to this large hall. I'm trying to answer questions. First of all, the first question: 'What is the volume of VEB assets? How much revenue does the government plan to obtain from the sale of assets? 'This foundation has a claim on frozen accounts in Vnešekonombank, based on a contract for the assignment of the claim between the State VEB Fund and the VEB since 1996. Until now, this requirement has not been tried or attempted to determine the exact market value of this claim on the grounds that the purpose of the foundation has been to obtain money from Vnešekonombank. However, it is known that market transactions have taken place. Owners have been satisfied with this kind of information we have in general. However, the actual market value of this claim can still be established only in the course of the sale. The second question is to what extent it is possible to satisfy the claims of certificate holders on the account of the funds received during the winding-up proceedings of this foundation. That is an unanswered question so far, because there has been no sale. The assets of the Foundation are the claim and the corresponding frozen funds in Vnešekonombank. And I hear these accounts have different statuses. I do not know the relevant details; this information is better known by the foundation and Eesti Pank. Different forms of currency are said to be different there. Thirdly, 'The judgment of the Tallinn Circuit Court obliges the Government of the Republic to resolve the issue of compensation for claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates. Do you think that partial satisfaction of claims on the account of the assets of the foundation is a fair solution? ' You yourself stated that this was a logical solution. I agree with you. Justice is always debatable, it is very different dimensions, but the market value can still be considered a fair value. According to the terms of the National VEB Fund certificate approved by Eesti Pank's Governor Vahur Kraft, the distribution of the fund's funds between certificate holders is a fair and market-based remuneration. The satisfaction of claims secured by certificates shall be carried out at the same time or gradually, in accordance with the terms of the certificate, in accordance with the realisation of the fund's assets and in proportion to all certificate holders. The terms of the certificate were known at the time of the acquisition of the securities corresponding to the holders of the certificate. Pay attention! It's also a matter of justice! This was also indicated on the certificate and there was no legitimate expectation that another compensation mechanism would be implemented. In the present case, the requirements set out in the terms of the certificate have been complied with. All valid certificates on the basis of which the requirements of the holders of certificates have not yet been met shall be reimbursed. Of course, the issue of justice is also very multidimensional. As I mentioned, the question is how fair this fight is that there is going to be a new round against an Estonian state that has not actually created this situation. This situation has been brought about unambiguously by the Russian state's failure to comply with the law. It's the second-round fight of people who actually used the country's opportunities pretty well to earn that money in their own time. Not everyone could do that. Was it access to information, access to socialist property, or some natural resources? Anyway, some such advantage brought them this money. Is this quite a reasonable or a fair battle? I'm saying it's not. Because there is no perfect legal solution. Because one party has clearly created a political solution, conceals information and is willing to deal with the matter only under political conditions, i.e. by resolving the question of the succession of the Republic of Estonia, which we believe has been resolved. I still question justice in this fight. Question 4: 'Next year, the state's second-pillar pension contributions will recover in full, as this is a state promise. In this case, should the State not also fulfil its commitments to the certificate holders of the National VEB Fund? " These are completely incomparable subjects. In 1992 the Russian Federation unilaterally frozen the accounts of Estonian banks in VEB Bank. The Court has established that the Republic of Estonia is not responsible for the consequences caused by the freezing of accounts by the Russian Federation in the VEB Bank. These consequences were caused by the actions of the Russian Federation. On 22 October 2010, the Tallinn Circuit Court decided that the state must decide on the reimbursement of claims of companies guaranteed by VEB Fund certificates. The court ordered the Estonian state to make a decision on this matter, which does not mean that the court would have obliged the Estonian state to pay compensation from the state budget to certificate holders. The Circuit Court considered the certificates to be negotiable on the market and the certificate holder is entitled, according to the value of the certificate, to the assets of the VEB Fund corresponding to the amounts in the form frozen in the Vnešekonombank. The Tallinn Circuit Court takes the view, in paragraph 16 of the judgment, that the decision of the Riigikogu of 20 January 1993 or other legislation does not give rise to the obligation of the state to compensate for claims in the fund from its own funds. When the decision was taken, a certificate was provided for as compensation, which gave rise to the right of claim against the fund's assets, i.e. the Vnešekonombank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U25	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Now the questions. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U26	Clearly, the subject is exciting. And I agree with you a lot as Minister of Finance: the fact that things 19 years ago are under discussion today in this form is kind of funny. But the serious issue is that the current sad money collectors try to say from time to time that the fund has been selectively part of the fund's contributions, the banks first and foremost, however, received money. Some have lost money. As Minister of Finance and even the Ministry of Finance, do you have any information that the claims of the VEB Fund have been arbitrarily satisfied? Is it that some got the money and some didn't get it, or is it an urban legend?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U27	This legend certainly has a basis. The terms of the certificate state that any holder may apply for this money. There's some vague information that some of the owners have gotten money. Why the rest of us haven't gotten it is very confusing. There is also some information that a political approach has been used here too: that the Russian citizens have received the money. Which also shows that we do not have any legal recipes from Estonia. In this sense, it is legal that there is a market-based solution that we cannot obtain this information. The Ministry of Finance is the guardian of this bill because of circumstances, but in fact, Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Justice have still represented the country on this subject, so I think that their role should be greater in the future. They should continue to represent the country; they have this historical memory and information in greater detail. This information also includes, in fact, the banking regulation at that time, which was neither civilised nor appropriate for the market economy environment on which they are currently seeking to rely. In fact, certificate holders, i.e. money owners, knew quite accurately that their money was sitting in a particular bank in Moscow and that Estonian banks functioned essentially as tellers who simply offered a service, but they had no power over that money. At all, this information is well-lettered and well-bodied. I can't imagine how you can make such a decision that the state will simply pay if their currency types alone have been very different, until someone expert said, I don't know how much he made a joke up to gift cards. At the time, currency levels were different.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U28	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Really, this story is pretty messed up. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we heard the speech of the VEB Foundation as a representative of the Foundation, and we have also heard urban legends. There are rumors that a lot of documents have been forged, but law enforcement authorities, in the form of a public prosecutor's office, do not want to investigate in any way or, rather, investigate in any way, to be precise. Has this information come to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U30	There is, in fact, no direct counterfeiting. There are strange stories where sentences are left unfinished, and everyone has such ignorance and doubt. It is clear that the information is incomplete and the other party does not cooperate, the same Vnešekonombank. We will not be able to obtain adequate information, which has actually taken place. Whether the state is a legal successor, whether it has to pay a loan from the Soviet Union, and how much Estonia has the right to the Soviet Union's assets. We certainly do not have any legal disputes on this issue, because the idea of the Estonian state's succession is the basis for its restoration, and the Soviet Union, when it did its debts, made them independent of us. How much did he take away from here or how much it grew? It's all an unraveled bunch, and we don't want to go into this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U31	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U32	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, There's nothing to talk about for a very long time, but it's clearly on the soul. After all, this is an example of how history, strangely almost 20 years later, has started to create certain problems in society, certain divisions and certain question marks, precisely in relation to those times when the re-independence of the Republic of Estonia was still young. It is clear that, as a citizen, and rather as a bearer of ideas of equal treatment, I am of the opinion that, on the one hand, if someone has suffered damage, it must be compensated for, but, on the other hand, there is another contradiction that, if someone has ever taken unduly high risks to make a big profit or, let's just say, to make a profit, are our people today responsible for this? The sense of justice and justice are very strongly interlinked on this issue. At the same time, it has to be recognised that this VEB Fund issue is being carried by very respected people in society today, and it is clear that if the problem remains unresolved, it could create a certain degree of instability. This requirement is being fought for by people who in a sense can be regarded as opinion leaders in society, and it is very sad when, on this basis, we strike another gap in our already fragile social life. It is sad that, at the moment when the Riigikogu has started to deal with it again, we are forced to admit, also at the level of the Commission, that there are very many questions left in the air. In my opinion, we should, in particular, still seek that, when 20 years have passed, all the crimes that have been committed are relatively likely to have actually lapsed. I am not a very big legal specialist, but I know that various financial crimes should end in about seven years, as they say. But as a citizen, I admit that this should be a history lesson, but the truth would like to know, and above all whether all the parties involved in the process were treated equally, and if they were not treated equally, then society could at least find out who was harmed and who left, as they say, in a more secure way. It is clear that, on the basis of the current level of development and financial opportunities in our society, these requirements, as they appear here, cannot be met by a variety of interest, interest and whatever they are. This would create new inequalities and new injustices in society, which we do not need. Let's hope we find the courage to go to the end of this thing at least to figure out what really happened then.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U33	Thank you very much, Mr Riisalu. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U34	The next question is Kalle Laaneti, Deniss Borodichi, Viktor Vassilyev, Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Jüri Ratas, Enn Eesmaa on 10 November. a request for information on the use of the group account submitted (No 65). And please, Mr Kalle Laane, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 November 2011, seven members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Finance concerning the use of the group account. On 25 February 2008, Saaremaa Golf AS Kuressaare was merged with the Group Account Agreement of the City Government. The contract was signed by the assistant mayor of Kuressaare, member of the board of Saaremaa Golf AS and director of the office of AS SEB Eesti Ühispank Kuressaare. In 2010, Saaremaa Golf AS, of which the city of Kuressaare owns 66.2%, had access to the city's limit of 1.8 million kroons of overdraft credit. Paragraph 37 (2) of the Law on the Financial Management of a Local Government Entity provides that, in accordance with the budget strategy, the Council may authorise the Municipality and the City Government to grant loans only to an entity dependent on the local government unit and to ensure the obligations to be assumed by it. In this case, no such authorisation has been granted by the Council. In connection with this, we would like an answer from the Minister for Finance to two questions. The first question is: 'The section of the Law on the financial management of a local authority clearly states that such a decision must be confirmed by the Council. Is this example a violation of the law? ' And the second question is: 'By decision of 17 June 2010, the Commission drew the Council's attention to the fact that in 2009 and 2010 Saaremaa Golf AS had been credited through a group account in the city of Kuressaare. How and under what rules does the use of a group account for local authorities be regulated? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U36	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. And now please, good Minister of Finance, to answer the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! You started with a reference to the Financial Management Act of the local government unit and ask whether this is an offence. The correct answer is that in fact this cannot be a violation of the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, as this law does not yet apply. It will apply on 1 January, and we will amend this law, inter alia, because the existing regulations are clearly in the way of life and conflict. On the one hand, the municipality has so far been banned from providing loans, on the other hand a group account is allowed, even highly desirable, because it is a progressive instrument. The common management and balancing of the cash flow of this logic, in fact, provides for such temporary lending to one institution or another covered by the account. The regulation is certainly controversial in this sense and the Act on the financial management of the local government unit, which enters into force, therefore allows the municipality, from 1 January 2012, to clearly grant a loan to a dependent entity, but, as you rightly state, with the permission of the council. Saaremaa Golf is a unit dependent on Kuressaare City Government and from 2012 the City Government may, with the permission of the Council, allow it to use the city's funds to cover the negative cash flow. So far, there was a contradiction here, as I said. In the regulation, we cannot answer the question clearly either way or the other way. The second question was that the Audit Committee drew the Council's attention to the fact that Saaremaa Golf AS has been credited through the City of Kuressaare group account. How and under what rules are the use of a group account regulated for municipalities? Well, it's covered by accounting rules, isn't it? The municipality is allowed to open and close the group accounts itself and may, at the request of the municipality, include this golf company. Whether it should be part of it is certainly the decision of the municipality itself and, in the case of the tourist centre, as Saaremaa is, it is a completely conceivable political choice and logic. And from the point of view of making such a choice, however, the best solution is the autonomy of the municipality and not the national regulation. We know that Saaremaa Golf AS's money was merged with the Kuressaare City group account from 25 February 2008, but it is not possible to identify and it is not terribly important whether the negative balances of the Saaremaa Golf AS sub-account are financed at the expense of the city, because the group account is used by seven companies and foundations in addition to the city administration. I would like to point out once again that this is as long as Saaremaa Golf exists at the city's discretion as an entity belonging to them and financially dependent on them. I would also like to point out that the group account is not something unique to the Kuressaare City Government; the same instrument that improves management is used by the city of Tallinn, for which only praise is given to it. This group also includes entities such as Tallinn TV and SA In Commune Bonum, whatever it is, for obvious reasons SA Tallinn 2011, Tallinn Industrial Parks AS, once again you can ask whether it should be there, then Tallinn Municipal Family Doctor's Centre OÜ, this is also a question of whether it should be inside, if it is a private limited company, and also the Russian Museum of SA, which I do not know is highly liquid, but apparently the city considers this function to be important and that is its choice and its freedom. There are also NGO Environmental Services and one or two other participants in this account. I would say that the group account policy is fully consistent with the national central government policy that I represent. We have merged with a group account with a total of 450 customers, with 171 public institutions, 229 local authorities, mainly in terms of payments from the Equalisation Fund, plus 49 foundations and the European Commission. This number, i.e. this share, is growing, most of it is being merged. Such a policy is, in my view, important not only for cost savings and more comprehensive financial management, but also reflects the fact that national functions must not be individually fetished or evicted from the general context. I'm referring here to the current unemployment saga. If there has been a relatively or even truly ridiculous political dispute and conflict in Estonia this year, it has been precisely about the group account and the unemployment fund, with which the social partners basically suppressed social dialogue. They closed this channel, forgot all the interests of the labour market and business that they should have represented. It's just that there was an argument for a completely incomprehensible reason, and the government certainly didn't have a chance to give in here. It was a very costly dispute and a very irrational argument. We must not forget any of the key functions of the country. Saaremaa Golf may be raised, but it does not necessarily have to be done in such a way that we are suddenly worried that it has enormous autonomy to place its funds in securities itself or that it must have some very specially protected money, even though it is protected by law. For my part, you could always cry and worry, for example, whether teachers' salaries and pensions are paid out, whether the Rescue Board or the Defence Forces or the police are funded. There was no crying about it, as if it were the unemployment fund, that the money was being spent there to buy some boots, as has been said. To be honest, dear Riigikogu, do not give any more such interviews or speeches! Don't go with this shit! Of course, the partners got themselves behind the media, but it was the victory of Pyrrhos, because it obviously killed their main functions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U38	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Kalle Laane, a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is very good that you also gave a thorough overview of Tallinn's activities. In my view, it is equally deplorable from the point of view of myself that, when it comes to a company, it is a very good business idea to take 5% or 1% of your shares in a local government, you can continue to use a group account and also take credit through a group account. So there's no problem. I don't think that's normal. I understand that if there is a public interest in schools, whatever, kindergartens, yes, but if we are talking specifically about golf or some other sport, it will bring added value, but it is not directly related to local government activities. One minute it's deplorable and the other one's not. What is the future state policy in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U40	I understand the direction of the question, but as a representative of the government, I should not prescribe what Kuressaare as a tourist centre defines as its role. For a very long time, I have wondered about the design of Saaremaa's economic structure and tried to contribute to it. There's always been an idea that we need something like this. I guess at one point in the 1990s that decision fell. And if he already has a city holding there was about 2/3 and he doesn't make a profit, then it's clear that he's dependent on the city. Probably for practical reasons, the city decided that its cash flows would generally run through the account, that the costs would be saved, that the capital would be cheaper. Where there's a limit to breaking the point of the credit limit, you can ask the local government directly. I have no right to interfere here. I'm not elected from there. But I don't think it's a violation. This is a political choice: in circumstances where regulation is ambiguous, a political choice was made, and it was made somewhat specific. After all, Saaremaa and Kuressaare have always defined themselves as a large tourist centre. That's where the golf course idea came from. This was not long, it was thought that it would be an important source of business and tax revenue and would allow additional turnover for the economy of Kuressaare and Saaremaa as a whole. I cannot in any way rule out that it has given it to I do not know the golf life of Saaremaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U41	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U42	Thank you. Good minister! There is also a group account in Põlva City and it has worked very well for about ten years. I think it's a progressive step. But the mind is certainly reluctant to accept it if the local government is not 100% owned by these foundations and companies. If, for example, a private owner participates in about 2/3 of the total, there is a very easy conflict of interest. Do you share this view?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U43	I think that if there are two-thirds of the private owners, you'll be talking not only twice, but more times in the truth. At a time when the government's participation is, as far as I know, two to one, no more, I'm told and clearly dependent on the funds injected by the owners, there is a practical explanation for this. I don't think they need administrative costs or capital costs, I'd rather point to a plan to sell what I've heard about. I don't think they have the intention of remaining the owner of it. Maybe I'm wrong. But I've heard that it still hasn't been able to sell it to other owners, which makes sense. At one point, perhaps the seed of the municipality was indispensable for the creation of this thing, no private investors came, but this time could now be over. I believe this has been discussed by the government. I think I know, but I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U44	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Kalle Laaneti, I would like to ask you to speak with Mr Kalle Laaneti.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a lucky person in the sense that I live in Saaremaa and go to Kuressaare very often. I'm glad there's a golf course in Kuressaare, that's an absolutely smart idea! This piece of land was fixed, a sport came to Kuressaare. I am more than convinced that the golf course has certainly given the Kuressaare economy a boost. However, I do not agree that certain things are being carried out under the leadership of the city of Kuressaare without bringing before the council, without making reasonable decisions, and cannot resolve the confusion that has been around this golf course for a long time. I may not be such a clean party politician. In my opinion, it is particularly in the local community that sensible solutions should be found, so that people sitting at a table who know a little about things and making decisions together, rather than spending their own time on the basis of who bears the mark of the party. Sadly, the people who live in this city are the first to suffer from such a line. The Minister mentioned here that they wanted to sell the golf centre, rather the city's stake in it. I also believe that this participation should be sold because it has fulfilled its role. There's a golf course, the area's fixed, and the city shouldn't be part of it at all costs. And this sale, I think, is also possible if it is arranged reasonably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U46	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U47	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry for land reform submitted by members of the Riigikogu, Peeter Võsa, Yana Toomi, Priit Toobali and Viktor Vassilyev on 26 October (No 56). I would like to ask my colleague, Peter Võsa, to speak to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U48	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On 26 October we really asked the Minister for the Environment this question: 'As a result of the 2010 review of the utilisation and preservation of state assets, the National Audit Office draws attention to the land issue of rural municipalities and cities, which is entangled behind the completion of the land reform. In the process of completing the land reform, the focus will be on clarifying the relationship between land ownership and municipalisation. To this end, in 2008 the Government of the Republic approved the "Principles for the establishment of the State Reserve', which sets out the list of countries from which the State Reserve is formed. The National Audit Office has found that the principles of establishing the state reserve of land are still not transparent to the local governments. In fact, local governments have the impression that the country's land reserve will be formed at random, with the aim of fulfilling the sales plan and increasing the revenue of the state. The municipalities and cities would not be opposed to the land being held by the state if the state were to explain why the land was to be held by the state. The Land Board confirms that it is based on the principles of establishing the land reserve of the State, which is not a public document, when applying for land ownership. ' On this point, we have six questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U49	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. I would now like to ask the esteemed Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U50	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! I will answer the questions in the order in which they are presented. The first question has been put by the heirs as follows: 'Is the completion of the land reform a priority today? ' Completing land reform is a priority for both the Ministry of the Environment and the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic has also identified the end of the land and property reform as one of the objectives of its programme of activities in paragraph 14. In order to complete the land reform, we intend to come before you, good members of the Riigikogu, by amending the law, in order to smooth out the bottlenecks still in the air and to clarify the final deadlines by law as well. The Ministry of the Environment is also actively engaged in the reform of other non-profit countries. As you certainly know, in recent years the size of the countries left in state ownership has increased quite significantly. So the completion of the land reform is getting closer and closer. In order to accelerate the ownership of the land by the Land Office, in 2009 the cadastral units began to be formed on the basis of plan material, as the budgetary resources do not allow all the land units to be formed by surveying. By way of comparison, if, for example, in 2007, the Land Office formalised 3915 hectares of land, then, as of two weeks ago, just over 17000 hectares, or 1888 rural units, have been completed in 2011. So even though the first question was a question that could have been answered in one word and confirmed that yes, it is a priority, I explained it a little bit more. The second question: "Why are the principles of establishing a country's land reserve not publicly available? ' The Minister of the Environment presented to the Government of the Republic the principles for establishing a country's land reserve in October 2008 and these principles have also been approved in the Cabinet. In the same year, the principles for establishing the land reserve were introduced in the Cooperation Council of the Municipalities and the Working Group on Environmental and Rural Affairs, which was also presented on the day of the municipalities and cities in Tallinn and has been introduced to different municipalities later. So anyone who's been interested must have gotten the answers. I therefore dare to confirm that these principles, which have been confirmed in the government office, should also have reached local authorities. Question 3: "What are the principles of the country's land reserve being formed? 'In general terms, the purpose of establishing a country's land reserve is to ensure that the land necessary for the fulfilment of the obligations imposed on the State by law and for the achievement of its objectives is available. The state's land reserve has been defined in accordance with the principle that it is possible to fulfil the obligations imposed on the state by law, be it the State Property Act, the Nature Conservation Act, the Forest Act, the Land Underground Act or other relevant legislation. As a reserve country, land which has become vacant in the course of the land reform, in other words, land or land which cannot be transferred to the property of other persons under the Land Reform Act, shall be taken into the property of the State. Under Paragraph 31 (1) (8) of the Land Reform Act, land that is transferred under the State Assets Act, as well as land that is to be retained or put into use as a reserve, has been retained as a reserve by the State. Since the purpose of the land reform is to transform the relations based on state property into private land-based relations, the purpose of the transfer is to establish the land reserve primarily in areas where interest in the acquisition of the land from the State has been shown under the State Assets Act. The State Forest Management Centre forms a reserve of state land for the purpose of expanding state forest land and also carries out procedures for land of conservation value. For example, land on mineral deposits, arable land over 50 hectares and forests over 100 hectares are to be preserved. The effectiveness of the establishment of a country's land reserve is certainly also demonstrated by the fact that in some cases the cooperation of local authorities has been quite high. Question 4: 'How much do you think it is necessary to identify the local authorities' needs for land? Why hasn't it been done so far? ' It is certainly known to all members of the Riigikogu that when we talk about determining the need for land in local governments, the most important role must still be that of the local government itself. If the state were to say in advance what the need for a municipality should be, it would not be very sensible to do so. In the same way, spatial planning within a specific municipality is still the task of a specific municipality, and in general, municipalities have explained their needs through general plans. As the Prime Minister of the Riigikogu confirmed a week ago, according to the Ministry of the Interior, 195 municipalities have a valid general plan as of summer of this year, and the territory of 12 municipalities is partially covered by the general plan. Last thing I know, the general plan was adopted by the municipality of Orava. At the same time, it is true that the general plan, which should define the needs of the municipalities, is still unfortunately lacking in quite a number of municipalities, despite the fact that, according to the Planning Act, general plans had to be established in the cities no later than 1 January 2006 and in the municipalities no later than 1 June 2007. In order to get a general picture of the needs of local authorities in the area of unreformed land, a map application was created in 2008 at the Land Administration, where all municipalities are able to transfer data on the land covered by applications as well as on the free countries. On top of the card application there, municipalities can also state their interests. However, since this is an additional option for municipalities, not an obligation, local authorities have used this option differently. Not everyone has included their information in the card application and not all local government data is available from there. The Ministry of the Environment and the Land Board have generally implemented the practice that countries for which information has not been provided by local authorities are the subject of a procedure for the ownership of the land and, as a rule, the interest of the municipality in a particular area is also evident during this procedure. But, of course, we will do everything to ensure that local authorities are interested in cooperating with the country, including speeding up the process of completing the land reform. The fifth question of inquiry was this: "As a minister, are you interested in working with local governments to solve land acquisition and development? What have you done or are you doing in this area? ' The prerequisite for working together is, of course, that there is interest on both sides. I can only confirm that the Ministry of the Environment is open for cooperation with local governments. We have also constantly discussed land use issues in the Environmental and Land Affairs Working Group of the Municipal Associations. I have noted above that we are preparing a draft amendment to the Land Reform Act. We have received a lot of feedback from the municipalities on this too. The reason why we have not yet come before Parliament with this bill is partly because the proposals made were quite substantive and all cooperation has been such that we also wish to discuss these proposals with the performers. So that's why it takes a little more time than originally planned. But in any case, we are interested in cooperation, and I believe that this will work quite well both between the local governments and the Ministry and the Land Office. 'How do you explain the situation where the Minister for the Environment has expressed the view in recent years that the municipality does not have a legal basis for obtaining free municipal land for housing, production and business, while at the same time the Government of the Republic has transferred land with such destinations to municipal property? If the responsibilities of local authorities have not changed significantly in the meantime, why has the legal treatment of this issue changed? " The functions of local governments are laid down in § 6 of the Local Government Organisation Act. The Government of the Republic will be able to give land to municipal property in the course of land reform for the purposes mentioned there. The municipal ownership of the land has not been refused for one purpose or another. It follows from the request that a specific land is necessary for the performance of a task of a public nature entrusted to KOKS or another municipality by law and that it is not possible to carry out that task without having a specific unit of land. The principles have certainly not changed. It is true, however, that in previous years, the Minister for the Environment has expressed the view that municipal housing, commercial land or industrial land for the development of a living economy, industrial parks or business development is not granted in the course of the land reform if it is intended to generate income. It's perfectly correct. If you have any further questions, I'd be happy to answer. For the time being, I'm done asking questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U51	Thank you very much, Minister for the Environment. There are questions for you. Let's start with colleague Valeri Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U52	Again!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Land reform...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U54	Sir!? Madam Secretary! Please apologize to the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U55	Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U56	The completion of the land reform will still be worse for the cities. It's on the list when we see how the work is going. On the one hand, the volume of work is higher, but on the other hand, people work more in the city administration. I have a question about that. Have you ever done an analysis of why this is happening today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U57	Ladies and gentlemen, We still have a madam minister, not a mister, let me remind you! Now, I would like to ask you another question, Mr Toom.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U58	A little bit of a messy question. Why is it that land reform takes time? It's still been analyzed. At the moment, land reform is still a little less than 10% of the land without reform. So, generally speaking, the land reform is largely over by now. What remains to be resolved is mostly the most complicated cases. They are often linked to very long and stretching disputes, for example when it comes to co-ownership. The same draft amendment to the Land Reform Act, which I spoke about a couple of times in response to the inquiry, can be said to provide, among other things, solutions to very complex disputes and questions concerning co-ownership. So, yes, there are the most complex cases that require quite thorough legal reflection and the most sensible solutions. I hope I understand your question correctly. If not, you may be able to clarify the following question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary! I want to ask you how familiar you are with the problems of gardening cooperatives. I am thinking above all of the gardening cooperatives in Narva and Sillamäe that are in trouble with the country's land. Some rent these land belonging to the state and look forward to obtaining it somehow. Do you have any kind of hopeful message for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U60	There are a number of municipalities that have approached the government with such problems and have applied for municipal ownership of the countries. The Ministry of the Environment shall submit these requests to the Government in the order in which they are submitted. However, if, for example, the land located near apartment buildings, which is used as a garden land, the municipality must apply for municipal ownership of the land precisely with the aim of continuing to use it in the current way. But yes, applications are settled according to their submission to the Ministry, and they have been submitted in all respects. However, the answer to how many have come from Narva and Sillamäe is what I owe right now. I'll say from memory, I haven't been through the applications of specific municipalities lately, but I should specify that. If you have a detailed question about a particular case, it needs further clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U61	Please, colleague Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U62	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You yourself have worked long and hard in the Riigikogu. I have a question for you: how can we create a situation so that the inquisitors themselves will be interested in the answers to the questions they have asked themselves? Not the way it just happened that after the questions were read, the inquisitor left the hall. How do you think he's gonna be smart now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U63	I am absolutely convinced that the heir who leaves the hall after reading the questions will probably be very excited to follow us from his office, to take notes and to educate himself in this particular area. I'm sure it is. At least I believe it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U64	No further questions. Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U65	Let's go to the next question. This is Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo, Enn Eesmaa, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Leng, Viktor Vassilyev, Inara Luigas, Aadu Musta and Tarmo Tamme, members of the Riigikogu. a Enquiry submitted on 9 November concerning the family medical system of Viljandi County (No 63). Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U66	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address the question to Minister Hanno Pevkur of the members of the Central Party Group. This inquiry does not contain my personal questions, because the good minister knows that I have a firm opinion on the family medical system as well as on our entire health care system. And the minister knows I know he knows. We have solid positions. But this time we are dealing with the issues of our constituents, which they urged us to address precisely to the Minister for Social Affairs. This is about finding a family doctor in rural areas, which is a problem. The fact that the number of health workers will fall to the critical limit in the next few years has been mentioned in the 2010 audit of the National Audit Office and also in the Estonian Human Development Report 2010/2011. There are demographic reasons for this: very many family doctors and doctors at all are retired, while younger people go abroad to work. The Ministry of Social Affairs has developed a draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act, which aims to ensure better quality of general medical care, as well as a replacement system, start-up support, etc. Unfortunately, all of this will give its result sometime in the future, not now. But at the moment, the intolerable situation has developed in Kõpu municipality in Viljandi County, where the family doctor quit on 1 November, and the whole story. There was a competition to find a new doctor, no applications were received. Although Kõpu people deserve to have a family doctor, especially because there are many elderly people there. The name list is small and the area's rough roads often become impenetrable in autumn and winter, but Kõpu municipality has supported the local family doctor in every way. It has covered heating costs, computer training as well as electricity bills in part, as well as inventory costs. The municipality is willing to give every thought to its own people and to ensure that they have a proper family physician. But what you don't have is a family doctor. The residents of Kõpu municipality receive the most essential health care at the primary level only if they travel to Viljandi to the same pensioners who do not have gas money and often do not have a car. And if there's some kind of jugul standing under a shed somewhere, it might not even sound. This is the situation that people are, but there is no medical care. And it is totally unacceptable in a civilised society, however, that people do not receive basic medical care at the primary level. Five questions have been formulated in the inquiry, which the voters of the Centre Party from Viljandi County wanted to put to Mr Pevkur through my mouth and to hear the relevant answers. This is the kind of question I have handed over and I hope to hear the appropriate answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U67	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. I would now like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U68	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs, including the good Viktor Vassilyev! Thank you very much for your eloquent and emotional introduction. Now I'm gonna start going through the questions. The first question is: "What will happen to the list of outgoing family doctors if the competition fails to fill the family doctor's position? ' Under the Health Care Management Act, it is the task of the County Elder to arrange for the temporary replacement of family doctors operating in the county on the basis of a list of family doctors. I would also point out that, as a result of the general medical care financing agreement, each family doctor has appointed a temporary replacement to replace the family doctor during his temporary absence. If the family doctor serving the list renounces the list or is another unexpected situation which, for some reason, cannot be resolved by a replacement appointed by the family doctor, the mayor must actively seek a replacement for the family doctor in accordance with his statutory duties. How the mayor technically arranges for the replacement of family doctors is left to the issue of internal working arrangements. For our part, we can confirm from the Ministry that one of the most effective ways is to communicate with the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu, for example, you can submit inquiries to the Register of the Health Board to find suitable doctors. And it is certainly possible to take other practical steps to find the necessary family physician. The second question: "Who will bear the responsibility if the list of family doctors leaving the office is not covered and the new doctor cannot be found? " As stated in the previous reply, according to the law, it is the task of a rural elder to arrange for the temporary replacement of family doctors operating in the county on the basis of a list of family doctors. If a family doctor or his/her replacement cannot be found by means of a competition and other measures, care must be provided with a temporary replacement doctor until a new family doctor is found. A rural elder is also entitled by law to assign persons who do not have a family doctor to another family doctor's list if there is no other way out. The third question: "How will access to primary care in rural areas be ensured in the event of failure to complete a family doctor position? " As in the urban area, one could answer. There are the same rules across Estonia, and these rules are laid down in the Ministry of Social Affairs' Regulation 'Work Manual for Family Doctors and Health Workers working with them'. The particularities of rural areas are certainly small lists and one possibility is to consider merging such lists. The fourth question, specifically about Kõpu rural municipality: "What must a resident of Kõpu rural municipality do, since it is not possible to receive medical care in the immediate vicinity of his place of residence? ' As far as we know, since 1 November 2011, the temporary replacement doctor Enn Sepp was appointed as the temporary replacement doctor and was ordered by the Viljandi County Elder on 31 October 2011, the number is 508 and the family nurse has been appointed Merle Vaher. The family doctor practice in Kõpu municipality is open on Mondays from 8 to 16 o'clock, on Wednesdays from 9 to 18 o'clock and on Fridays from 9 to 16 o'clock. At the same time, the visits of the doctor and nurse are divided so that the doctor receives them on Mondays from 8 to 12 and Wednesdays from 14 to 18, while the family nurse receives them on Mondays from 12 to 16, Wednesdays from 9 to 14 and Fridays from 9 to 16. And since Enn Sepp has been appointed as a temporary replacement physician, the residents of Kõpu municipality will, of course, have the opportunity to contact Enn Sepa in Viljandi, where he works permanently. In addition, as far as we know, there are insured persons in Kõpu rural municipality list 699. We know, and I believe that the good inquisitor who read the question here knows that 1200 insured persons are considered to be the minimum threshold for the operation of family medical practice. While analysing the geographical location of the names, we have come to a pretty clear belief that the linking of service areas and small lists should be more active than has been the case, it would only be possible to ensure good medical care for all patients. Very small lists could only be confirmed in the future if, due to the geographical nature of the municipality, this is the only option and there are no alternative solutions. Question 5: 'One of the measures taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs to better manage primary health care is the task of bringing together the organisation of primary health care. What rights and obligations are added to this reorganisation by the Health Board? 'The regulation that centralises the primary health management function will be transferred to the Health Board. These tasks are to organise a competition for the establishment of a list of family doctors, the approval of lists of family doctors and service areas, the temporary replacement and supervision of family doctors. As far as substitution is concerned, according to the law, the family doctor must inform the County Elder of the temporary replacement within 10 days of the start of the replacement. Thus, the family doctor is obliged to arrange for his replacement. In addition, the same law provides for the task of a rural elder to arrange for the temporary replacement of family doctors operating in the county on the basis of a list of family doctors. In practice, there are problems with the application of these provisions in interpreting them, there is no final consensus, which is then obliged to arrange for replacement. As a result, the draft provides that, in general, the family doctor will provide a replacement for both long-term and short-term replacement when the organisation of primary care is concentrated at the Health Board. The short-term replacement is up to three months and the long-term replacement is up to one year. In addition, the draft allows the Health Board to arrange for the replacement of a family doctor if necessary in the event of the death of a family doctor or other unforeseen circumstances where the family doctor is unable to find a replacement as a result of his or her medical condition. According to the Ministry, the obligation imposed on the Health Board to organise the temporary replacement of family doctors by the creation of a replacement system for family doctors and nurses should be reconciled in the future. The aim is to develop a functioning system so that the state can support family doctors and nurses in finding replacements if they fail on their own.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U69	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U70	Thank you. Good minister! It was very nice to hear such a good answer that the mayor was responsible for everything. The mayor arranges, the mayor knows, the mayor decides. And it all ended with the fact that the Health Board is going to deal with it. It is also good, of course, that the residents of Kõpu municipality still have a family doctor even three times a week. But if these lists are put in place for larger and smaller ones, then a smaller list will probably be created for geographical reasons. He is relatively isolated from larger centres of attraction, but people on such smaller lists still need to receive medical care even if the family doctor cannot be found. Is it possible, for example, to arrange for these residents to travel to a family doctor elsewhere at the expense of any available resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U71	Thanks for asking. Coming to the beginning of this question, the reality is that according to the law in force, the mayor arranges it. What we really are proposing is that, instead of making it the responsibility of the Health Board, it would also be a central responsibility. Today we also released news that 15 doctors and 21 nurses have agreed to begin piloting the replacement system. This creates optimism and hopes that the replacement system can also be activated in such a way that, for example, there is a Kõpu municipality or some other place where the family doctor for whatever reason leaves the list of patients without service, it is possible to find a replacement centrally. Will the transport costs be reimbursed? That's not what we've been planning so far. As regards, in general, the establishment of lists in the future, this must be done on the basis of a clear understanding that, of course, a person must be served as close as possible. At the same time, this 'as close as possible' must also be reasonably effective. In other words, we cannot expect a family doctor with a list of five hundred people to be able to meet his daily duties in a high-quality manner. That's the principle. The residents of Kõpu rural municipality will be much more satisfied if the reception of a good family doctor is guaranteed three times a week and the availability of a sister is further and practice is still working instead of keeping the office open for a week with a 690-700-person list and risking that the family doctor cannot have a proper study done because he or she does not have enough patients. He can't guarantee proper replacement or anything else. So it's probably a reasonable compromise to stay within the same 1200. Above all, it should be the people of small rural municipalities who benefit from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U72	Ladies and gentlemen, Remember, there is only one question! You've been here almost a year! You will not be able to ask any more questions. No further questions. Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U73	The last question is the inquiry submitted by the Riigikogu members Neeme Suur, Kalvi Tõu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jaak Allik, Heljo Pikhof and Helmen Küti on 17 November concerning the financing of the substitute home service (No 68). Please, Mr Neeme Big, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U74	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Good listeners! We have submitted an inquiry into the financing of the substitute home service. This is mainly due to concerns about compliance with the Social Welfare Act. The Social Welfare Act provides that the service provided to a child entitled to a substitute home service is financed from the state budget. The situation is in any case changing in a positive direction. In Estonia, 21 family houses are being completed in different county cities, and in this connection, the amount of money needed to provide replacement home services will certainly increase. Increasing personnel costs, increasing economic costs, but unfortunately, the corresponding increase is not currently seen in the state budget for next year. Therefore, the provision of replacement home services may and may continue to be at risk. Hence the concerns of the signatories in this area. We have asked the Minister seven questions and we hope to have good answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U75	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. Once again, good Minister of Social Affairs. Come here!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U76	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! Question number one: "How big are the families of the substitute homes? ' The current law, or the Social Welfare Act, provides that the family of a replacement home is made up of up to six children assigned to a replacement home service. We also know that there are certain differences. Until 1 January 2010, the family of the replacement home could consist of up to 10 children, from 1 January 2010 to 1 January 2015 there is a difference that the family may consist of up to eight children. However, it should be borne in mind that, as of the end of 2010, we have reportedly had eight children of average family size, but we must not forget that some replacement homes have not yet moved to family-based replacement care. The second question: "Does the size of the families of replacement homes change in the institution providing the corresponding replacement home services to which the families are to be built? " The short answer is that the size of the family of the replacement home is now based on the size of the family provided for in the Social Welfare Act. And when building family houses, these provisions have also been taken into account, I am thinking both of the provisions currently in force and of the amendment that will enter into force in 2015. The third question: 'What is the cost of the replacement home service for one child on the service? ' The national bounty is up to EUR 7680 per calendar year at the price of the service up to EUR 640 per calendar month. By way of derogation, for a child less than three years of age and for a child with a disability, this amount shall be higher: EUR 12276 per calendar year for a service price of up to EUR 1023 per calendar month. Question 4: Does the Ministry of Social Affairs envisage an increase in the price of replacement home services in connection with the transition to the family home system? " Yes, we foresee an increase in the price of replacement home services, not directly related to the transition to the family home system. We would certainly like, and we also see the need to increase this amount more, but we are now preparing a change that will increase by EUR 180 per year, or about EUR 15 per month, per child. This should also help to mitigate recent increases in electricity and other prices. The fifth question is a bit similar: 'Does the Ministry of Social Affairs envisage an increase in the amount of money needed to buy replacement home services in connection with the transition to the family home system, and if so, how much? " The provision of services in family houses is expected to become more expensive,'for that is no secret. But rather, we can see that this overall increase depends more on public utility costs, i.e. the price of water, heating and electricity. This is not a direct consequence of the transition to the family home system. This amendment has been prepared for a long time. Houses have had to be designed as energy-saving, so we are trying to keep economic costs as low as possible. At the same time, it is clear that there is pressure on the growth of the bounty. Question 6: "Which funds does the Ministry of Social Affairs intend to cover the necessary cost increase? ' If you look at the statistics for the last four years, we have reduced the number of children in replacement home services, the budget has almost remained the same. The planned increase for next year is 15 euros per child, which means more than 200000 euros a year, or more than 3 million Estonian kroons, this amount is planned for the budget. And if these next slopes have to come, they'll come the same way. As was the case this year, the substitute home service will be a service financed from the state budget next year. And the last question: 'Does the Ministry of Social Affairs foresee an additional burden on municipal budgets in connection with the transfer of replacement home services? ' No, we don't see that coming. So far, replacement homes have been managed by the state through rural governments, and these costs have all been seen. The municipality will always have the opportunity to make an additional contribution. And if we take 2010 for example, the additional support from local authorities for the replacement home service was 12.4 million kroons in 2010, or 791000 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U77	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Any questions? Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. My question partly relates to this, not directly to the houses that the state is building. The 2012 budget was also subject to an application by SA Maarja Village, which concerned EUR 280000 in order to get one house ready. Unfortunately, this was not satisfied during the procedure. Here's the question. I have learned in contact with the manager of Maarja Village that the Ministry has repeatedly confirmed to him that if an application is submitted in connection with the project, the Ministry will ensure its participation. Is it on? Can the Ministry help the SA to secure the ownership of the Maarja Village if they submit a project application?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U79	As far as structural support is concerned, we have taken the direction that our first objective is public replacement homes, which are much worse off than the village of Mary, which you mentioned. With these services, we will switch to family-based models. Mary's village already has family houses. Yes, there has been talk with the leaders of Mary's Village that the country might come to the aid of a little help. I have also replied in this Question Time that we have made provision for it both in 2010 and 2011. Now, when it comes to whether all the own contribution will be covered, it depends very much on the possibilities available to the Ministry at the time of application. I believe that there will certainly be greater opportunities in the next structural period starting in 2014. We'll see, we'll see! It's very difficult to predict until then. We do not currently have either the amounts of the state budget or the free Structural Fund money. Unless, now, in the context of a project already under way, there is nothing left unfinished, for whatever reason, either the plan is unconfirmed or the construction contract fails or whatever. Then you can come back to the subject early. When we are talking about the next structural period, we must wait for the European Commission's proposal on how much funds will be allocated to us. Then we can see what opportunities will arise. But the good will to help Mary's village is there. To make sure that this year, or any other specific year, we support with a specific amount, unfortunately, I cannot today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U80	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your answers, Minister. I would like to make it clear that, as you said, the average family size is eight. If we now look at the direction of six children in the family and at these homes, then there are the utilities and staff costs that are still needed. As I have heard from the answers, you do not see an increase in costs in this regard. It doesn't seem logical, it seems that everything should get much more expensive because there are more people at work, there are more buildings. Is it very well considered, if we mean the perspective for 2013 and 2014?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U82	In 2013 and 2014, we still have eight children in the family, or the situation is the same as we have today. There will be no direct pressure in this regard in the coming years. It is clear that if we switch to the six children that are currently in the law, the pressure on funding will certainly increase. It is natural that if there are now eight children other than family parents and auxiliary staff, when the number of children decreases, the need for parents will increase. On the other hand, if I look at the statistics that in 2006 there were children in replacement homes in total 1621 and 1215 in 2010, the number of children has now fallen by 400, but the number of support staff for growers, parents, has not substantially decreased. If we look at these institutions, there have been two more in the last two years. There were 35 institutions in 2008, 36 in 2009 and 37 in 2010. And the number of families in them is quite stable: 147 families. This is the right direction anyway. As the number of children has fallen, and the number of families has remained the same, the number of children in the family has decreased. If we succeed with the same logic in trying to further reduce the number of these children in order to reduce such institutional care, then it can be assumed that there will be no need for additional staff in 2012. The increase in the need for staff and additional salaries may not be very significant. But, of course, as far as utilities are concerned, their growth is inevitable. And we admit that the EUR 15 that we are currently planning to add in one month will help to alleviate the situation a little, but there is no doubt that replacement homes are in a pretty tight position to provide services. There's nothing out there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U83	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague Neeme the Great, the speaker, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U84	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last 20 years, the social and economic environment in Estonia, as well as throughout Europe and the world, has changed and is changing. Some, in Estonia, enjoy the free market economy and the choices of freeing up borders, others groan as a result of social stratification and suffer from the lack of access to social protection. Some travel abroad to rest there or even to acquire real estate, others to find decent work and pay and not to lose their homes here in Estonia. We know the situation. Unemployment, but also underestimation of labour, especially in rural areas, and the resulting emigration, as well as the separation and breakdown of families, alcoholism, domestic violence and poverty, the lack of or lack of families, all of these are everyday problems that a country needs to find effective methods to address. The saddest thing is that the problems listed are getting worse, not getting better. The most common victims of social crises are those who are unable to defend themselves, and these are children. Ensuring a decent childhood for children is the first task of society in the social field and the first order of citizens to the public sector. All children need attention, but special care must be provided by the state for children who do not have parents who need special care or who have lost parental care. In this situation, replacement home services and replacement care services offered for public funding are particularly important. The fact that the need for a service is not reduced is also a statistical truth. The statistics of the Ministry of Social Affairs include the first registration of children without parental care and in need of help. These data are collected from local governments and they show us that when 1680 children were first registered in 2006 without parental care and needing help, the number was 2054 in 2010. Thus, in recent years more than 2,000 children have been registered each year without parental care and need help. The conclusion is one: the need for orphanages, i.e. replacement home services, may decrease in the long term, but will not disappear. Its importance will not go away. The Estonian state has taken the course of family-centred replacement care. Not one moment have I ever thought this direction would be wrong. The concept of the protection of Estonian children was already drawn up in 2005. It says that it is desirable to introduce a model of care that supports more and more families. This concept has also been followed up. A new development plan for children and families has been created, which talks about a family-centred approach, while the development plan for the Ministry of Social Affairs talks about building child-friendly family houses. All this is very right, the only question is how quickly we can move to a family-centred approach. In 2010, there were 1215 children in replacement homes, and 337 children in family care. In addition, 242 children had been taken in custody and 137 children had been adopted. All together, there are 1931 children. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U85	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U86	62% of these were in replacement homes. Of these, 10% were orphans and 90% were orphans without parental care. Once upon a time, 40% of them had a special need. The question is how quickly we will be able to achieve all these excellent goals in the development plan for children and families and how quickly we will be able to re-configure our replacement home service to a family-centred model. At present, the statistics are such that the number of children on replacement home services is decreasing. While in 2006 there were 1621 children on replacement home services, in 2010 1215 and the trend is in decline. At the same time, we see that the number of children in care families is decreasing: in 2006 there were 551 children in care families, and in 2010 there were 337 children in care families. The number of children in adoption families and custody families is also decreasing. In general, it can be concluded that as the total number of our children decreases, the number of children cared for outside families will also decrease. At the same time, we can see that the number of children who are first registered without parental care and need help is again increasing significantly, as social problems are increasing. Social problems are increasing because parents are looking very far for work or are unable to find work. The result is social misbehaviour. Daily social work has revealed that more and more children are actually at risk. While fully approving a family-centred approach, it must be recognised that inpatient replacement homes are crucial. In the medium term, there is little to offer them an alternative. This is a very big job that the Estonian state and the Ministry of Social Affairs are still facing in introducing a family-centred model. Until then, replacement homes must be funded in a way that ensures good livelihood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U87	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U88	Ladies and gentlemen, to speak in the free microphone round, please register after my hammer strike. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, on the spot when you chose the 'Word' key!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U89	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who will hear me now, and the honourable people who will read the verbatim at one time! I want to tell everyone today who wants to hear who has ears open, that there are certain aspects to the issue that we are now interested in all of what is going on in the press and what is being spoken about in our homes. This is precisely a scandal of residence permits. I'm not going to repeat everything that's been written and spoken. For me, it is particularly appalling that it was the leaders of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union that sold their fatherland piece by piece. But there is another aspect that has been said very little. In fact, there is something that has now been set to be improved in this situation, to take some action. Yes, of course, a situation in which residence permits have been granted for money is completely unacceptable, something must be done. But is it really the way people are trying to do now that some 65 residence permits are taken and cancelled? I believe that the dozens of officials involved in issuing residence permits are competent officials. They know the law, they have certain arrangements and regulations, and somehow it seems to me that these residence permits were legally issued correctly. All the more so, somewhere there must have been the signature of our esteemed Prime Minister. But, of course, something has to be done. If it is claimed that the gentlemen who received the residence permit have not fulfilled any obligations to invest, they can always justify themselves by the fact that there is a hit, the conditions of Estonia do not allow the business to be done as they would like. They'll find a thousand reasons. I'm afraid I'm not just gonna be able to cancel these residence permits. I do not know whether the Government of our Republic has thought about the foreign policy follow-up that could result from the revocation of the residence permit of several dozen citizens of another country. I honestly do not remember in recent years the kind of thing about international politics where tens of foreign residents are essentially expelled from the country. Another thing, of course, is whether they live here physically or not, but legally, it looks just like that. I don't know how the Russian Federation swallows such a thing, allegedly it's his citizens. The Russian Federation is not only right, but also a duty to protect its citizens, and I fear it will. Let us recall what happened to the Russian pilot who was detained in Tajikistan. Russia began sending out hundreds of tajiks. And illegals were expelled from there, but if we cancel several dozen residence permits, I fear the Russian Federation will start looking for Estonian residents with Russian residence permits, who will be subjected to the same repression. I don't know if the Government of the Republic has thought of another aspect. Namely, residence permits have been claimed to have been obtained by "grey" individuals who run their business in an alternative way. They have a certain business culture, certain concepts, I'm afraid they think they've done the right thing. They were required to comply with certain obligations, they handed over to the state what was the state's, they transferred commissions to the companies, and now they fail. May I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U90	I can't!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U91	We need to think about the consequences, because in any case there may be repression against individuals or certain signals against our country. Given that Estonia wants to be an independent and respectable country, we should still consider the international consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-12_U92	Thank you. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.11 p.m.
