ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-21_U1	Good fellows, good morning. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the third working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-21_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Social Democratic Party Group submits a draft amendment to the Tax Administration Act to the proceedings. It has become apparent that due to a lack of information, people of predominantly retirement age have paid more taxes to the state than they should have. Now, this inquisitive has probably led many of them to both the Social Insurance Board and the IRS. However, the current Tax Administration Act gives them the possibility to recover the more paid tax to the State for the last three years. We propose that this period should be five years, for the simple reason that these provisions of the Income Tax Act began to apply from 1 January 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-21_U3	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-21_U4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns the prospects of the price of electricity and three questions have been raised. However, the preamble is such that, as we remember, on April 1, 2010, the electricity market for large customers in Estonia was opened and the Estonian price area was opened on the Nord Pool Spot power exchange. What has happened since then? Optimists thought that the price could rise by around 10%, in fact, the price increase has been 40%. We ask what the Minister for Economic Affairs sees as prospects for the price of electricity. The Minister for Economic Affairs has, in fact, already been asked in the press, and he replied very roundly to save energy. That is very correct and good advice. But we think that the Minister for Economic Affairs, along with his ministry apparatus, should still anticipate these things, monitor the opportunities that are taking place on the market, and then give recommendations from the state and also act in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-21_U5	I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-21_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I will transfer the draft law amending the Liquid Fuel Act to the Riigikogu for discussion and, if possible, adoption as a law. I would remind you that, just before the elections, a few weeks earlier, at the end of February, the law amending the Law on liquid fuel was passed and that guarantees were given for both the handling of fuel in the Republic, which is EUR 100000, and the removal from excise warehouses, which is EUR 1 million. There were differences. In the case of a guarantee of EUR 1 million, the tax administration will have the possibility to reduce the guarantee from 2013 when the company has fulfilled certain requirements, from its reputation of integrity to the absence of tax debts, etc. However, if the guarantee is EUR 100000, the tax administration will have the possibility to reduce the amount of the guarantee immediately. Such a difference may be against the Constitution and may mean unequal and disproportionate treatment. In this context, we have initiated an amendment which would give the tax administration the opportunity to reduce the EUR million guarantee, if certain conditions are met, as soon as the law enters into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-21_U7	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Tamme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-21_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I am going to file an inquiry with Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister for Finance. The inquiry concerns municipalities, the OECD report and land tax changes. Our concern is that between 2008 and 2010, the municipal income base decreased by 18% and, as we read in the coalition agreement, the share of land tax belonging to the municipalities is being reduced. Our question is to replace the revenue forgone, which belongs to the local governments. The question is also where the financial autonomy of the municipalities will be lost, because the land tax is 100% municipal tax. At the same time, the OECD has recommended in its report that land tax should be increased and taxed according to value.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-21_U9	Good fellows! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. There's no more calls. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed the leading committees to them: the draft Riigikogu decision "Constitution of the Special Committee on Auditing the National Budget' submitted yesterday to the Constitutional Committee; the draft Riigikogu decision "Constitution of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' submitted yesterday; the lead committee is the Constitutional Committee; the draft Riigikogu decision "Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' submitted yesterday; the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' submitted yesterday; the commission is the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the deadline for submitting amendments is s. a 29 April at 16 a.m.; the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe" submitted yesterday to the Committee on Foreign Affairs; the commission is the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the deadline for submitting amendments is s. a 29 April at 4 p.m.; the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Establishment of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia" submitted yesterday to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the leading committee being the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the deadline for submitting amendments is s. 29 April at 4 p.m.; the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe" submitted yesterday to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the leading committee being the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the deadline for submitting amendments is s. a 29 April at 16 a.m.; the draft law amending § 16 of the Road Act, initiated yesterday by the Social Democratic Party Group, is the Committee on Economic Affairs. The members of the Riigikogu formed a group of Estonian-Latvian and Estonian-Italian parliaments yesterday. Today, good colleagues, the opening meeting of the Estonian-Türkmenistan Parliamentary Group will take place in this Chamber after the plenary session. Immediately after the end of the sitting, the inauguration meetings of the Orthodox Envoy Group and the Association for the Protection of Human Rights in the North Caucasus will also take place in this Chamber. We want strength for all connections and we expect active participation! Good Riigikogu! In connection with the Question Hour of the Open Day of the Riigikogu in this Chamber on Monday, I ask you to empty your tables! Good fellows! We're conducting a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Good fellows! I have one more piece of information for you. The Riigikogu and this Chamber of Plenary Sessions have been serving us for six years and assisted by Peep Pihlak, the advisor to the Board of the Riigikogu. Her service relationship will be over next week, and today she will be here with me for the last time. I believe you will join me and we thank Peepu: thank you! [[Let's hear it.]] I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 10.11.
