ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching a draft law on strategic goods today. Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the point in the autumn budget debate that there is not yet a budget in the Riigikogu, but we already know that the Estonian state is still so thin that the revenue from the budget is not enough for wage increases in several important areas, there is not enough for teachers, there is not enough for rescuers. Not only do important officials have to accept a wage freeze in the face of price increases, but the budgets of cities and municipalities are still being cut. There is nothing to improve the situation of this thin country other than the fact that it gives those people with higher income the opportunity to show solidarity. The Centre Party once again comes up with the draft Act amending § 4 of the Income Tax Act, which gives people with higher incomes the opportunity to pay a higher tax rate. This level of taxation, i.e. one step higher, would constitute a compound progression where only the proportion of income exceeding the threshold would be taxed at a higher rate. Given the current deductions from the income of each person, the transition from the first to the second tax rate takes place when the monthly income is EUR 1518. With this higher tax rate, the Estonian state would win 180 million euros in one financial year. This is enough money to help teachers and rescuers, it is enough to support Estonian municipalities, and it is an essential decision to put the Estonian state at the end of its thinning. Thank you for your attention and I hope that this draft will go further in the debates than the drafts initiated by the opposition normally do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U6	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Centre Party Group have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Education Jaak Aavikkool. The point is that from 1 September 2011, students in the first, fourth, seventh and tenth grades will learn according to a new curriculum. The revised curricula also require renewed teaching literature. The website of the National Examination and Qualifications Centre states that the implementation of updated national curricula does not necessarily lead to the immediate replacement of all teaching literature; this is done gradually and according to the need, in different subjects, taking into account the timetable for the implementation of the curricula and the scope and nature of the changes made to the syllabus. However, the lack of new textbooks has unfortunately hindered teaching. The lack of teaching literature has created a great deal of additional work for teachers, as lessons need to be prepared using old textbooks and other available tools. In many cases, teachers' working hours have stretched to ten hours and even twelve hours. According to the publishers, printing some textbooks takes time until next year. The lack of a textbook has led to a situation where a school absent student is unable to acquire the lessons independently. In this regard, we are asking five questions from Mr Avikkoum, to which we are awaiting an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Since today I don't have any messages to give you, please, let's do the presence check! Currently 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 10. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Board did not reach a consensus on the draft agenda for this week at its meeting. Jüri Ratas, Vice-President of the Riigikogu, did not agree with the proposal of the Monetary Commission to carry out, one week, two readings of Riigikogu's draft decision 'Ensureing compliance with the obligations arising from the European Financial Stability Fund Framework Agreement and its amendments', i.e. to carry out the first reading of the draft on Tuesday 27 September and the second reading on Thursday 29 September. According to § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, a member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu has the right to put this matter to a vote in the Riigikogu plenary. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Jüri Ratas, to exclude the 90th reading from the agenda on Thursday 29 September. Please vote! 22 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee has proposed that the first reading of the Bill 95 on Supplementing the State Budget Act, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, be the second item on the same day on Tuesday 27 September of this working week. Secondly, the Committee on Rural Affairs has proposed to delete the first item on the agenda of Wednesday 28 September of this week, the third reading of the draft law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic. Together with these improvements, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 22 against and 1 abstention. This week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U8	Let's start answering questions. The first question has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodich, Kalle Laanet, Valeri Korb and Rainer Vakra on 14 June. The issue of questioning is the legality of mining. I would like to ask my colleague Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U9	Madam President, thank you very much. Good minister! My good colleague Kalle Laanet is plagued by mining and its legality in Saaremaa. Let me briefly introduce the question. Mineral mining is governed by laws that require a tight bureaucratic sieve to open up a career and a later payment of mineral tax. However, in the light of the following problem, it is unclear whether these regulations exist and, if so, why they do not work. For example, people in Saaremaa know how to sell mineral resources on their land, whether soil, gravel or sand, without any difficult coordination and without paying any tax. The Environmental Charges Act provides that, in the event of the construction of a building, the disposal of land improvement works or the use of expropriation material in agricultural works, and the disposal or use of an expropriated mineral cover for surface mining, a mineral mining right equivalent to mineral resources must be paid. To put it simply, the problem is to dig ponds in the middle of a clear-cut woodland, which in some time will grow full of food, accept and are already dangerous, not to mention that such holes are ruining the landscape. On the basis of the above, please answer eight questions. The most important of these are: Are you aware of the problem of so-called ponds that are digging into the forest? What can be done to prevent self - action that harms nature and ruins the landscape? To what extent do laws allow the problem to be dealt with, including, of course, the identification and punishment of those responsible? Does the Ministry of the Environment have the levers to deal with and eliminate the problem? How is landscape protection monitored? How real is it that only two ponds have been dug in Saaremaa for the last year and a half, because only two permits have been officially granted to dispose of the vault? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Vakra. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment to respond to the speaker's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! To answer the question, I will take the questions you have asked one by one. The first question: "Are you aware of such a problem of so-called forest complaining 'wings'? " I am fully aware of this problem. We have been discussing this topic with both the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate, as well as during consultations within the Ministry of the Environment. I have followed this topic in the islanders' daily newspaper, the Voice of the Islands. So I am also familiar with the local population's approach to this concern and it is known that this is an issue that has caused a little passion on the ground. The second question: "What can be done about self - action that harms nature and ruins the landscape? " Any action which harms nature in one way or another and which permanently violates the landscape must, first, be subject to very effective supervision. If this is an infringement, then of course there must be punishment. If it is environmental damage, it must be claimed. The current ground law fully allows monitoring of mining activities, which also allows enforcement mechanisms to be implemented through sanctions and the recovery of environmental damage already mentioned. I will address this issue briefly in the current case. In particular, the principles and procedures for the use of the ground are governed by the law on the ground. In turn, the Mining Act, which supervises compliance with and compliance with the requirements established by the Technical Supervisory Authority, which operates in the area of administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, answers the questions concerning mining. If the property has materials such as sand, gravel, clay, agricultural stones, peat, this material belongs to the owner of the property and the owner has the right to use the material for personal purposes. However, if the owner wishes to sell, dispose of this material, he must have permission from the Environmental Board to do so without permission. If the possibility of using sand, gravel or field stones for personal purposes provided for by law is to be abused, this issue is likely to have to be dealt with separately, since the current provision is still provided for in the belief that abuses do not occur in this form and that the landowners use this material for their own use. Similarly, if the owner wishes to transport the excavation or excavation product to another immovable property, this can be done only with the consent of the Environmental Board. In order to obtain consent, the owner of the immovable property must notify the Environmental Board in writing and, if the Environmental Board has not responded within two weeks, it has received coordination. The same shall apply in the case of material arising from the construction process. Even if this material is intended to be disposed of, it must be authorised in advance. The third question: 'How much can legislation address this problem, including identifying and punishing those responsible? Please specify! " As indicated above, the Land Underground Act provides for a procedure for the use of land. If it is not law-abiding ground users, the Environmental Inspectorate, who detects an infringement, takes action, imposes a fine and recovers any damage to the environment. The compensation for environmental damage is dealt with in § 74 of the Groundbreaking Act. According to this, damage to the environment is caused if mineral resources or natural rock, sediment, liquid or gas which are not accounted for as mineral resources are transported to another immovable property without the consent of the Environmental Board, or are transferred or used outside the building or construction of the immovable property, or are transferred or used outside the mining of the mineral assets to be detached. From 1 January 2010 until 30 June 2011, the Environmental Inspectorate has handled violations under § 681 of the Groundbreaking Act in 21 cases and the environmental damage calculated exceeds EUR 70000. Question 4: "Does the Ministry of the Environment have the levers to deal with and eliminate the problem? ' As I described above, the law fully contains the relevant provisions, the legal basis for dealing with the problem is there and it is being dealt with. Question 5: "How is monitoring done in the case of landscape protection? Is this a priority area for you? ' Responsibility for environmental damage is well regulated in a number of environmental laws, such as the Underground Act, the Forest Act, the Environmental Liability Act. The monitoring of the use of natural environments and resources is carried out on the basis of the current Environmental Surveillance Act. As has already been said a few times, supervision is carried out by the Environmental Inspectorate, the Land Board and also by the local authority or local government body. Of course, monitoring and landscape protection, I think, is a priority not only for the Ministry of the Environment, but also for all members of the Riigikogu. So the question of whether this is a priority area can only be answered yes. Question 6: Have the Environmental Board officials been given significant discretion in deciding not to deal with certain problems? ' No, it's not. Officials are obliged to deal with problems encountered or emerging in their field of work. There is no wide discretion as to whether or not to deal with a problem. Question 7: "How real is it that only two ponds have been dug in Saaremaa during the last year and a half, because only two permits have been officially granted to dispose of the well? ' As explained above, digging so-called ponds itself does not necessarily require permission to dispose of the excavation. If it is a material used for personal purposes, it is not necessary to apply for a separate permit from the Environmental Board. But let's look at some data. On the basis of § 60 of the Groundbreaking Act, the Environmental Board, in the Hiiu-West-Saare region from 1 March 2009 to 18 August 2011, gave its consent to dispose of the remaining 30000 cubic metres of the well from the construction of two artificial water collections in the village of Järis in Mustjala municipality, to use 1000 cubic metres of the water remaining in the village of Tehumard in Salme municipality and 3,000 cubic metres of the well in the village of Mändjala in Kaarma municipality, to use the remaining 300 cubic metres of the well in the construction of the pond in the village of Mändjala and to use the remaining 1000 cubic metres of the well for the construction of the pond in Nasva village. Question 8: 'On the basis of the above information, there is a reasonable question as to how a complex procedure such as digging a pond on a forest area will go unnoticed by the state. " It won't go unnoticed. As I said above, we are fully aware of this problem, this issue is being dealt with, the Environmental Inspectorate must be supervised. There may, of course, also be cases where information on possible infringements has not become available in time. The Ministry of the Environment, the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board have a request to all alert citizens that, if they have information about infringements, they provide it. The reporting of environmental offences has been made quite simple, and must be reported to a 24/7 working phone in 1313. None of the notifications received there shall be left unanswered. Finally. This does not directly relate to the problem of so-called ponds, but to mining in general. When I replied, I referred to the law of the earth on several occasions. The amendment of the Groundwater Act is being prepared in the Ministry of the Environment for some time. The main issue of amending this law is quite questionable for me the fact that the state currently plays a rather passive role in directing mineral extraction. The main task of the state is to process all applications from good companies that we receive and that one or the other miner wants to start extracting mineral resources somewhere. We are currently analysing possible solutions for the state to take a much clearer leading role in planning and organising the introduction of mineral resources. Some of the issues that are analysed are, for example, where it is most sustainable and sensible to mine from an environmental point of view. This is one of those issues that can and must be decided by the state, and always and only by the state. Or the question of how to rule out such situations that we start opening new mines before the existing ones are exhausted, or how to ensure that the remediation of the extracted areas is not delayed. These are some examples of the issues that we are analysing in connection with this amendment of the law. The issue of so-called ponds is probably one of the issues to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U12	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U13	Thank you, good minister, for your answers. Since you said that you are aware of the problem of the Saaremaa ponds, I have a simple and direct question: are you familiar with where the supervision and the law have now come to, specifically, with the work of these ponds?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U14	Thank you. Of course, we could have put the question a little bit more precisely. I read these examples when a permit has been issued for the disposal of material from a dig. There have been indeed infringement proceedings. As I said, there have been 21 infringements in total and the environmental damage that has been claimed amounts to over EUR 70000. So the answer now is so much that if you asked for a more concrete example, you might be able to answer more specifically. The subject is being dealt with on an ongoing basis, not only by the Environmental Inspectorate, but also by municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U15	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U16	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, The subject is certainly important, but it seems to have been overlooked by the inquisitors that, in addition to digging these ponds, much of the excavation material has been obtained from the sea. Indeed, the expansion of ports has continued and, to a very significant extent, this excavation material has also come from the sea in this regard. This is the domain of the Maritime Administration, all legal digs have been and this material has also been sold. However, it is clear that limestone extracted in Saare County, for example, is not of good quality enough. This has also been acknowledged by the Road Administration's specialists. To make top surfaces on the roads, it's too muddy and dusty. Since the sea is between, the availability of some building materials is not as good as on the mainland. The proposal or question is rather that perhaps in the future it would make sense to coordinate between the respective agencies of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment how to guarantee that everyone gets the necessary building material.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U17	Thank you. It was a bit of a commentary question. But if I referred to the need to amend the law on the ground before, and also to the fact that analyses on this subject are currently being carried out at the Ministry of the Environment, guaranteeing security of supply in the most environmentally friendly way is certainly one of the issues we currently have on the table. One example of why we consider very close cooperation with the Road Administration and the precise identification of the needs of the Road Administration to be essential. This example is very simple. If a major road construction project is planned for one or the other, the logical course of action would be to look at the possible places of taking of construction land near this object, not to transport materials from the other end of Estonia or to try to open a mine on the other end of Estonia. It is therefore very important that cooperation is smooth and the necessary supplies can be put in place in sufficient time, so that there really is no situation in which we need to start, very quickly, a fire in the field of construction resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U18	Please, colleague Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In Saaremaa, there are other unexpected forest holes and it is good that they are enough away from the schoolhouse. Maybe you don't need to know exactly, but why don't you tell me that if someone digs a pool like this, how deep can it be? If you're not allowed to sell this material, you can make a homeyard mountain. How high can it be without registration?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U20	Thank you. Now, when we talk specifically about the pond, the thing about the pond is that its construction or digging is governed by the construction law. If it is a potential pond of less than 60 square metres, it must be coordinated with the local government, if all this is happening in the municipality, then with the rural municipality. If it is already a larger pond, which is indeed a pond, then it will require a construction project. I think the ones the heirs referred to were, in part, ponds, but rather, in Saaremaa, the holes that are dug into the ponds have caused dissatisfaction. The approach that appeared in the Voice of the Islands also indicated that sometimes this hole may have been dug to a place where water's income is unlikely at all. These examples need to be analysed very seriously, which is exactly what they are. If someone at first seemed to have invented a very clever trick to bypass the requirements, I would advise against using such tricks, because they will pay off very painfully later. If this is a violation of the environment, if it is a violation of the rules, then there will be a penalty. But if it really is a pond, and if we're talking about this sand or the soil that's being taken out, and if it's being used for its own use, then the Environmental Board doesn't need coordination. But if it's a pond bigger than 60 square meters, then it's the construction law and all the procedures go through.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U21	No further questions. Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U22	Next are the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman, Deniss Borodichi, Valeri Korb, Mailis Reps and Tarmo Tamme on 2 June. a request for an internal satisfaction survey submitted by the Police and Border Guard Board. I would like to ask my colleague in the chair, Lauri Laas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U23	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On 2 June s. My colleague Kalle Laane stood here on the floor and reported an inquiry to the Minister for the Interior. Let me remind you what the content of the question is. In fact, last year, an internal satisfaction study was carried out at the Ministry of Interior's administration, Police and Border Guard Board, which examined the functioning of internal communication during the first phase and the internal climate of the organisation in the second phase. According to the survey, 86% of the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board do not believe that the structure of the Agency is conducive to effective management and decision-making, and 46% of the managers are dissatisfied with the organisation and day-to-day administration of work. 73% of the police and border guards do not understand the organisation of work and 81% of the employees are in trouble with day-to-day business. There is a worryingly high level of dissatisfaction with the internal climate, especially among the staff of the Border Guard Department and the Criminal Police Department. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that many workers have highlighted the need for honest communication. Surprisingly, the poor research results were as expected of the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, and this is because a large organisation is not yet ready. So what really prevents the Ministry of the Interior from completing a major project, and can the promise to use the research results to improve the identified bottlenecks be fulfilled by the management? We have nine questions for the Minister of the Interior, in my opinion, which are completely benevolent and wait for clarification. So we're waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U24	Thank you very much, Mr Laas. Mr. Home Secretary's speaking desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U25	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Thank you very much for these nine questions. I start from the beginning: 'Do you think that the creation of a large organisation, the PPP, with this structure, has justified itself? If so, for what specific reasons? ' In my opinion, the merger of agencies has justified itself. The Riigikogu made this decision by a very large majority. This gives a very simple summary of the opportunity to use resources, assets and money in a more flexible way. The existing structure has ensured the launch of a large organisation. Now, however, the situation is that there are ongoing analyses of the effectiveness of the existing structure. It is still the largest authority in Estonia, employing 7 000 people. We will analyse the effectiveness of the structure, as well as whether any changes are needed in order to achieve the objectives better. The second question: 'What do you think are the major shortcomings of the system? What are you going to do about it? ' I think the biggest deficit is probably linked to the size of this structure, with 7,000 people working there. These are the various authorities that have been put together. A major problem may arise in terms of coherence between the various parts of this large organisation, a common organisational culture and stable and consistent development. So far, for a little over a year and a half, the PBA has worked. In any case, it is clear that there are areas that can certainly be improved in the PBGB. Question 3: "Do you know the results of an internal study carried out in the PBGB? If so, what do you think are the most important bottlenecks and how do you intend to intervene in improving them? " Yes, the results of these internal studies are generally known. According to this study, the processes are lengthy and bureaucratic and the information is not enough within the organisation. The Ministry of the Interior analyses the management processes of the PBA, we have involved experts for this purpose. As a result of the analysis, measures can be taken to help alleviate bottlenecks. But I might not be in a hurry today, waiting for the results of this analysis, which should be completed in the autumn of this year. Question 4: 'The study shows that those with less than a year's experience are more satisfied with the system. Are you going to look more closely at why longer-term workers are dissatisfied with the system? What do you think should change so that loyal workers are more motivated and satisfied with the system? " The only thing that has to be said here is that it is delighted that the recent officials of the organization are satisfied with the organization in which they have started their careers. It shows that new people have motivation, they also sense career opportunities. Yes, the long-term workforce was dissatisfied by a rigid career model at the time, at the end of 2010. As we know, Parliament adopted amendments to the Police and Border Guard Act in February 2011. This meant that the career system was made more flexible. This law enters into force on 1 January 2012, it allows professionals a broader perspective on development and should provide incentives for workers. The organisation will also review the principles of remuneration, which must ensure motivational remuneration for top specialists in its field and, of course, also the desire to become the top of or to continue to do so. Question 5: "Is the dissatisfaction of long-term workers with the system any sign of danger to you? For what reason? ' Yes, of course it is a sign of danger. The reasons for workers' dissatisfaction must be addressed. This has also been the case, as I have already mentioned, and Parliament has also taken its decisions here. The career system has been made more flexible and work continues to increase motivation and satisfaction within this very large agency. Of course, it is clear that the aim is for internal security officials to do their daily work with commitment and confidence. Question 6: 'How much do you think there is a need to investigate the dissatisfaction expressed by the employees of the PBGB with respect to honest communication? ' As I mentioned earlier, this work is ongoing, the analysis of management processes in the PBA is taking place, and there is certainly one analysis point in the internal communications department. Question 7: "What does the statement of the Director-General of the PBA mean that the decision-making powers of the Director-General, his deputies and the prefects have been clarified and taken to an optimal place? As far as you know, has anything substantially changed at the level of decision-making in the PBGB? If so, what and exactly how were they changed? ' You can best ask the Director-General of the PBGB about this claim. What I can tell you is that, of course, the Director-General confirms the governance model according to which his office as a whole works. Since it is indeed a large, multifaceted, large agency, a large organisation, of very many separate agencies, an in-depth analysis of management processes is being carried out in order to find the best model to ensure a clear and optimal decision-making capacity within the organisation. Question 8: Is the Ministry actively involved in a plan of action to improve bottlenecks, in particular with regard to management, drawn up on the basis of an internal study by the PBGB? Please explain! 'The Ministry of the Interior has involved the management and independent experts of the PBGB to analyse the management processes in the PBGB. In the autumn, an analysis should be prepared, which highlights the weaknesses of governance, but certainly also the positive aspects. This analysis will result in a review of the existing system and, where appropriate, a knowledge-based change in management processes. The ninth question: 'If you consider that the main problem for employees is pay, what do you intend to do in this area to increase the satisfaction of the employees of the PBGB? ' This year, the management of the PBGB has been given the task of reviewing its internal operating mechanisms and processes and assessing the allocation of internal resources, whether it is possible to move qualitatively forward here, particularly in support services (we are talking about the administration in terms of the PPP structure). Opportunities have been found that we have discussed in the budgetary process. An internal system must certainly be set up within the organisation to ensure a high level of motivation for the professionals in the field and to create a desire for everyone to become a leading expert in the field. This is by no means an easy task. The Ministry of the Interior deals with this at a strategic level and the management of the PBGB deals with it systematically and continuously at tactical level. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U26	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. You have questions. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U27	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you too, Mr Minister for the Interior, for your substantive answers. In this sense, I fully agree with you that each organisation needs time to develop and start working properly and that the people who run this organisation also need time. I am a little concerned about what has been heard in the media lately that the current director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board may not accept Christmas in this office anymore. Can you disprove that statement or confirm it? So how is this thing? Should the Knight of Raivo be concerned or not about continuing his office?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U28	I don't know what kind of media you're referring to. I'm the one who's been reading news about media publications that are accessible to everyone, but I haven't read anything. I focused my answers on the management analysis that's going on, and I gave you information on it. The management of the PBGB is looking at it very positively, so is the Ministry of the Interior. We need to understand what these qualitative locations are where we can make the structure and governance of the PPP even more thoughtful, optimized. Resources are limited and it is clear that within them we must provide people with the best possible service. This is, I think, the current endeavour of everyone who has been involved in and contributed to the process of accession of the PBGB in the very long term, and also in this Parliament, which has been widely and extensively debated. I think that, as a whole, this was an extremely right step, and all we have to do is move on from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U29	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U30	Thank you. We are on such a timetable that already this week the state budget will be brought to the Riigikogu tables for next year and we can start talking about these matters very specifically. However, what is your opinion on this increase in internal satisfaction on the basis of the lines of next year's state budget that we are talking about here? Perhaps you have also discussed the amounts, because neither satisfaction depends solely on salary numbers; this money goes to many other places as well. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U31	Thank you for your question. According to additional requests for internal security, the budget for the following year envisages a rather significant increase of more than 8%, of which a significant proportion will be received by the PBGB. Very right you proved that motivation and satisfaction are not just about pay, it is also about confidence, the working environment, technical means. According to additional requests, investments approved by the government will be in different areas next year. As I mentioned, the management of the PBGB has itself, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and at our request, analysed the composition of the administration, for example. With this we will definitely move forward in the autumn and in the early winter. Perhaps it will be analysed whether it is optimal to provide the support service provided to such a large body as the PBGB is, whether it is possible to do something differently in order to find additional resources again for the main activity of the police, which is the main service provided to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U32	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In your speech, you mentioned that 7,000 people currently work at the PBA. In this context, I have a question of how you will assess the question of the frame at the PBA at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U34	Comparisons are difficult to estimate for 7,000 people. But I am sure that the vast majority of people who work at the PBA will do their job with dedication and full confidence that they will be able to add value to people's sense of security across Estonia. But the sense of security depends not only on the police's own actions, but also on the activities of the police, where the career of professional police officers is very important, on which, as I mentioned, Parliament made important decisions in February 2011 to make the career system more flexible, to give the leaders of the PBGB the opportunity to motivate people better, to inspire people, it is also important to involve the community, which I still emphasise here and there. We can all contribute to the security of our village, our city, our municipality. It is a voluntary activity, it is an activity that everyone can do by participating in the neighborhood watch, being an assistant police officer or a volunteer rescuer when we talk about the Rescue Board. Ultimately, security and security, all internal security in many ways, depend on the contribution of each member of society, not just on the contribution of professional policemen, which is, of course, very important. I hope that our internal security competence and capabilities will come from the Academy of Home Affairs, and I hope, having welcomed the new course of the Academy of Home Affairs at the beginning of the school year, and only last Friday, the best students of the Academy of Home Affairs will come from there with a capable, modern, European, wide-eyed frame. These men and women are indebted both to the security of the streets and to the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U35	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U36	The next question is Kalle Laaneti, Deniss Borodichi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Lauri Laasi, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luise, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Rainer Vakra, Priit Toobali and Ester Tuiksoo on 9 June in the s. a request for information on the situation of healthcare providers in the event of a finding that they are intoxicated. I would like to ask my colleague, Peter Võsa, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U37	Now, there was such an inquiry on 9 June. The inquiry was initiated by a letter from the Chancellor of Justice to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, where he stresses that the Police and Border Guard Act, more precisely, paragraphs 1 and 6 of § 726 and § 727 (5) and (9) of § 727, are incompatible with the Constitution. The letter of formal notice of the Chancellor of Justice was, in turn, caused by health care providers who had approached the Chancellor of Justice, who saw a number of problems in the implementation of the procedures for the detection of drunkenness laid down in the Police and Border Guard Act. The letter of formal notice revealed that the main problems faced by healthcare providers were the obligation of any healthcare provider to take a sample by the police without prior administrative agreement, the possible risk to the health of the person suspected of drinking, the lack of sufficient competence to assess his/her drinking condition, in particular in the case of non-alcoholic beverages, and the conflict with the principles of medical ethics. During the procedure, the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Hospitals Association, the Ministry of Justice, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board were asked for a position. On the basis of the results of the analysis, the Chancellor of Justice proposed to bring these paragraphs of the Police and Border Guard Act into line with the Constitution and to analyse the adequacy of the protection of the rights of minors, the regulation of the detection of drugs in cooperation with experts, and to clarify the risk of forced urine sampling from the point of view of the fundamental right of the person, i.e. the protection of health. So the problem is seen here by doctors, healthcare providers, victims of raped samples and the Chancellor of Justice. The question is whether the Minister of the Interior sees the problem in this situation. In total, we have four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U38	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Mr. Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaker's Board, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your questions. The first question: 'Do you see a problem as Minister of the Interior in the situation described above? ' Yes, we certainly consider the debate initiated by the Chancellor of Justice on the compatibility of the police and border guard law with the Constitution to be important, as all the Chancellor of Justice proved to be important. These observations have a great deal to do in order to review the regulations, and they contribute to the organisation of police law, or law enforcement law, and to ensuring compliance with the Constitution. The second question: 'The Chancellor of Justice considers that, at the request of the police, the exercise of the act is an intensive violation of the fundamental rights of the person subject to the trial. What are your proposals for resolving the situation so that the necessary evidence can be gathered without prejudice to medical ethics and fundamental human rights? ' I am happy to express to you the view that the current regulation has created a sufficiently flexible opportunity to minimise the interference with fundamental rights of individuals and to ensure respect for medical ethics. In fact, the law provides for the design of a person to be able to choose between two variants: the detection of drunkenness with an evidenceal alcometer and the requirement to identify drunkenness with a blood sample. This is a free choice for a person, and in that case the person's physical integrity is violated with the consent of the person himself. The second situation then is that these are situations where a person is unable to use an alkometer because of his or her medical condition. In such a case, it is necessary to take a sample of the person irrespective of his/her will because the person is unable to disclose his/her will. In this case, it may also be poisonous and thus health care is provided regardless of the person's will. The application of a breach of the physical integrity of a person is most problematic in cases where a person refuses to provide a reference sample. However, attention should be paid to the fact that a person is able to choose a less intensive option and to use an evidenceal alkometer. It must also be noted that this is not a new phenomenon in Estonian law. An analogous regulation is provided for in § 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides for the taking of reference material by coercion and where the taking of reference material affects the physical integrity of a person, the participation of a forensic practitioner, a healthcare professional or any other specialist. It should be specified that the coercion is not applied by a health care professional but by a police officer, and that the application of the coercion is intended to ensure that the person does not harm himself or others when taking the sample. For example, a health care provider who provides a person with health care regardless of the person's will is also invited to a drug addict on the street. In addition, I state that the Ministry of the Interior is working with the Ministry of Justice to find solutions that are minimally in breach of the rights of individuals when dealing with the draft law implementing the Law Enforcement Act. One possible place of weighing is, for example, the conditions laid down by law, in which case the health care provider has the right to refuse to take a sample. In addition, I note that in practice enforcement has been implemented 15 times in the course of the year and in no case have the persons subject to enforcement lodged a complaint concerning the disproportion of enforcement. The third question: 'How do you assess the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to provide for appropriate posts and to recruit persons with the relevant competences in the composition of the PBA or to increase the number of people working at the Estonian Forensic Institute in order to bring these rules into line with the Constitution? ' Looking ahead, it has to be said that there may be a theoretical possibility that a healthcare provider would not want to enter into an administrative contract with the police in the implementation of the Law Enforcement Act. At the same time, there must not be a situation where a state of drink needs to be identified, but there is no health care provider to do so. Indeed, one of the possibilities that you have mentioned on the matter, based on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, is to include persons with the relevant competences in the police or to increase the regional possibilities of the EKEI. However, this is a theoretical problem, which I consider unlikely to arise. It should be borne in mind that the existence of a health care provider in the composition of the police does not resolve the question raised in the inquiry, which relates in particular to the fundamental right of the person, the breach of physical integrity and the imposition of coercion in the taking of samples. Rather, it can be said that the imposition of the obligation to take samples will provide for contractual partners. In other cases, where a person wishes to take a sample himself, it is not rational to limit the number of persons and it should be possible to transfer the person to the nearest healthcare provider to take the sample. Question 4: 'What concrete steps do you intend to take to implement the Chancellor of Justice's proposals? ' As I mentioned earlier, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice are working together to develop a draft law on the implementation of the law on law enforcement, where we can address the same problems that you, good heirs, have brought to our attention with gratitude. As we know, we adopted the so-called mother law of the Law Enforcement Act in February, and we are hopefully about to begin processing the draft law implementing the Law Enforcement Act when the government sends this draft to Parliament. So we can calmly rediscover these issues during a procedure that can be attended by all Members of Parliament, in particular the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, who is also a respected reader of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U40	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U41	Thank you. That's my question. We're talking about 15 cases here, i.e. we're also talking about 15 doctors who have been forced to take these samples and have been really upset about it. Is 15 doctors short?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U42	Mr. Brush! I don't know if there have been 15 doctors involved, I don't have these records, maybe five doctors and 15 cases. I can't share that kind of information with you right now. Surely this is a subject that needs, as I said in my answers, to be more precise. This analysis is ongoing. You asked yourself if the job was working. The answer is that the work is on. The Chancellor of Justice's memo analysis has been received on 23 May and we are analysing his claim on certain constitutional barriers. We have a very specific legislative framework on how to do this. So I don't think one person or one doctor in itself is enough. There must be a reasonable, reasoned justification in each case. We will come back to this recital and to the procedure that is compatible with the Constitution and will soon be ready to tell you what, and how much, we will have to change in the current procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U43	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U44	Madam President of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We were here listening to the Minister explain how forced sampling is taking place. The person shall be given a choice as to whether he gives the sample voluntarily or chooses to give the sample by coercion. What I understand is that he agrees with the fact that he is resisting and imposing coercion and that certain measures are being taken. Tomorrow, we will discuss the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance, which describes in detail certain health care services, namely the containment of the patient in a psychiatric hospital. This is a health care service, and this service is described in the law, it is stated in which cases this can be done, who will take the decision to do so. The law empowers the regulation of installations, premises, personnel, etc. as it should be in the case of healthcare. The Minister said that forced sampling is a health care service. Thank God this isn't a seizure of evidence. Since blood is known to be a tissue of the body, it is not a discharge, it is a tissue, you might as well take a tattoo with a piece of skin and sew it between the files. Thank God we don't go that far! But when it comes to the 15 people who volunteered for God's tongues to be tested by force, they enjoy it, I don't think these people enjoyed it. As for the fact that there were only 15 of these people, listen, for 15 people, even 15 doctors, an association of doctors and an association of hospitals would not cause such great trouble or send letters to the Chancellor of Justice. Doctors see the problem, they see the problem where we're going. Are we really moving towards some kind of police state? So where's democracy? This coercive sampling provides the police with a repressive method. What's a cop got a rubber stick for? But in order for someone who's drunk, a criminal, a suspect to cause some kind of trouble, he can be handed over with a rubber bat. Right now we're going to the depths. You might say to the suspect, "Shut up and shut up and admit all your accomplices, or they'll go to the urologist, the catheter's metal, sorry, twice as big, and, once again, the Vaseline ran out today. You know, I can describe in detail what forced urine testing looks like medically. I'm not gonna do that because suddenly, after the verbatim, people who aren't the hardest psyche read. Such a lecture can lead to psychophysiological disorders up to night-downs and potency disorders. I don't want that! As a doctor, I have swore an oath that I will take care of people's health, I will not cause trouble, I will not cause pain. I don't know who the doctor would be in Estonia to take a urine sample under compulsion. You can get blood with a little huddle, but you can't get urine. All the more so when a person is drugged, he also has bladder sphincter cramps, so it still happens with injuries. I very much hope that the Ministry of Social Affairs will also be contacted, these things will be looked at, discussed, and finally decided that we do not need such forced samples, but that if a person voluntarily refuses to give a test, then he should be subjected to the coercion of punishment, but not pricked for nothing. Thank you. Good luck to you all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U45	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U46	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. You have questions. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! You have now explained to us that forced sampling is not forced, it is a free choice for a person, he can choose whether to allow the coercion to carry out an analysis or to blow the coercion into an alcometer. However, if it is called coercive by law, I tend to think it is coercive. If this isn't some sort of, I don't know, confiscation or seizure of evidence, it's a health care service. If it is a health service, it must be on the list of health services approved by the Minister of Social Affairs. The Minister of Social Affairs must, by decree, confirm the requirements for the provision of this service in respect of space, equipment, qualification of the employee, etc. Is this to be done? Have you contacted the Ministry of Social Affairs? How are these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U48	Thank you very much. Yes, of course, the coercion is forced. I also tried to explain that when we talk about a state of drink, the current law makes it possible for a person to choose how to detect a possible state of drink. He can do so at his own discretion if he is able to make a free choice. It is forced to do so when it is done independently of his or her will, mainly in cases where a person is unable to disclose his or her will. There are 15 such cases a year. This is a very small number of all cases of intoxication. So far, there have been no alleged complaints concerning the disproportion of enforcement. When it comes to the need to supplement certain legal bases, this is what we do when we process the draft law implementing the law on law enforcement. That is what the law of law really is about to establish very precisely the basis for determining the state of drunkenness, compared to the current situation, where they are to some extent scattered between different laws. We can argue these bases separately. So I do not see a problem at the moment that would show that this issue is very timely, because there are so few cases of 15. At the same time, I acknowledge the need for the Chancellor of Justice's analysis, and also the need for your understanding, and I thank you for your questioning. We can come back to this issue calmly when the law on the implementation of the law of order has first found a solution at government level to the problems referred to by the Chancellor of Justice. If they don't please us, we'll argue in this hall and I'll come to you. I'm sorry, I'm not coming before you with law enforcement, here comes the Minister of Justice, but I'm in front of you anyway. We are doing this work in the Committee on Legal Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. So the whole debate is completely open.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U49	The next question is Peeter Võsa, Inara Luise, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendiev, Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Ester Tuiksoo, Kadri Simson, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Leng and Vladimir Velmani, members of the Riigikogu, on 9 June. a request for information on possible corruption in local governments. Peter Võsa, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U50	Such an inquiry took place on June 9. The content of the inquiry is as follows: For some time now, Võru has been trying to find out about the suspicions of corruption in Võru's former governor and mayor Ülo Tulik. The person in question is allegedly not the most honest official of the state, since he used his influence as a governor of the country to direct the money planned for the establishment of the industrial area of Võru to his son-in-law, Selista Head of the Indrek Klampe. As Mayor, Tulik helped Klampel get a deal by which the city undertook to build a street there at its own expense. Mr Tulik has intervened several times in public procurement procedures and has thus reached favourable decisions for his son-in-law. In addition, the offence committed by Mr Tulik in connection with the privatisation of land has been highlighted. Andres Anvelt, Chairman of the Committee on Corruption in the Riigikogu, found that the accusations made are sufficient for the prosecutor's office to initiate criminal proceedings on their basis. It has not been initiated. We have 12 questions in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U51	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Mr. Home Secretary's speaking desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U52	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! There's a lot of questions. Let's start from the beginning. The first question: 'Are you aware of the activities described above by Ülo Tulik? ' I am not aware of the activities of Ülo Tulik, as described in the inquiry, but I have received information from the public. The second question: 'What is your comment on this situation? " A number of questions have been asked in the inquiry, including the following questions: " Do you think it is justified not to initiate or delay a criminal case if such accusations exist? To what extent is it possible that the investigation will not begin because of the close relationship between Mr. Meelis Saarepuu and Mrs. Signe Drumm, executives of the Southern Prefecture, and Ülo Tulik's son-in-law? Under what circumstances has the Department of Corruption Crimes in the South Prefecture, under which Võru belongs, not begun to investigate this matter? What exactly is missing in this case, so you can't start an investigation? " Good heirs! I can answer your questions as follows. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the pre-trial procedure has been run by the prosecutor's office since 2004 in Estonia, thus ensuring its legality and effectiveness. The powers of the prosecutor in criminal proceedings shall be exercised independently by the prosecutor on behalf of the prosecutor's office, subject only to the law. The Minister of Interior is responsible for matters falling within the Ministry's jurisdiction, matters relating to the internal security of the State, the protection of public order, the surveillance of the state's borders, border control, crisis management, state reserve, rescue and citizenship and migration. It is not the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior to assess whether a criminal case has not been started, to delay it and whether it is justified or not. Question 4: "In what way is it explained in this context that the alleged influence of the procurement of the Narva deputy mayor Andrei Filippov was detained (attended) by the Defence Police and is subject to proceedings? ' Again, in Estonia, research institutions and the prosecutor's office are the legal assessment of these claims, and according to the law the law is understood by the court. The Minister of Home Affairs has no competence to intervene in criminal proceedings and to provide explanations on this case. Question 7: "What is the urgency of the investigative authorities to act in the presence of alleged suspicions of corruption by central parties? Is that reasonable? 'The motive for criminal proceedings is a report of a crime or other information referring to a crime, not membership of a party. The investigating authorities or the prosecutor's office shall initiate proceedings when doubts are well founded and shall act in accordance with the law. There are different circumstances in different cases and, consequently, there are procedural differences in the investigation, but the law is still applied in the same way. Question 8: Have you, as Minister of the Interior, withdrawn from the fight against corruption? For what reason? 'The fight against corruption is one of my clear priorities as Minister of the Interior and its government coalition, because all corruption crimes undermine the credibility of the state and undermine our sense of security as well as the security and economy of the country. I'd love to give you a little insight into what we've done and what we're doing. When it comes to the general fight against corruption, it must be said that an anti-corruption strategy is being developed. As we know, the first "Honest State" strategy was adopted in 2004 and has had a follow-up. A new follow-up to the anti-corruption strategy will be adopted during this government coalition. The strategy's current deadline should be 2012. The strategy aims at narrowing corruption opportunities and increasing intolerance to corruption through a concrete action plan. In addition, a draft amendment to the Regulation on the investigative power of criminal authorities is underway in order to amend the legislative framework, one of the objectives of which is to grant the right of investigation of the defence police provided for in the Coalition Agreement to all corruption cases that threaten the security of the Republic of Estonia. Discussions are also taking place on the new anti-corruption law, which, as we know, has been in Parliament once, and which the Government of the Republic is expected to give to Parliament for processing and adoption within this year's number. This law clarifies the circle of officials who have an obligation to declare economic interests, and also makes the declaration of economic interests substantive and electronic, i.e. processed, which it has not actually been. In addition, when we are talking about the PBA, since 1 September, two separate units have been formed there. The Asset Recovery and Confiscation Unit was set up on 1 September to identify, in particular, the proceeds of serious covert crimes, including corruption crimes. This unit will become a competence centre and, if necessary, will allow the detection of proceeds from criminal activities for all offences investigated by the investigating authorities. The aim is also to make greater use of the so-called "expanded confiscation" provided for by law to those convicted of organised crime and economic crime and corruption. The objective is very simple: to make crime as less profitable as possible, as it prevents the use of proceeds from crime to commit new crimes. In addition, a central corruption investigation office has been established in the PBA since 1 September, with the aim of being very simple: to establish another competence centre in the PBA, whose competence is known to be to investigate possible violations of the law in 220 municipalities of Estonia, in particular the investigation of violations of the duty of honesty. The services are currently working on this in the precincts. These services shall be brought under the authority of the Central Bureau. This capacity, which is primarily aimed at detecting and investigating corruption crimes within the competence of the PBGB, is naturally complemented by posts in the central office in Tallinn as well as in services in various prefectures. Question 9: "How is it possible in the rule of law that for a month the press reflects the dubious corrupt activities of a state official and the investigative authorities remain silent? ' I can only draw the attention of good prosecutors to the fact that pre-trial records and what happens in pre-trial proceedings are published by the prosecutor's office, being the head of criminal proceedings. In the interests of an objective and complete investigation of data and the taking of evidence, it is generally not possible for the prosecutor's office to disclose information unless such a decision is taken by the prosecutor's office. Such an inquiry can, of course, always be submitted to the prosecutor's office. Question number ten: Are you personally tolerating the initiation of a criminal investigation against party affiliation? For what reason? ' As I already answered one of the above questions, the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office will start criminal proceedings with the first investigative or procedural act if there is an incentive and grounds for doing so and there are no circumstances which preclude criminal proceedings provided for by law. A party's membership in the context of the initiation or non-initiation of criminal proceedings is already ruled out by law. Question 12: "What kind of attitude, where doubts exist as facts, but nothing is done with an alternate member of the Riigikogu of the IRL, gives the public what you think? ' The basic question here, of course, goes back to the criminal law assessment of the facts as to whether or not they exist, not to which party they are or are not. We'll have the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office do their job as criminal authorities, as competent authorities. Speculation over the various links in this Chamber certainly does not give us anything. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U53	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. You have questions. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U54	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to you now as an unsuspecting, pro-orderer, etc., it seemed that you hadn't taken a single step forward in this question. When you answered the first question, you admitted that you didn't know anything about it. It seems that you have simply come here to read to us on the watch, which every member of the Riigikogu could have done just as well or better. Sometimes it would be better if you made your point. Now the question. Listening to your very incompetent, I'd say the answers, there is a strong doubt that the ministry you run will want to deal with corruption in the first place. It's like I don't want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U55	Just as you can ask, Mr Lenk, whether you, Mr Lenk, want to understand how the rule of law works in the Republic of Estonia or not. If you do not want this, you can twist our beautiful Estonian language as much as you want in this Chamber. You have the right to do so. The Constitution gives you that right. A Member of Parliament has the right to debate, to see the matter exactly like that, and to set out his or her sentence patterns as he or she wishes. You have a chance. Your actions are appreciated by voters, no one else. You have the right to do so. I tried to give the best possible answer to those questions that I can answer and to point out those questions that you have asked in your inquiry, but which I cannot answer because the law gives competence and authority to the various authorities, different authorities, in the rule of law. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U56	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a very specific question. The inquiry states that Andres Anvelt, Chairman of the Committee on Corruption in the Riigikogu, found that the accusations made are sufficient for the prosecutor's office to initiate a criminal case on their basis. I want to ask you what you think, whether Andres Anvelt is even competent to decide this, i.e. whether he has enough sense in his head, he has the experience and skills to decide what suspicions could be initiated in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U58	I think that every person, especially a Member, can speak out exactly as he sees fit, just as it is in a parliamentary state. The purpose of your inquiry is to ask about criminal proceedings initiated under the law. In this respect, our criminal authorities have exclusive rights and competences: the police and the prosecutor's office. They decide whether or not the basis exists. This is not enough, because there is also a court that will ultimately assess whether the criminal proceedings initiated, on the basis of which the so-called specific event has been established, a specific fact in which evidence has been gathered, an accusation has been made, held or is not held in court. It's up to the court to decide. For God's sake, Estonia is the rule of law. The fact that the criminal authorities have brought one or another case to court does not mean that the proceedings will definitely end with a conviction. It's not like that. You can see very well in Estonian case law that this is not the case. One case or another can't be proved. That is the way it should be governed by the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U59	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U60	Thank you. You said very resoundingly that combating corruption is a priority for this coalition. We have provided you with so-called 'information'. You say it's like it's none of your business. Tell me why you are not interested in the information you refer to as a minister, why you are not doing anything to keep this matter under investigation, or that we will have some specific answers. You act like this thing isn't worth investigating at all, and it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U61	Thank you very much. It is the duty of a member of the Government of the Republic to ensure that there are opportunities, resources and legal bases, as far as the law has jurisdiction to enable law enforcement authorities to detect, prove and, of course, bring criminal cases to justice. This is the competence of the Minister of the Interior as a member of the Government of the Republic. It is not my competence to initiate criminal cases, to deal with criminal cases or to assess criminal cases. This shall be done by the competent authority. That's why we have the D.A.'s office. That's why we have the police. You have submitted an inquiry, which you can also very well address to the law enforcement authorities. I think you've certainly done that. That's it. If you have doubts, if a Member has doubts, questions will be asked. I understand you. I've also read in the media, in the local paper, that there are doubts. These doubts must be confirmed or confirmed that they are not true. I am absolutely certain that criminal authorities in Estonia will deal with this within the limits of their competences and resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U62	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! If Andres Anvelt, Chairman of the Corruption Commission, finds that there are enough suspicions to justify the initiation of an investigation, is he not, however, a sufficiently authoritative person to allow the law enforcement authorities, the prosecutor's office, the police or whoever you refer to to to check the facts and start the proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U64	Thank you! I would like to draw attention to this, the good inquisitor, that the person who is in charge of possible criminal proceedings makes comments on criminal proceedings. This is the Office of the Prosecutor of the Republic of Estonia. In my opinion, the rule of law is rather well thought out in terms of the competence and competence of one authority or another, one authority or another. Criminal proceedings do not fall within the competence of the members of the Government of the Republic. I'm saying it's definitely right that you don't. The rule of law provides for this by law, independent officials as well as an authority in the form of a prosecutor's office. I think it is a very well-built system in the Republic of Estonia, a proven system, and it will certainly improve every day. Let us not forget that you have seen particularly serious cases of corruption over the last five years. These aren't simple cases, they're very complicated. This is a very serious form of disguised crime, with which the fight depends unambiguously on the resources that the state puts in it. In the last seven or eight years, the Estonian state has put a lot into it. I think we have made the Estonian state much more transparent, we have made it stronger, which means that the state's ability to detect serious corruption crimes also prevents corruption. These things are in an unambiguous relationship. I think we can only move on from here. The developed European countries, even our good neighbours Finland, Sweden and Denmark, who are the most transparent countries in the world, have still not been rid of corruption, even though they have much less of it than in Estonia. According to the opinion and studies of international experts in Estonia, this is much less than in our good southern neighbours and other Eastern and Central European countries. So we have plenty of room for improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U65	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U66	I came to this remote control just because the situation takes a very peculiar color. Now the second minister has been reporting before the Estonian Parliament on one serious accusation of corruption, but we have not gotten any smarter, whether a person is guilty, or whether there have been any acts of corruption in Võrumaa at all. The minister now took the portfolio and goes out of the hall; he doesn't even care about the opinion of a member of the Riigikogu. Thank you for coming back and sitting down! Your answer, I mean, Mr. Minister of the Interior, was under all kinds of records! You're a young man, you have a brilliant career ahead of you. Never come before Parliament again with something you do not know. The first question asked whether you were familiar with the Võrumaa case. You said you weren't. At the same time, in the Võrumaa Official Journal, it is a local county page, so please note the many dozens of pages written about this case. I wonder if the Secretary of the Interior has ever heard of it. Then I'll ask what's going on in the ministry when the media gives you ready-made solutions on the table. We don't blame Mr. Butterfly at all. I'm his welcome, we're from one of the polls, and I can tell you that he seems like a very nice person. We always say hello to each other. I hope he's a good family father, too. We have no reason to say anything wrong about him. But now it turns out that the Estonian Riigikogu is discussing the issue, ministers come here on two Mondays, the Minister of Justice came one Monday, the Minister of the Interior was now attending, but we are going out of this hall just as wisely. I'm asking you, Mr. Home Secretary, what's going on. Does Mr Tulik have to live with this shadow for the rest of his life, that on two occasions in the large Chamber of the Estonian Riigikogu he has been discussed that he is allegedly accused of corruption? Then who in Estonia has to say what is right? Did the paper lie? Should the Minister of the Interior sue this page or should he read these materials? The question is what happens next. There's an absolute vacuum here, Mr. Vaher! You came to victory in the election with a slogan 'Select time! '. You're incorruptible, but here I heard your speech, and it gave the impression that you don't know anything about corruption or incorruptibility. You're just gonna come over here and tell us you can't tell the DA's office what to do. I don't understand that. When an elder in northern Tallinn district put his picture on an event, I think some summer days poster, based on the fact that the photo was on the poster, an investigation was started. But if, for months, the Võrumaa Official Journal has been very enlightened by this story (this is a very serious page, one of the best Estonian newspapers now, it seems to me, in dealing with corruption issues), it turns out that the Minister does not know. He hasn't heard that there's supposedly corruption in Võrumaa! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U67	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U68	Now, ladies and gentlemen, after my hammer strike, it is possible to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U69	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Those who have remained in this Chamber are true statesmen and stateswomen, because the work of a member of the Riigikogu means that a member of the Riigikogu takes maximum part in everything that happens in this Chamber and also outside it. But I came here today to tell you about this sort of thing. In fact, a short time ago, the Minister of the Interior praised several times that we have the rule of law. Of course it is, and it's good. But sometimes it seems to me that we have a country of paragraph because we have a huge number of lawyers. I have not examined the number of people with legal education in the Riigikogu. I am a doctor and perhaps the law should be passed so that doctors cannot be allowed into the Riigikogu, there would be less problems. But lawyers see the world a little different from doctors. Each person sees the world from his own point of view, from his own specialty, from his own experience. There are also huge numbers of lawyers in ministries and all kinds of state agencies, and lawyers like sections. Of course, no ministry has set out such a plan that so many laws have to be made, so many regulations etc., but this is an indicator of the ministry's work, however, how many laws have been sent from there to the Riigikogu. That's the idea I'm suggesting. Maybe we should think a little bit, do we need all these paragraphs? Is every law necessary? Tomorrow we will discuss the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance in this Chamber, which describes a great service such as the containment of a mentally ill patient, which is undoubtedly a necessary service, it has always been done, for thousands of years. If a mentally ill person is dangerous to himself and others, his or her movement must be limited. Every hospital has its own rules for that. These are old, traditional, tried and tested methods, and there's nothing new to come up with. But now we're gonna cut it all into the law, because we need the law. In my opinion, there are many things that should be regulated by social practice, social agreement, social control. Do we really have to pass the law that a dog is forbidden to do his harm on the lawn if it could be regulated by social control? As an experienced person, I have also come abroad. A dog in England and France doesn't joke about grass, because both humans and dogs are used to doing it in a civilized way even from an animal's point of view. We can also adopt a law prohibiting spitting down. It's not good to spit it off. But why are we still not described in the law, why is it not good, how is it not good, when is it not good, what are the implementing measures of the law and what criteria are used to punish, whether the amount, volume, weight, chemical composition or whatever? I mean, why don't you take a spit sample and see how dangerous it is for the environment? Look, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a doctor. Medicine and dealing with a patient in the first place are closer to my heart, and I know a little bit more about it. That is why I say that it is very difficult in healthcare to describe everything in a point-by-point way, because people are very different. We cannot pass the law that the tablet is taken three times a day, half an hour after eating and after drinking a hundred grams of water or whatever. People react in different ways, they're very different. Not only patients, including doctors, are different, including these 15 doctors or one doctor, I don't know who took samples from 15 people by force. All people are different, but I believe most of them are polite, decent people who don't spit, even though there's no law about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-26_U70	There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4:41 p.m.
