ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-12_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the fifth Thursday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. I request the Riigikogu Chair Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-12_U2	Good morning, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I and eight other members of the Centre Party Group have an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. The inquiry concerns the two greenest parts of Tallinn, but why not the unorganized and unreformed states of other districts. The state has committed itself and has taken several parks and natural environments into protection, but has subsequently failed to clean them up and ignore them. Hence our inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. Will Nõmme and Pirita parks, which have been placed under national protection and which the state has a duty to maintain, be maintained in the future, and will money be found for this? Is something going to be done about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-12_U3	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on further processing in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Good fellows! We have some messages too. Firstly, today, after the end of the session, there will be a meeting to set up the Estonian-Danish parliamentary group. The caller is Indrek Saar. Just got another message on the manager's desk. I will read it out: 'After the end of today's sitting, the meeting will be held in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. ' The summoner is Margus Hanson. We look forward to taking an active part in both meetings. Good fellows! We're gonna do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Good fellows! Thank you very much for your participation in today's session and for your help in running it. Today we do not have any items on the agenda, so the session is closed. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.03 a.m.
