ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! I will first take this opportunity and thank you all for your trust. I am counting on very supportive, constructive and understanding cooperation during this period. Lennart Meri said in the speech of the 79th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia that we are all responsible for our country together and individually. I wish this piece of wisdom would accompany us at any moment. We will now begin the Tuesday session of the third working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to hand over drafts and inquiries? The Government of the Republic is initiating drafts today, and I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-19_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic is launching a draft law on ratification of the Second Amendment Agreement to the Cotonou Agreement. In the Riigikogu, Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-19_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Karel Rüütel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-19_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, we are handing over the draft law amending the Law on student grants and student loans. The drafting of the bill was due to the need to bring the law on student grants and student loans into line with the principle of legitimate expectations. On 1 July 2009, the Law on student grants and student loans was amended and the reimbursement of student loans was abolished for all employees in the public sector who had not completed higher education studies or worked in the public sector for a year. The partial cancellation of the student loan was also abolished for parents who had completed their studies and raised a child up to 5 years of age. As a result of such a rapid change in study grants and student loan law, many people feel that their legal sense is violated, and once the law enters into force, the study grant and student loan law will be brought into line with the principles of legal certainty. Persons who began their studies before 1 July 2009 and who did so by believing the financial terms and conditions offered by the State can complete their studies under the conditions in force at the time. The amendments shall remain valid for those who were aware of the changed conditions when entering university or higher education. Approximately 6.4 million euros per year and 3.2 million euros per year for parents are needed to compensate for student loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-19_U5	Speaking chair, Kadri Samson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-19_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I will hand over the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act. This bill will ease the tax burden on self-employed persons. As statistics show, the number of self-employed has recently fallen significantly. On the one hand, this is due to the mandatory re-registration of self-employed persons in a commercial register, which deleted self-employed persons who were no longer active. On the other hand, the number of self-employed people has fallen significantly as a result of the economic crisis, because if you look at the unemployment fund's data on the unemployed, we see that a considerable number of people who have officially registered as unemployed have given themselves a job before being self-employed and have been self-employed. As of 1 March of this year, only 34520 self-employed persons remain in the register, almost half as many as three years ago. Our aim is to make a form of entrepreneurship such as self-employment more meaningful or, at least, more meaningful than today, to ease advance payments and make the same exception as farmers, including professional coastal fishermen. This draft law provides for an additional tax exemption for self-employed fishing of up to EUR 2833 per year for the realisation of self-fished fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-19_U7	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Here's the announcements. On Wednesday 20 April, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Culture Rein Lang. It is also reported that yesterday a regional policy support group and a Valgamaa support group were formed, as well as Estonian-Croatia, Estonian-Georgia, Estonian-France and Estonian-Ukraine parliamentary groups. Today, after the plenary session, the opening meetings of the Estonian-Dutch and Estonian-Albania parliamentary groups and the establishment meeting of the Taiwanese Support Group will take place in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. 95 members of the Riigikogu have been registered as present; no 6. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There are no points of discussion planned for today's sitting. I wish you every success in the committees and in your work. The session is closed. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
