ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the third working week. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Call chair to Heljo Pikhof, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U2	Madam President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act and the State Family Benefits Act, which we want to change the maximum amount of the allowance provided for in the Parental Benefits Act, replacing the entitlement to the allowance for the calendar year by a double of the amount of one calendar month's income subject to the average social tax calculated in accordance with the procedure approved by the Government of the Republic. At the same time, the allowance for a single parent child provided for in the State Family Benefits Act would be increased to seven times the amount of child benefit. In other words, we want to start paying EUR 65 instead of the current EUR 19. An in-depth analysis of the Estonian social programmes published by the OECD in May 2010 showed that the small amount of money that is allocated to social benefits reaches the pockets of people who are quite well-off instead of those who really need help. Of all the taxpayers' money distributed for family benefits, 59% goes to five wealthier income groups, while statistics show that the majority of children are growing in just five poorer income groups. Support for families and the distribution of money to the richest part of society is largely due to the parental benefit regime. At the same time, 38% of single - parent households are poor. In short, single parents, rightly their children live in the worst situation we have, and we want to improve that situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. On Wednesday, 28 September, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu. And there is also the following: today, after the plenary session, there will be an opening meeting of the Estonian-Belgian parliamentary group in the Chamber. It's called by Andres Herkel. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Eighty-four delegates have been registered as present, and 17 are missing. Let's clarify the agenda. Today's second item, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, discusses § 402 of the Draft Act on Supplementing the State Budget Act 95, will be presented by the initiators by Eiki Nestor, member of the Riigikogu, and Aivar Sõerd, member of the Monetary Commission. Today's fourth item of the agenda, the draft law amending the Holidays and Holidays Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, is discussed in 52, is presented by Priit Toobal, a member of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. Today, one draft decision and four draft laws are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U4	The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Ensureing compliance with the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments'. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to present to you one of the euro area stabilisation measures very much expected from the global economy, the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF). I do this in the conviction that it is not possible for Estonia to take the position of an indifferent observer and rabbit driver in resolving the debt crisis in European countries. It is the most burning concern of the European and global economies, and without our consent this solution would not be born. I sincerely thank the Riigikogu for its very understanding, for the understanding that this matter is very urgent! Unfortunately, we have to admit that the recovery from the global financial crisis and recession is coming to a halt. Experts see the ability of European countries to serve their debts and the associated risk of infection to others as the main cause of the economic climate cooling. Investors as consumers have therefore lost the necessary confidence to contribute to the economy. The crisis and delay in decisions in some countries in the euro area are a threat to the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U6	The waitress asks for attention and quiet in the hall! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. A very important subject, please, let's hear it!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U7	I'm sorry. I'm not asking for attention. At present, the mere fact that for years budget deficits and debt increases have been overlooked is no longer helpful. Slips and reforms that are already being realised are not enough, weaker countries also need time and loan aid to survive the restructuring process. In the spring of 2010, when Greece's problems were finally put on the table, it was clear that general crisis prevention and resolution instruments were needed in the euro area and coordination of economic policies had to acquire new quality. As Greece's problems and their impact on the euro area were acute, an urgent solution was found in the form of a Greek credit mechanism. Bilateral loans from euro area countries were agreed. Estonia does not participate in this mechanism. The EFSF was thus also established as a more systematic solution for three years, as some countries seemed to need help and firewalls. The maturity of ideas was also followed by the establishment of a permanent European Stability Mechanism (ESM), which should replace the EFSF by 1 July 2013. An agreement has just been reached with the European Parliament to implement a strengthened fiscal and economic policy coordination framework. Thus, since 2012, there are no more excuses for deregulation of public finances and there is a tendency not to call countries with economies back on track. Reform of the Stability and Growth Pact strengthens preventive fiscal surveillance, debt reduction and macroeconomic surveillance, broadens the range of sanctions, sets minimum standards for national budgetary rules, procedures, forecasts and fiscal statistics. My firm position here is that countries cannot be satisfied with reducing their budget deficits to 3% of GDP, the objective must be balanced or surplus budgets. Only then can we seriously talk about crisis prevention and debt reduction. The basic truths of the Stability Fund are as follows: It is designed to ensure the stability of the euro area under strict conditions. It provides exceptional loans to Member States in the euro area or, under the new mechanism, participates in the first and secondary purchases of debt securities by other mechanisms, other stabilising measures, preventive loans and the capitalisation of banks. The EFSF is a temporary private mechanism as sanctions will be taken over by the European Stability Mechanism established under European Union law in 2013. Thus, the EFSF does not provide non-repayable aid but loans in a situation where the beneficiary does not have access to normal sources of funding. This poses a threat to the stability of the euro area as a whole. The financing capacity of the EFSF will be secured by guarantees from its shareholders. The support instruments issued by the EFSF amount to a maximum of EUR 440 billion. The EFSF itself has an AAA rating and its 440 billion will be covered by the AAA countries alone, while others will actually participate as a solidarity statement. Two countries, Ireland and Portugal, have benefited from the EFSF resource. Both of them have demonstrated that the time bought with the support of the EFSF has been used effectively, i.e. a consolidated budget, structural reforms and the restructuring of the financial sector. Ongoing monitoring confirms the operation of loan-backed programmes. The stability of the euro area and the European Union is also an important guarantor of Estonia's economic well-being. Our primary interest is to avoid the spread of the crisis. The effects of the crisis come to us primarily in the form of a reduction in export demand and a deterioration in financing opportunities due to financial market uncertainty. As a member of the European Union, we have enjoyed solidarity in the form of non-refundable assistance, in addition to the opportunities offered by the internal market. We must be prepared to respond with solidarity to all other aiders in this case, after all, we are talking about guarantees and aid loans, i.e. non-refundable aid. Support also means a heightened right and a duty to demand change, and that is what we are doing. Estonia's share capital of EFSF is EUR 48000, i.e. 0.26% of the total capital. This breakdown is based on the European Central Bank's participation in capital and all euro area countries participate. Estonia's participation in the EFSF commitments means a willingness to provide guarantees of EUR 1.995 billion. The origination of collateral liabilities can be divided into three parts. With this decision, we confirm the readiness to issue guarantees amounting to EUR 1.995 billion, to accept the programming document underlying the intervention of the EFSF, the loan programme, the bond purchase programme, the recapitalisation programme of banks, the granting of powers to the government by the Riigikogu and, thirdly, the granting of a real guarantee to finance the disbursement of the programme by the EFSF. Two prerequisites are essential for the functioning of the EFSF: it must be used very quickly and it must be used with the broadest possible political mandate. Both conditions are fulfilled in the draft decision. The draft submitted to the Riigikogu guarantees the decision-making power of the Riigikogu. The same procedure, where Parliament approves the general limit of guarantees and the government's specific loan programmes within this framework, is also in place in other euro area countries. On the issues raised by the Chancellor of Justice, I see a solution in the following: The adoption of this decision could require at least 51 votes in favour. This is not an indisputable argument, but it certainly mitigates legal risks. In addition, clarifying the provision of the State Budget Act on financial stability so that there is no doubt that the debt crisis and the problem of financial stability are inseparable. Once again, I would like to make this clear: it is not something very new and inevitable, but it also mitigates the risk of legal disputes. Next: If necessary, the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu may specify the competence of the ELAK or any other committee in decisions relating to the EFSF. In my opinion, the preamble to the decision could refer both to the obligations relating to membership of the European Union and to the section on financial stability of the State Budget Act. Undoubtedly, misleading use of words should be removed. However, I call this a misleading use of words rather than a substantive error in the paragraph of the judgment, if I am not mistaken, it was 3 or 4 that said that the government would decide to grant the guarantee. Of course, this wording is misleading, not the government, but the Riigikogu still provides a general guarantee. Finally, I would like to stress that neither Estonia nor our partners are handing out non-refundable assistance with this measure, but we are defending ourselves against the spread of the crisis and giving the countries time to clean up their homes. We are very demanding borrowers, and this is also a guarantee that the guarantees we have given will not be collected. In conclusion, I can only say that responsible fiscal policy is of paramount importance. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U8	Thank you very much. There are a number of questions for the Minister of Finance. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U9	Thank you. Minister of Finance! First of all, I thank you for finding the time and will to accept the invitation of the Central Party Group and for giving us very thorough answers to your views on this matter. However, some of the questions remained confusing, and one of them is that if Estonia provides a guarantee for the loan, the guarantee must also be prepared in order to ensure that the borrower is unable to fulfil his obligations and, in fulfilling his obligation, it turns against the guarantor. Where does Estonia take this amount, nearly 2 billion euros? If this claim is against a guarantor, the amount must be partially paid within two business days? Where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U10	I, on the other hand, thank you for inviting me. It was a unique experience for me, too. But I guess I explained it to you in the group. Of course, there's a lot of information, it's very hard to watch two hours in a row. But we're not talking about 2 billion. We are not talking about 2 billion or the need to withdraw this amount within two banking days. We're talking first, let's start over, over-guarantee. We actually guarantee a maximum of 1.2 billion. But this over-guarantee is necessary. Those countries that do not have an AAA rating are responsible for this, in reality, the total volume will first fall to 1.8. Next, if we now look at the life expectancy of the EFSF and assume that the EFSF will last for two years, according to its current estimates, this time is rather half as short, then the most recent forecast of the EFSF itself, taking into account the new measures, is that 1/3 of this 1.2 will be in progress within two years, i.e. 400 million for Estonia. It is expected to spread between three countries at that point. Currently, there are two countries with 58 billion programmes, Portugal and Ireland. In the case of these countries, no one predicts insolvency of this magnitude in two years, not even in one year. Seriously, you can't predict that. They're doing great. If Greece is added, there are three countries. But still, that 400 million would be divided between three countries. The two banking days that a wise guy was talking about here, it still means the time of the EFSF's own loan payment. That doesn't mean the state says it's over now, it can't pay anymore, and then it's worth two days. No, there are periods of notice, and the EFSF, which itself generates the money supply, announces, if I am not mistaken, the same two business days in advance. But this need is much sooner to know. Where does the state get that money? I still stress the value of responsible fiscal policy in this context as well. We have reserves and we can handle these payments. We have the ability to borrow, and we can handle this payment. It's not gonna get us out of the way. A good colleague, Jüri Ratas, after almost a four-hour conversation, also sat in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, made a statement that we are talking about savage sums that are beyond our means. This is not the kind of money we're talking about! And the issue of this 1.8 billion is still accounted for. This is feasible for these countries and is feasible for the whole mechanism. It's a very unpleasant thing, there's nothing to be happy about, but it's manageable. And this readiness is to prevent more damage. To avoid any higher losses, I would stress that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U11	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U12	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It's interesting to hear what you're saying, because it's fundamentally different from what our scientists have been saying in the media every day recently. But okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U13	Specify who these wise experts are, then I can answer and comment!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U14	I wanted to ask you this: the question is extremely important, whether it is now 2 billion or 1.2 billion. Please tell me, Mr Minister, why did you start dealing with this matter so late in front of the public and the Riigikogu? Why couldn't we come together this summer and talk about this thing? Why do we have to do this in the last week, when there are two days left to decide on the question? Why such an arrangement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U15	I've had it all along. I've been acting as fast as I can, and I've been sharing information through the press for at least over a week. After all, there have been meetings of our Eurogroup, there have been constant inquiries by journalists. I've been giving information all along, in writing, in the microphone and in the camera, all the time. As far as the moment is concerned, as far as the moment has been agreed, I can tell you I know no doubt more than I can talk about, that I've also been careful. I haven't ruled out the things you can imagine. There are politicians who rule them out, I have not ruled them out. And as far as this procedure is concerned, I've brought along a graph that might show up at my lazy time. At the same time as we join the EFSF, the EFSF will be updated, which is why these dates are very important. On 26 August, the new text of the EFSF was obtained, prepared at specialist level. On 29 August, the draft was received at a confirmed telephone conference at the level of the Eurogroup working group (EVG, short for professionals). The final text was sent to ministers for signature on 30 August. But now it's my lazy time! I haven't had a day's rest, I've acted as I know it, but unfortunately it was also necessary to translate this text. It must be an impeccable legal translation and this translation took place between 30 August and 8 September. So the first day that it was possible to bring a matter to the government meeting was September 8. You could say that you should have checked if you had a translation pretty much finished, that we were going to have an emergency government meeting. But it couldn't be done. I don't think rushing would have made sense. The translation must be impeccable and confirmed by the government on 8 September. In fact, this mandate was essentially given to the Minister of Finance and my signature was received on paper the same day. Again, the question was whether I should have asked for the Riigikogu to be convened on the same day. I think that would have been an exaggeration. The first day of the convening of the Riigikogu was September 12th, and on that day the Riigikogu received this document in its own proceedings. I don't really see the possibility of faster action here. Indeed, there is a lot of talk about EFSF, but that is not fair. At least our two mouths are already tired of one being me and the other is the Prime Minister. We've talked about this endlessly all the time, including at a government press conference every week. I've offered to ask you about it. Somewhere else someone's gonna say something. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U16	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U17	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! Please tell me why the government thinks that it is possible to help live and chronically insolvent European countries simply by giving them more money. Perhaps using an allegory familiar to you: why are you giving a fish instead of a fishing rod this time? Why would Estonia, which has made huge cuts, raised a great deal of taxes and frozen wages, help the countries that have borrowed themselves irresponsibly? This is how we face the sense of justice of our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U18	I sincerely thank you for your support for responsible budgetary policy. I very much hope that this side of the hall will remind you of all these words during the budgetary procedure and regret the reproach that has been made on the budgets in the past, all of which are Greek. But yes, I do, however, thank you for your attitude on this issue is correct. In my speech, I actually answered it. We're not giving money, we're giving time. This money is in the form of a guarantee, and under this guarantee, countries will have time, they will receive money to survive this period, let's say this. We're not going directly to give them our money. We give them guarantees under very strict conditions so that they can finance their deficits and come out of their debts. Now, why do we think that? There are two very good examples: Ireland and Portugal, which have very quickly improved their situation and responded quickly to the deterioration in the situation. These two are currently the only EFSF customers. So it is not just the opinion of the Estonian Government; it is still an international position. There is no better option, and that is what experts are talking about. I'm not talking about educators chasing opinion leaders on the edge of vanity. I'm still talking about people who are knowledgeable and don't talk about it more than they know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U19	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have repeatedly mentioned that things are changing very quickly and that some of the next steps you may have anticipated. On the news this morning, I heard at least twice, half an hour apart, that it would take two trillion euros to save the European monetary system. This does not directly concern the EFSF, but it is still a question of Europe as a whole. Is it not that instead of this 1.995 billion, we will soon have to write, for example, 5 billion to participate in the total?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U21	Rumors are hard to comment on. Have the radios spread them. One proactive attitude I have had: I have never ruled out any kind of expansion of this system. But what is now known is very little. There are no agreements and one truth that has not been overturned in my eyes is that there is no need to ask Parliaments for more mandates. Since this leverage, which will be created, will be created without broadening the current EFSF mechanism. But situations change, I have to be careful what I say. I don't know how to describe this scheme yet, but tonight I'm a lot smarter. Today is one very important conference where groundbreaking views may be presented, not yet public, but very informative for me. I would remind you that out of this EUR 440 billion, Greece and Portugal, the two customer programmes are only 52 billion. The EFSF still has a lot of strength. The new Greek programme, which is likely to join, is in the order of 109 billion. I wouldn't exploit that two trillion, and not two billion in our case. These are both hypothetical figures that certainly do not apply to us. This extension does not apply as a burden on the taxpayer. They are not intended as a burden on the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U22	Thank you. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U23	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! It is clear that financial stability is important. After all, the EFSF provides guarantees primarily to banks that have lent to different countries, in particular Greece. After all, the EFSF itself is a fixed-term instrument for us today. This raises the question of how long the guarantees given to the banks are. The EFSF itself will end at a particular moment and what will happen to these guarantees? As we know, in the case of a public limited liability company, it can happen that the board of directors decides and the government cannot have a say in this, that we know and do so instead of doing so. What about these guarantees in two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U24	We are still talking about granting guarantees to countries. The area in which agreements are open is private sector involvement, form and volume of private sector burden. This will pass through stones and stumps, but it is clear that banks will bear a proper burden and that it has not yet been decided to bear this burden, but it is not excluded that EFSF guarantees will also be imposed on the instruments they replace. Banks can't get their money at the time they were hoping for, they can't get the interest they were hoping for, and they can't partially get the amount they were hoping for. I cannot be more specific now, because it is generally time for critical decisions. I don't want to spread rumors.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U25	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I think you are absolutely right when you say that we must work for our own financial and economic security at all, because the success of the European economy is very important to us. There are now several steps in the Greek package. We have not been involved so far, the EFSF is today's topic and must be taken separately. The ESM is essentially in the same sequence. At the same time, you say that it is not possible to see these steps very accurately. Let's say you can go step by step, but it's generally understood whether these steps take you up or down the stairs, there's still some sense. Now that the government is prepared to decide on the amount of the guarantees, can you say with certainty that on the basis of the moves that have already been made and the stories of the finance ministers, there is no indication of willingness to give up full national independence and to change the treaties?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U27	Thank you. This is a fundamental, if not a dramatic, question. Indeed, national independence is not disappearing; it is simply that we, in some ways, collectively fight for our financial, economic vitality, which can also be called independence. When the crisis spreads, the decision-making of the countries will still be seriously undermined; the Riigikogu will no longer be able to make political choices about the budget. He just needs to respond to the situation. We have a good lunchie. One side of our good neighbour's situation is that they have come out of their crisis impressively, almost like us, but the other side is still that they have given up a large part of their independence. In essence, they were under international leadership. We were more of a dictator of decisions to them through the IMF and the European Commission. What's there to deny is a very painful fate for the country, and no one should want the same for themselves. This is, of course, a real threat to independence. At the same time, talk about a single economic government, etc., is merely a demonstration of powerlessness. In fact, domestic budgets are primarily a matter of domestic responsibility, and collective action should focus on what the framework for reform is approved: that such situations should not arise and that firewalls could be built. EFSF is the building of a firewall of the same kind around countries in crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U28	Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U29	Thank you very much. I'd like some information. You just mentioned that Portugal and Ireland are already so-called EFSF customers. I'm interested in how this chain of command works. Is it that the state gives an indication that yes, we are in trouble and ask for help, or is there some organ that says: you are in trouble, you must get help? How does this range of need, prayer, and fulfillment work?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U30	Rather, it is a necessity and a prayer, not an order. A concrete example is Portugal, which simply had an election in its way and which postponed the request. In short, that is the answer: yes, help must be asked. By stretching, Portugal deepened its problems. But the new government has so far shown a very clear eye and action. Politicians are often election prisoners, and this example must also be seen with understanding. Dispute solutions may fall victim to an election campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U31	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You and I both comply with declarations of economic interest at least once a year, and if I had any guarantee obligations, I would have to write them down with the loan leases. The same is true in the company's accounts: the guarantee is in principle a debt. I have a question, exactly two questions. Is Estonia's guarantee obligation reflected in the budget as a debt or something else, or is it reflected elsewhere? And the other part of the question is: if we have such a commitment, how does it affect our sovereign rating?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U33	First of all, as you have seen, the time before our accession brought us a huge improvement in our rating and this was a great contrast to the fall in the ratings of other countries. We've been running budgets together here. I recall that the budget provides for the maximum amount of long-term loans allowed, the maximum amount of short-term loans allowed, the maximum amount of loans granted, the maximum amount of the budget loan authorised, the amount of the cash reserve and the amount of the budget revenue allowed for financing expenditure in excess of budget revenue. The state accounts also record those guarantees issued. In general, credit rating agencies appreciate whether problems are being addressed. In this case, risks are addressed, and it is rather a rating-enhancing instrument. The burden we get is modest compared to our borrowing capacity, our reserves. We are the country with the lowest loan burden in Europe. Even if those guarantees were to be realised, we would still be. Now, compared to the European average, this is more than the size of the lower loan burden we have. This shows that, in fact, countries can operate, albeit with difficulties, even in the case of a larger loan, which is not desirable, but which is not yet fatal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U34	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U35	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a question about the procedures whereby a country in distress, if it is unable to repay its loan, is declared insolvent. In such a bad scenario, we must actually realise our guarantee and accept the outstanding loan that is being transferred to us. What are the relevant criteria and what is the procedure when a State is declared insolvent?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U36	Oh, I don't know how to describe all these bureaucratic instruments and I don't have to. But the point is that if a specific loan payment is not paid by countries regularly to cover their bonds and loans, that is the signal. The EFSF does not immediately turn to the Member States, because it also has its own resources to survive such moments. But, of course, if the guarantees were to be realised, this does not mean that these loans will be written off. No country is currently taking such a stance that it guarantees by calculating the loan that it will give up this money. On the contrary, these mechanisms are based in principle on the principle of preferential lending for both EFSF and ESM, i.e. the first to meet the debt claims of these instruments. In any case, the claims on the State remain with the State. I am absolutely convinced, and whether the sale of assets or the very long extension of loans are solutions, not that, for example, the Germans say in their Parliament that, listen, we are writing off this country's loan, it is easier for them to do so. No, nobody wants to do that! Nobody's going to do that, I'm absolutely convinced.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U37	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U38	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Today we are talking about the framework agreement on the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) set up by the euro area finance ministers. But have the finance ministers of the euro area also set up some preventive organisations to prevent financing difficulties in the euro area countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U39	First of all, the clarification that the finance ministers are not alone in the story. It is still a major international undertaking, which will eventually be endorsed by the Heads of State. And this system was last updated on July 21st. From this prevention mechanism, I also said that the new measures will be in place for the coming year. Countries will be in place in the future, and not only in the event of an excessive deficit, the procedure for reducing the deficit, even in the case of too slowly falling loan burdens. They will be macro-supervised. If imbalances are found, they will be followed by injunctions up to sanctions. The 'European Semester' will be in place, then it will be a pre-coordination of budgets. Countries will be able to establish statistical forecasts and budgeting requirements. You can't just write the wrong numbers in the statistics. These procedures are subject to very strict supervision, and will be examined as to whether the forecasts are realistic. That system was included in my report. The focus has always been on prevention and setting conditions, not on the realisation of any guarantees. It is a wholly hypothetical situation that guarantees will be realised. In order for prevention mechanisms and homework to work, the state needs time, as well as liquidity. The ability to pay is dealt with in depth. We believe that this thoroughness could be even greater because our own affairs have been more conservative. But these are political compromises.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U40	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Both the Central Party Group and many legal scientists have taken the view in recent days that this draft does not comply with Estonian laws and the Constitution. Indeed, we do not have a legal basis for adopting this decision. At the same time, it is also contrary to the spirit of the Constitution if we want to give the government the power to decide on each individual loan. My question is this: do you agree with these remarks? And if you agree, do you intend to bring this draft into line with the law on the same points I was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U42	The short answer is no, because the laws are made by the Riigikogu and the draft decision can be amended by the Riigikogu. But in my speech, I referred to a few points that need to be adjusted. I'd like to see the lawyers who make such statements, as you read here. On the one hand, it is clear here that lawyers tend to have more opinions than they do. And even in the opinion of the most authoritative lawyer, there may be contradictions. I'm not going to point the finger at you right now, but one of the great authorities of the last few days has presented me this morning with a black, white, principled contradiction in the assertions of another great authority. What is more general, however, is not a sound legal framework for an international undertaking such as the EFSF, indeed there is no legal framework in Estonia. This does not mean that this mechanism has no legal basis for not being professionally drafted. I am still of the opinion that, based on § 65 of the Constitution, the Riigikogu can make decisions. Just as it can amend the framework law on the state budget in terms of guarantees, it can also give guarantees according to this clause of the Constitution. But indeed, the framework law on the state budget is a mechanism that is not specifically designed for such things. If there's any interest in her regulating such things, you have to see what section it's written about. I certainly do not agree that it is a good solution to add an international, very exceptional and very specific private instrument to the list of national guarantees as if we were going to participate in national public limited companies in the future. Basically, I do not think that such a provision is necessary in the framework law that will soon be discussed here, but a point which is now talking about intervention in the form of guarantees, too, in the interests of financial stability, could be clarified. We could formulate this section in this way, I have these texts if the Riigikogu is interested in it, so that it is clear: when dealing with the sovereign debt crisis, we are dealing most directly with financial stability. Just a little bit to adjust this point, because it wasn't meant for some EFSF when it was formulated. But the country has been given opportunities to deal with financial stability in the framework law. We're not really without instruments. At present, just the international obligations and arrangements that we have also necessitate a step-by-step revision of the Estonian Code. We still have a sufficiently waterproof structure right now, before we adjust it, but this waterproofness can be further improved. In other words, our laws can be further improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U43	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U44	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. That's my question. I fully agree that time is difficult and even critical, every morning can bring about a new situation that requires urgent decisions. But have finance analysts taken into account even the worst-case scenario? Where, however, does the limit of our financial agreements go, from which we will no longer be able to join and guarantee?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U45	I'm not the one who says here, and all forever. Situations still need to be assessed in a specific context. Right now, I can tell you that there's enough of this 440 billion for a while. There is a clear minority covered by the plans, and we do not need to talk about extending the whole mechanism. Indeed, however, the idea that, through leverage, without asking for the mandate of you as a representative of taxpayers and voters, we could send a more resounding message in the future that we have even thicker and higher firewalls at hand is the subject of separate discussions. And these discussions are on the horizon for me. I don't have anything to say to you. I cannot say that there will be nothing new, but I still predict that increasing the volume of guarantees with the parliamentary mandate is unlikely.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U46	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, you could say a little more about what is a public limited liability company registered in Luxembourg, which operates under a private framework agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U48	I haven't seen him. I'm going to Luxembourg, I'm going to Luxembourg again at the beginning of next month. What do I know about him? I know who's leading him, and I know we're sitting at a table with him. But I already mentioned in my speech that it was a legal body created in a hurry in the spring of last year after the Greek relief package. There was no time to set up an international organisation under European law, say the European IMF. However, there was an urgent need to intervene. At the time, Ireland was clear about the need for intervention, while Portugal was slowing down with prayer, although it was also clear. But they had an election ahead of them. So a new legal body was needed. It was done with a joint decision, but his time will be brief. I do not recommend writing such a design into a law that requires at least 51 votes in favour during the next item on the agenda. This was an emergency case and there is no need to enter such a precedent in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U49	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, To date, assistance packages for countries have been available to implement national economic programmes. Countries have promised to reform their economies, control their budget deficits, etc. At the same time, when it comes to lending to countries to recapitalise banks, there must probably be some different requirements. Who will decide which banks will be recapitalised and on what basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U51	That's a difficult question for me, too. The European Central Bank (ECB) is the main body responsible for banking. But these institutions are in different combinations who make decisions here all the time. When finance ministers meet, the IMF has been at the table lately. He participates all the time. For this 440 billion, too, there are 60 billion additional contributions from the European Union budget and 250 billion additional IMF assistance. In the case of banking, the central bank is probably the most important institution, but it will take its decisions in cooperation with the European Commission, the IMF and the Member States. In more detail, I wouldn't try to introduce these decisions, you will understand that there is a division of responsibilities here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U52	Thank you. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U53	Thank you. Dear Minister, Yesterday, there was news that Olli Rehn expressed the view that it might be necessary to increase the volume of loan guarantees. At the same time, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble has said that we are using the EFSF efficiently and that we have no intention of increasing its volume. Yesterday, the media was also talking about increasing to 2 trillion. What's your assessment this morning? Would it be necessary to increase this volume and, if there was a need to increase it, would you like to receive a mandate from the parliament of the Republic of Estonia that this increase will be decided only by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U54	I have answered this question several times here: I do not now expect Parliaments to be asked for a mandate to increase its volume. On the one hand, little use has been made of its volume, on the other hand, it is clear that there are economic and political barriers to increasing it. However, different mechanisms will be considered to increase this impact through leverage. Olli Rehn and Schäuble, in a way, seems to me to be talking, but I'm having a hard time explaining right now. I don't want to comment on any more rumors.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U55	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have quite often heard such a phrase from you that there is no living for the future. In this Chamber last week too, when you commented on next year's budget, you said it was irresponsible, etc. Do you think the current draft decision is not living for the future? After all, hypothetically, we may need a loan of two billion at some point in time, and then we do not know what percentage, under what conditions and for how long it has to be taken. My question is: is this draft decision not living at the expense of the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U57	No, it's a reaction to living for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U58	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U59	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You confirmed that the EFSF would be included in the state budget in accordance with the law. However, please specify at what point this possible financing transaction will become a cost for us and how it will be accurately reflected.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U60	I guess it would take a change when it's done. But in describing this hypothetical situation endlessly, I do not see much point in this construction of accounting rules. I guess you can sense it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U61	Marika Tuus-Laul, second question, please! Where's Marika Tuus-Laul? He's not here. The next questioner is Ülo Tulik.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U62	Good minister! In the light of economic logic, it seems to me that the Estonian coefficient is too high. When we became a member of the euro area, a large part of the loans had already been granted to Greece. How did this coefficient pass to Estonia and did Estonia fight for a smaller coefficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U63	This was about loans issued earlier. First of all, I would like to comment that Estonia is still participating in the loans granted or guaranteed after its accession. And Greece is not currently a client of the EFSF, so we are saving from the past. This key will never be what it is according to this equity participation. This participation was based on the key to the European Central Bank's participation, while the share of Estonia was 0.26%. It will be halfway around population, half of GDP. The relatively poorer we are, the more we like the key that counts the population, and the richer, the less we like the key that counts GDP. So, in time, our interests will change. But it was decided, if I am not mistaken, in May 2010, before we joined the euro zone. Did we fight? Yeah, we fought. And quite honestly, I can tell you it was a fight. As soon as the ESM was designed, we challenged it. The decision stood behind us for a long time, and when I say it very simplisticly, we got a key that is much more favourable to us, where the differences between countries are smaller. While at the beginning our gap with Luxembourg was 3 to 4 times the difference when talking about the EFSF, in the ESM, our difference is very much smaller, we have more calculated GDP. At 87,5% GDP has been taken into account and the rest of the population. But once again, if we are among the richest five, we have the opposite interest. Don't fight too much. It is not worth fighting too much for the eternal growth of structural resources. Someday we'll pay more than we can. In any case, such dependency is not in the interest of Europe as a whole either.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U64	Thank you. They're both right! 0.26 is the initial proportion that currently applies to the capital in which our contribution is EUR 48000. Since the two shareholders of the capital became assisted, this proportion has increased by 0,02 percentage points in the guarantee key. Actually, the slightly rounded numbers are both, but yes, the guarantees we give, if you still come here to help, by the size of the proportion that we share in the capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U65	This concerns only those loans that will be issued after our accession to this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U66	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U67	Please, Lauri Laasi, next question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, They say whoever reminds me of the old thing has an eye out of his head, but I do. I have asked my colleagues here, and no one will recall that you would have talked about the problems of the euro before you and Mr Ansip went to Estonia with the euro. Why did you hide that there would be a lot of problems with the euro and that we would have to pay big sums?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U69	But why do you lie to your constituents with such accusations? When were the decisions to join the euro area taken? The last decisions were taken in spring 2010. They were preceded by our request; they were preceded by the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria. In particular, they were preceded by the accession of the European Union, one of the conditions for joining the euro area. We had nothing to hide because nothing had been decided or known. There was nothing to know about this happening! That the fire would return to the fire, and that such aid packages would be created, none of these ideas were realising. They came up very quickly. However, I can say that I remember very well my mission when I became a minister of finance. In a lot of performances, I started using slides that reflected European debt problems. Very many have seen the state of Estonia as compared to other countries, given the debt burden, what are the deficits, how they develop, what happens if countries do not act, what countries have acted, etc. So I talked a lot about the problem myself already in 2009 long before the government believed that we could join the euro area. I've been talking about this since the summer of 2009.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U70	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U71	Thank you. Good minister! A few weeks ago, the officials of the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Monetary Affairs stated that, despite the opinion of the financial markets, there is no financial crisis in Europe at the moment. I hope that this ostrich head hiding in the sand has decreased or ended, and you have also discussed inside your house what the next steps could be after this EFSF. This EFSF is probably a necessary thing, but it does not really solve the financial crisis. What are our views on possible solutions, such as Eurobonds, central bank money printing or other options that have been proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U72	What I can do when the Riigikogu has other matters to attend to was said about self-irony. I myself have often done other things in the Riigikogu. But when I'm here, I'd still like to talk so much that I can hear you. As far as the people in front of the house are concerned, these are people misguided. As far as I can see, they operate with wisdom on the cover level of the Evening Festival. That's the cover I heard in the newspaper review, I haven't seen it myself. I can tell you about the evening, I have the impression that this printery has been broken into by morons. Who presents such numbers in such a form, and why is it necessary to scare people like that? Their fear is now at the door of the house. I don't know whose voters these are. I hate to say this, but they are rather voters of the parties sitting on my left, or they are not voters at all, who are simply distrustful of the country, whose eyes and ears are closed, and who only read the headlines of the Evening Page. I regret that the press has taken such a tone and that such opinion leaders, who think most and know least, have been overwhelmed in the papers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U73	Thank you. Please, Indrek Iron!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U74	Thank you. Good minister! The problem that we are talking about is called a social state in Europe, built at the expense of the future, just as we built at the expense of the future in 2006-2008. We too did not come up with cuts and structural reforms; we came up with tax increases and other EU countries' subsidies and other aid packages that helped us export. Now we must show solidarity and do this to prevent the collapse of the financial markets. Should we hold it, don't know. But we should be legally correct. I would not refer very much to this left-hand side, because one party of the Social Democrats of its own has helped us here to be legally correct with this state budget improvement law. Unlike lawyers in the Ministry of Finance, however, the other lawyers feel relatively unanimous that this procedure should be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U75	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U76	The question is that if it turns out now that all the other lawyers also think that the Riigikogu must give these guarantees, how we should act then. In this case, is this possible in practical life or is it impossible to do so in accordance with the constitutional order of Estonia...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U77	Thank you, your time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U78	I've been trying to talk like this, though, that my thoughts are clear and traceable. This casting, which came from there, contained very confusing allegations of tax increases and legal irregularities. I have talked about how our budget was straightened out, and the share of tax increases in it was microscopic, nor was the European Union's money a fundamental solution to the budget deficit. As regards the legal solution offered by this side of the hall, I have already said that it was not a good solution and it was not an inevitable solution. It is such a political compromise and also a legal compromise between sometimes very conflicting positions of lawyers. I am still of the opinion that there is no need to write into the basic law of the state budget such a very peculiar matter as the public limited liability company registered in Luxembourg has some general form of the section on national guarantees. I'm still in that position. In this sense, it is not aid. The help is simply that we have one legal instrument, a bill on which we can speed up the process. And here I am really going to say thank you to these draft authors for helping them after insulting some of the draft authors. They will help speed up the process, and I have never seen such assistance before that the opposition is ready to deal with a draft as a matter of urgency. Although I do not want to use the same word that they were using completely unfairly on this draft decision, they are ready to correct it and deal with it. Because of this, the authors really have a deep bow. As far as legal expertise is concerned, as far as we can add it, this expertise must always take into account that it is a financial world. Some general legal principles are not enough to design meaningful regulations, and there must always be a little more precise knowledge of the subject. We'll help you with that. But I couldn't follow the question because I felt I was being accused of something I wasn't guilty of.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U79	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U80	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to clarify one detail, which is probably also due to rapidly changing circumstances. I followed your presentation closely and you mentioned Estonia's participation of 0.26% as a result of so-called burden sharing, but I recall that your officials also confirmed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that since some countries have become "guarantee providers" already beneficiaries, our percentage of participation is now 0.28. Which one is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U81	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! Has your opinion on the legality of the draft decision changed in recent days? And if so, is it the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It has emerged from this debate that one of our goals is to ensure the stability of government bonds and certainly also to improve competitiveness. Usually in such situations, several institutions play their role: the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, the parliaments and governments of the euro area countries. I ask: if working committees go to countries in need, how many of their decisions will be listened to and who of these institutions will play the first violin? Is it a currency fund or the European Central Bank or someone else? After all, we all need affordable bond interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U84	I wonder how many times you can ask me a question. Where's the border? We are now talking about the EUR 440 billion EFSF, plus money from the European Union budget, plus half their contribution to the IMF. There's no reason to speculate! What the news agencies are saying, I've commented on several times. These are spending stories, mechanisms are undeveloped and undecided. This is probably not about the 440 billion EFSF, but about the new leverage mechanisms, where it is not necessary to ask Parliament for permission. But these decisions will still be made gradually. At first, there is a lot of firepower in the EFSF, well over half, if we consider that all Greek money, which will have to be paid out in the near future, should come from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U85	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I am sure you must agree that this fund will buy time. But time is not really the solution, the solution is debt cancellation. I'm asking you: it's out of the question that someone's debts are being extinguished from this fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U87	If I were to decide on my own, I'd say yes, that should be ruled out. These plans are still based on the principle that no one will be given money. Not to give away looseness and inadequacy, but mechanisms have been put in place to demand borrowers and make them reform themselves. What exactly is that about? A lot is said that these countries are uncompetitive in southern Europe. Even competitiveness is being pursued, opinion leaders do not have to mock so many empty words. Broadly speaking, their competitiveness is largely unopened. If there have been strong restrictions on competition for a long time, further economic activity is expected if they are removed. If the Labour Code is too rigid with regard to the labour market, changes will be required. This is a reality, by the way, and all these requirements are in the programmes of these countries. Further, cuts in the social system, which hinder competitiveness in a way that does not encourage individual efforts. There are also some outstanding privatisations in southern Europe. This means, on the other hand, involving the private sector through investment. If there are huge loss-making public companies in these countries, these companies must be sold. But where money is now taken to pay for loans, that is a very substantive and good question. For example, when we are talking about the Greek programme, I repeat that Greece itself is not a member of the EFSF, the second programme still has a sale of 50 billion public assets. Money received for the assets sold can immediately reduce debts. This is not enough, but it reduces the interest burden. When we talk about the budgetary situation in Greece, the Greek Minister for Finance has said over and over again that there were 24 billion primary deficits in 2009, 10 billion in 2010, and that there are only 1 billion primary deficits this year. What's the primary deficit? This means that there is a deficit where interest payments are not taken into account. In short, if there is a primary surplus at the moment, as is the case at the border, then the money is not only for paying interest but also for reducing debts. That's what the primary surplus means. It's not so bad! It is just that the burden of debt itself is so great, and this people and politics are extremely inert about change. It creates fundamental opposition. Fears are not so much linked to whether the current budget is improving as to the situation that has already arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U88	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U89	Thank you. Mr. Minister! My thoughts are fertilized by your colorful use of words. When you look at the nightmares, you get the feeling that there are morons that have broken into the printing house, don't you get the feeling that in Greece there are degenerates who shouldn't be given money because they don't understand how to walk around with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U90	The publication of feelings in this Riigikogu hall is not a slippery way, but every politician will certainly gain fame by describing his feelings. Like all of us, I am amazed at what is happening on the streets of Greece and what is their mentality, but there is no way we can say that there is a majority of society on the streets of Greece. It is still basically left-wing, or let us say politely that the attitude of the extreme left-wing trade unions. Now, let no one in this Chamber think that I am marking any political direction here in Estonia. But this is a long-standing manifestation of problems and frustration, which, of course, engulfs society at large. If there is obviously a welfare debt and this trend needs to be sharply reduced, we should realise that it is not so easy to do so. It is very difficult to accept this in countries where decisions have always been made. We embraced this because we were chosen by strangers, even though we suffered a much more serious decline in living standards than Greece was currently threatened. Much more serious! We survived because we knew we didn't decide. But it's very hard to admit your guilt, it's easy to blame the helpers, which are proudly done. But once again, we are discussing the EFSF here. Greece is currently not a customer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U91	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! You said here earlier that the EFSF will restore credibility and put an end to the fire in the euro zone. Personally, I agree with you that he, in a sense, restores confidence. But will he put out the fire? Absolutely not. As guarantees, we actually give a very large amount of support to the euro area, but in your speech you give us a guarantee that this guarantee will not be turned against us as commitments. This means that we do not have to make any financial contributions. Do you have any analyses or other data that you rely on to confirm that this is not happening? Maybe you're hiding something from us. Why don't you tell me more?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U93	I agree with the formulation you started, in a way. That the EFSF restores confidence and turns off the fire, it's not my language. It is one of the necessary tools. I'd rather talk about the firewall and the opportunity to deal with the fire where he's come from. Now, personal guarantees of my salary cannot be granted. You know that, you've given me a salary, you haven't given me that chance. But I will say once again: the likelihood that we will have to pay something will be made as small as possible under the conditions that are being presented to the countries. And even after a bad case, no one's due, I'm absolutely sure of it. I have no reason to think otherwise. However, I am not, of course, a hiromant, either, and I do not know what kind of political change the world may face in the future. That's right. The guarantee itself, I repeat, is something that can materialise. This means a situation that could get worse. Otherwise, the guarantees would not be shared.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I have the feeling that we are at least looking at this issue here in Estonia at the wrong angle. We want to give guarantees, loans to countries in trouble. At the same time, we are a poor nation with a small economy and there is little money of our own. Do not these countries need hard-handed politicians who, in difficult times, make difficult decisions, cut down the economies of these countries and, most importantly, explain things to the people in such a way that there are no demonstrations or other unrest? Is there no other way for Estonia to contribute to this process? After all, we have a large number of prominent ministers, politicians, Mart Laar, Andrus Ansip, and you yourself are a determined and hard-handed man. Is there no other way to help these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U95	Thank you. That's such a nice compliment I'm saying here. But for one reason or another, these societies have not produced sufficiently demanding and self-critical voters. They have also failed to produce strong enough decision-makers among politicians. In the case of politicians, it is not a loss of professionalism, but a lack of decisiveness. And it still comes from a wider society. If there has been a country for a very long time, then sometimes there is no real clarity as to where problems arise and how they gradually accumulate. In general, after the war, optimistic faith in endless progress arose, and it has gradually accumulated. Hence all kinds of rhetoric, all kinds of social standards, which are written down somewhere, and which will prove too expensive one day. It is not just a question of whether we spend too much or too little, but of building a society that is, in principle, too expensive in Europe, more expensive than we can afford to pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U96	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ligi, thank you for your morale reading, but my question was benevolent. Of course, this issue has been discussed in the Riigikogu on quite a number of occasions, both in ELAK and perhaps in other committees. For example, the numbers have changed 20 times and the debate has not been with the Estonian population. There has been no such opportunity, and that is why the media may not have understood everything exactly, as you referred to today. However, I repeat my question: if there is a need to guarantee what you think is right for the Estonian state to start with, either from reserves or from loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U98	Ah, that was the question. I thought you were asking why there were no debates. In fact, there have been debates, we honestly acknowledge that there have been. But even the constitution suggests that not all things can be the decision of the people. We have provided information, been open to keep the public informed, but in the end we must take responsibility for making unpleasant decisions. And make them, for example, in the field of finance. It's written in the Constitution. We cannot assume that the last citizen is aware of the financial truths. But the question was where to get the money. This is a question of the State Treasury, which budgets we can draw up. There are certain principles, buffers that we build. We need to know what response time we need in case things get worse, and therefore we will decide whether we are going to deploy reserves or whether we are going to use loans. But that is not a question in sight. The insolvency of any country in need of assistance is not an issue on the horizon. It is therefore absolutely impossible for us to give an exact answer to the question of whether a loan or a reserve. Depends on what kind of budget we make, it depends on when the problems culminate. But they would rather not culminate if we all do our job well in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U99	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U100	Good minister! The European Union has 27 Member States and 17 of them have the euro. And now these 17 countries have decided to put together a package of assistance and help countries in need so that financial markets do not fall. At the same time, we know that if financial markets fall a lot, all 27 Member States, Latvia and Lithuania will suffer alongside us, even though they do not use the euro. It seems to me that we cannot talk about the right solidarity, because the non-eurozone countries are not participating in this package. That is why I still have a hesitant feeling of whether we can be sure that at least these 17 countries will continue to show solidarity and give Parliament's approval to participate in the aid package. Please name the countries that have already given Parliament's approval. Who are they? Before, you mentioned whose decision you were questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U101	I can read these countries in a row, but I haven't learned the dates. One of the first decisions was made by France and Luxembourg, which is all I have remembered. By the time we discussed it, it was, I guess, on the 15th, the three countries had decided, I think, and immediately joined the fourth. Whether the fourth had already decided at the time or not, I don't remember. But it's gone on this graph that these answers were between 27 and 29. And nothing can be ruled out when it comes to the parliament of a democratic state. The lack of solidarity cannot be ruled out either. Unfortunately, there is also a very large amount of such a raspberry message from home today that joining the euro zone is no longer accepted as an obligation and it is said that we are still looking at it. Such comments have been clearly rehepapitic. They have come to deny them, even from Latvia, where the government has quickly denied them. The euro is a large and joint undertaking, a right and a duty at once. Everyone wins because there's a single currency. Those who are not in the euro zone have also relied very effectively on the euro as an anchor in the crisis. Some have won the short-term devaluation of their currency if the volume of the internal market is large enough to sustain the economy. But it's a real rhyme and parasiticity when people start saying that, oh, we have problems here in southern Europe, and we're still wondering if we're taking on our responsibilities or enjoying only the wins. It's true! Solidarity in Europe should not be as selective as it is today for some countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U102	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U103	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Minister of Finance! The customers of EFSF are also Ireland and Portugal. Will Estonia's surety, which we hope to discuss, at least in part, in the future, if the next countries fail, extend afterwards to Portugal and Ireland?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U104	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U105	What kind of decisions do you mean exactly? Member States, the IMF countries as well as the European Union and the euro area Member States still have a leading role to play, including the European Commission. They're our instruments, they're not our bosses, our bosses, our spiritual leaders. They're not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U106	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U107	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U108	Unfortunately, you operated quite freely with terms, and in that sense I cannot confirm that our officials have said something wrong. The financial crisis is a matter of definition. What we need to talk about now is, above all, the sovereign debt crisis, which is threatening the financial system. The fact that banking is in a deep crisis is not, but the risks are up. Stress tests are being carried out all the time, worried all the time, and if the bonds don't prove reliable, it's a blow to the banks' capital stocks. As regards the claim that this instrument does not deal with the financial crisis, when it comes to the crisis in the financial sector, the EFSF, as I have already said, is also dealing with this. And it is the most directly involved, and that is why I am saying that the Section for Financial Stability in the framework law of the state budget is the right place to refer to in this decision if you are to force the framework law of the state budget into this decision. This is precisely the question of financial risks, financial stability, which starts with national debts. This obliges banks to monitor capitalisation and is resolved through public finances. The EFSF, as has already been said, has new instruments, in addition to these guarantees, to use the purchase of bonds from the primary and secondary markets, to prevent loans when the State still serves debts, but has a sense of tension and distrust in the markets. Finally, as has already been said several times, capitalization of banks is, after all, a direct commitment to financial stability. I really do not understand why the next draft refers to some other section rather than to the section on financial stability in the framework law of the state budget. I have also explained this in the Commission that the introduction of a very temporary, very unusual instrument as a general rule of the section of guarantees and a precedent for the future, I do not think, is necessary at all. If you want to do this for a year or two, I will certainly respect the competence of the Riigikogu, and I will only say my opinion, in particular, should point out that the sovereign debt crisis is a matter of financial stability.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U109	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U110	Thank you. Dear Minister, There's something I wanted to clarify. Your introductory speech was about the misuse of words. When the draft states that the Government of the Republic decides to grant guarantees, you mentioned that the Riigikogu is likely to replace it. Did I get it right that, in principle, any guarantee coming from a specific support programme will be given to the Riigikogu in future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U111	In my report, I mentioned that this quite naturally papered phrase, 'government decides', is misleading in this case. It has to be worded differently because it gives the impression that the guarantee will be decided by the government in its entirety. No, the extent of the guarantee is decided by the Riigikogu, as it should be. But we could also clarify the Rules of Procedure Act and define very precisely the powers given to the government. However, it is well predictable that three countries will soon be customers of the EFSF. They need to redeem their bonds every month, they can't borrow from the market, they don't have reserves anymore, and they never really have most. It is absolutely impossible for us to make the Riigikogu a slave and executive of this EFSF, who is always discussing the matter. He'd have a loan payment on the agenda every week. With all the competence that the Riigikogu has, it still does not have enough to do so. And the interest doesn't get too far, and soon the hall will be empty and everyone will be embarrassed. Again, we are discussing how to transfer EUR 5 billion from EFSF to Ireland, Portugal or anyone else. This should not be taken by the Riigikogu. However, the point of dispute is whether the Riigikogu plenary should have the competence of ELAK. I would like to stress here that ELAK has done very effective work with the EFSF, discussing this many times. The plenary session could consider once again the wish for the programmes of individual countries to be discussed in the Riigikogu. I think it's pretty risky. On the one hand, it will, of course, open a very broad path to populism, and it will certainly overestimate its interest in the matter in some ways. It could be in a different form. For example, when you look at the debate on the state budget, it is not really about the livelihood and effectiveness of our country, about the structural emphasis, but about whether the salaries of one or another of the popular interest groups are going up, etc. Imagine now that in the same style we are going to discuss the Portuguese budget. It should be the same style that we are applying to our budget. It's gonna be embarrassing! What is this critical place? It is that the EFSF instrument will be a very operational and very confidential matter: buying bonds from the secondary market. This must be done very quickly with a day or two, and if we start talking about some sort of Riigikogu meeting, committees, several readings, it is, of course, a disaster. Nothing's gonna happen, one leg's been cut off on the EFSF right now! Consider it! I can't put my hand in front of you, but I think you could trust more of your professional committees, where there are the most qualified people in this area. And you could have more trust in a government whose fiscal policies are in a clear contrast with the current fiscal policies of countries in need of assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U112	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U113	Good minister! Following this, I would like to ask: does not this Parliament decide in any other country of the European Union? Is that what the government is doing in all other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U114	I do not have a final list, but I would argue that the overwhelming scheme is that Parliaments decide on the overall volume and governments are talking about countries that have now given a direct answer to this question by making individual decisions. It's an executive act. This should not burden a public representative with a million other problems. The strictest system known so far is in Germany. They're going to have this one constant debate. I would really feel sorry for you if you were to be here every week, even in the summer, taking into account the necessary quorum and force ratio and discussing another payment. The general programme of Portugal or Ireland is something that can, but it is not practical to discuss the total amount, I think. We have other forms of work that you can use to get the information you need, exactly in the amount and at the time you need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U115	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Perhaps the next question seems a little simple to you as a financialist, but that is what my constituents asked for. Namely, Greece is claimed to have 111 tons of gold in the gold fund. Estonia has only 200 kg of gold. Doesn't it look like the Great Peter is going to eat Little Peter's bread first and then enjoy himself in his own proud loneliness?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U116	When we were reading the fairy tale, all kinds of things seemed to be real to us. We saw dragons and witches and large and small Peeters. At the moment, however, I am saying that there is a big, strong brother and some small and weak family members who are now supported. I do not foresee a situation where these aides would waive their claims. That's not to be expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U117	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U118	Good minister! First of all, I would like to say that you do not have to worry so much about the work of our members of the Riigikogu. I think you have enough of your own work and concern and how many payments are made to within the framework of the guarantees could still be the competence of the Riigikogu. But the question is something else. How many countries have already approved, at Parliament's level, the decision to grant these guarantees? And do you think that there might be a situation where some parliaments do not approve of granting guarantees? What will happen then and what will be done to these countries? Are there any sanctions being applied?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U119	Mrs. Palo! I'm looking around this hall right now and I don't find any people, I found one! Who would have been in Parliament longer than I was. I myself, too, if I argue with my people, I am also a member of Parliament, I have a mandate, I worry about how this whole thing works. I will never oppose Parliament. As far as European countries are concerned, I have indisputable information from the previous ECOFIN meeting in the middle of this month: with a few exceptions, the finance ministers confirmed in the poll that they were trying to do this at all costs in September. This has also been a very clear expectation of the IMF, the World Bank and international markets. The sooner this response comes, the better it will be for the security of the markets. Now from a few countries with problems. At that point, the best result in Estonia was the last of October 12th. In this sense, I sincerely thank the Riigikogu's management, members of the Riigikogu and the committees who listened to this cry for help and took into account the arguments that it was urgent. I've been giving these lessons. Countries still have problems in the Netherlands. Their answer is insane. They were hoping to be ready at that point on the 5th or 6th, but the time has passed and I don't have any fresh information. After all, Parliament was not sitting at the table, it was the government. There have still been concerns with Slovenia's determination. They've got constitutional problems there, they've got government breakdown. It is very difficult to say what a national parliament with a broken government can do, how quickly to act and what motives. And there is Slovakia, which has very clearly opposed itself through the media to indebted countries and their assistance, in fact having been in exactly the same deficit for several years as these countries. But his debt burden is low and therefore he has been financially viable. Countries are different, the will behind the table is one and understanding one. In fact, it's very fast, there's really no room for such self-preservation. The markets are waiting! The markets only talk about this every day, when will the decisions come. In conclusion, I think it will also reach representatives in all countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U120	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U121	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I want to thank you first. It's really good to listen to you, you're talking about substance, not "so and so" style. So thank you so much! But here's the question. I understand that you have a very tense day today, that's understandable. At the beginning of your speech, when there was a big buzz in the hall, and Mrs Randjärv asked to be quiet, you said such a reply that you did not want attention, but rather silence. Understood! But look, when we all came to this house today, there was a seal outside the house. When we look at today's pages, every page has a big question mark on the front page about the decision we are going to take today. Does it not seem to you that the decision that is to be made in this Chamber today is actually against the will of our people, our taxpayers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U122	I have had very fruitful discussions with our top lawyers, including the Chancellor of Justice, Mr Maruse, Ülle Madise and other people who closely monitor this particular area and its legal framework. Do not underestimate the fact that law is also a specialist area. And I have started to look at it more broadly in this sense, with the help of Mr Marust in particular, that our legal framework has been established long before, of course, I knew it myself, too, before joining the European Union and before the euro zone, especially before the fundamental renewal of the euro zone, which is currently taking place. There is no impeccable mechanism for implanting the euro zone into our law. We can ease these crickets and crackles by means of political and legal compromises so that as many lawyers as possible share the same view. We can do that. This, too, is one of the strong points of view that you have in your draft decision. But there are really different opinions, for example, that in terms of legal certainty at least 51 votes are necessary, not necessarily, but precisely from the point of view of legal certainty, that the basic law of the state budget should also be adapted to the whole new situation for us, this new situation is the use of the single currency, that fiscal policy and monetary policy still have so much impact on each other today that both governments and central banks should adapt to it legally and we should broaden the provisions of the framework code on financial stability. It has always been clear that financial stability is guaranteed to us internationally, also through different channels, but it is now well-established that public finances and financial stability are inseparable. We are solving public finances on the one hand, but we are preventing a deeper financial crisis and recession on the other. My opinion has widened, I have been extraordinarily prepared, by the way, for myself from the very first few days. I think with these drafts, we'll get to the mountain nicely with your help.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U123	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good minister! Estonia's participation in the guarantee fund came relatively unexpectedly. All kinds of discussions on this subject have not been held, and now if Estonia needs to guarantee these failed loans, which of the options proposed is the first state loan or reserves to be put into operation? And if we continue to think about it, what area does Estonia have to start cutting the budget in this case? Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U125	Mrs. Tuiksoo, you shouldn't have read the first part of this question! You speak against yourself! You are a full member of ELAK. ELAK has discussed the EFSF seven times before its draft was born. You have been an extremely gentle opinioner and attentive listener. You blame yourself if you say there has been no debate. I have discussed this very much in the press, given the answers it has all been said. This has been discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have had to argue in conversations. It's all been done! And there's a debate going on here. If, now, at the end of the second hour of the debate, you are going to say that there is no debate, I must admit that you have simply not participated. How else do you get to the exact same point I've started? I've given you these answers. You wouldn't listen to it if you were tossing it like that. It's such an auntial attitude, the government doesn't say anything, and I don't know anything. I don't understand anything. You have a duty to understand and at least ask in time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U126	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U127	Thank you. Good minister! I did not understand a little about the previous answer: do you think that the current debt crisis will turn into a financial crisis and does the EFSF, in the amount that we are dealing with here today, rule out or prevent this possible change, or do we need some additional aid mechanisms?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U128	What do you think the financial crisis is? What concepts do you operate with? I don't know. In the 'official' sense, the financial crisis is still a crisis in the financial sector, and I have been saying this all the time that sovereign debt crises are currently threatening the financial sector. Due to the threat to the financial sector, access to finance for investors and even consumers will be reduced. All of this is part of the great threat of recession and, as far as the adequacy or inadequateness of the EFSF is concerned, no one needs to give definitive answers on this issue. Do not demand such categorical assurances from me that you can reproach me in a year's time, for example! That's not my style! I see the picture relatively much wider and farther ahead than most, but I must not speculate on any rumor and pour oil into the fire. There are many known downgrades of banks. Can the Minister of Finance tell the Riigikogu that European banks are in a crisis, a very bad situation? It's not my job! It is not my job to expose and amplify their problems, I can only assure you that the stress tests themselves will produce relatively good results for European banks. They produce particularly good results for Nordic banks that dominate our market. Speaking of mechanisms, EFSF is only one point on the wall when you look at all this activity, which has also been part of my work, right? For a long time, the central bank has been pumping huge sums into the banking of certain countries. It's all action, it's all a plan. We cannot say that EFSF is enough if it is only one instrument. The liquidity of the banking sector is still provided, in particular, by very large central bank liquidity injections. Very many European banks have been rescued by taxpayers' money and guarantees. This situation is not normal, but it is not the financial crisis we had in autumn 2008. We are still trying to avoid a repeat of the same situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U129	Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. It is clear that if we are a member of the European Union and of the euro zone, we will assume certain responsibility for all collective action. That's my question. What are the concrete consequences, including legal and fiscal, if we decide not to adopt draft 90, of not granting guarantees?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U131	Well, let's just say it's the most acute instrument. We are excluding the central bank now because it itself is in a very acute situation all the time; these liquidity injections are extremely operational. I can't even tell you the legal consequences, but in general it would have very sad consequences, because the world economy wants to know whether Europe can cope with its debt crisis or not. Why there's no decision, they ask every day. The main question of our website on at least one page yesterday was as much as I could see if the decisions would come. Today, a great opinion leader on the radio spoke some very wise things, but he still does not understand that a crisis measure must be kept separate in terms of its administration, in terms of firewall, and fundamental changes that are being made at the same time. These were mentioned in my report. To say that the EFSF does not solve fundamental problems is formally correct. But that's not his job! However, if the EFSF is not realised, the fire will spread throughout the house, that is the problem. We need a firewall right now. We need to give these countries time to put out the fire. Other countries come to the rescue with their money and credibility, and in this sense it would be extremely difficult if one of the 17 countries, the smallest, simply whistled very hard to come agreements in the international arena, if our Parliament would say that it really does not need this thing here is just Greece, but we are dealing with pension payments, and that kind of crap.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U132	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U133	Thank you. Very much has been said today about the concerns of European countries, but have we also thought about how much the Estonian state can assume its responsibilities? In today's draft, this rate is 10% of gross domestic product and one third of one annual budget, but news agencies say that these guarantees may not be enough for financial stability. Where is the border for the Estonian state? How much are we able to give guarantees in terms of the amount or percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U134	Thank you. Dear Minister, The EFSF was originally intended to save small and peripheral European countries in the event of possible emergencies. However, much has been said in recent days that this 440 billion may not be enough, and also that the increase in guarantees may jeopardise the ratings of the guaranteeing countries. What is your assessment: how much can Estonia alone and the eurozone Member States collectively provide such guarantees without endangering their own ratings?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U135	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U136	Sometimes the decisions of credit rating agencies have been contradictory. I'm not a rating agency, and I'm not arguing with them. I think they do their job professionally, and governments don't have to argue with them and say they're actually confusing everything. But it is clear that at expert level, it is recognised that they have sometimes aggravated problems, sometimes reacted late and over. They often miss their problems, just as they did during the booming season. In the projections, I would not underestimate the fact that the EFSF is a stabilisation measure that will help the whole of Europe. I believe that credit rating agencies still consider this to be a very important argument. Even if a particular country with its own burden exceeds some threshold, the ratings of the European countries as a whole will be supported when this system becomes operational. But is that enough? I've been saying here for a long time that there's been a so-called small minority marked out of this fund that there is room. And I also do not know about the plans to ask the parliaments for a larger volume. I can't rule out these plans, but they're still rumors. I guess I'm gonna keep trying the phrases in question all the time, some key minister who's been categorically opposed so far, you can say at some point that I'm not really gonna rule it out. How am I going to refer this to you in Parliament? You can't! It's a costar phrase, that's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U137	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U138	Thank you very much, manager. The Minister of Finance used the word 'parasitery', which is part of Soviet propaganda. That's my question. Have post-communist euro-zone countries such as Slovenia, Slovakia and Estonia, dominated the command economy, been consulted on the issue of EFSF guarantees? Have you been sitting together as former socialist states?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U139	I don't know this Soviet system very well because I built a high wall around me at the time. Quite sincerely: I came out completely clean! We all were brainwashed, but I don't share the vocabulary of this propaganda and all that association. I do not consider the former socialist countries, the VMN and the Warsaw Pact countries to be close allies. What have I done? I have gone to Slovakia to speak with other countries and share my experience. I have not done so in Slovenia. What other country did you offer? In general, we tend to be on a relatively different side with these two countries. Our fiscal policy is much stronger and, in our Euroscepticism, much weaker, we say so. We have never been so keen on Europe. I think that no party sitting here has been as critical as we hear from there, and yet we have been more careful in our household.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U140	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I base my question on the story on EFSF published in Indrek Neivelt's blog the day before yesterday. He asks if Estonia should give this guarantee, and he says that if anyone came to the bank manager with such a guarantee, he would be sent back quickly. What many say is that it is not money, it is a guarantee, it is embarrassing to listen. Risk is a risk, whether you give a guarantee or a loan. The public authorities also require banks to assess the same risk and equity for both guarantees and loans. If the bank manager explained to the Financial Supervision Authority that this is just a guarantee, not a loan, the Financial Supervision Authority would ask the bank's shareholders to replace the manager. Do you agree with Neivelt and, in the current situation, should Parliament not treat the head of government in the same way as the bank manager in Neivelt's example?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U142	I think the decision has already fallen on this point. Bankers aren't good for politics. I don't know any exceptions except for central bankers. This logic, as if the same principles apply to loans in banks and the public sector, is still absurd. Banks issue money for immediate profit, countries in principle merely to ensure public service. There's no profit going on. And it would be very strange if I came to Parliament to talk about 2 billion: that, you know, we need 2 billion, separate me. I can't talk about it because I've only come to ask for a guarantee, that's what I'm asking for. Everyone knows that the background to the guarantee is the possibility that it will materialise. How can I talk differently? How can an opinion leader blame a government for such a thing? Since this money is not guaranteed for profit, it is not governed by the principles of governance. You don't have to let anyone go! It should be released if the problems on which the public service is dependent were not addressed. But there were others there. I really left them unread in a hurry and sent a message to Indrek, that's all. He's actually a very bright thinker, but he could think less and know more.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U143	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U144	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The French left-wing opposition was known to win a historic victory in the Senate elections last Sunday, which, according to experts, means that the next president is on the left in France and the whole country is taking a left course. One of the lighthouses of the business community, businessman Jüri Manor, said today in the frequently quoted Evening Paper that the next Prime Minister of Estonia is on the left. This is my question to you as political minister. Aren't you afraid that this week in this Chamber, a hurriedly pushed-through decision, which was still not widely discussed in public and the results of which the people are just beginning to understand, could be fatal to the IRL and Reform Party government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U145	Thank you. Estonia is a small country and solidarity is much more important to us than to the big countries. How do you assess doubts about European solidarity from different countries? How do you assess the impact of these doubts on Estonia's longer-term prospects for both social and economic development?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U146	I didn't really think about it. How do I assess the state of solidarity in Europe in general, was that the broad point of the question? And how does that affect our prospects? Well, that's a multi-pronged question, isn't it? First of all, Estonia has been one of the most solidarityable, not only in financial terms, but also in terms of non-refundable aid in terms of volume, but also in terms of political solidarity. We still recall that we are also part of the European Union for greater security policy reasons than the majority of the European Union. We have also received political support for specific problems. How will this decision-making mechanism currently being created affect Estonia's fate? I think there are some problems programmed here in other countries. The very complex mechanism that has been set up in Germany puts the entire European aid mechanism to the test that the well-known Euroscepticism in some countries with a slightly similar status may in future block collective decisions. We are all influenced by one community and influenced by their solidarity. In any case, the question you have raised is not a very broad and simple answer to that. This topic is highly multi-pronged and multi-dimensional.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The European Union has recognised you as a good minister of finance. Certainly the subject we are discussing today is, in a sense, historical and very important. You have considered this seriously, and you have answered and said a great deal about it at all. You've made a decision for yourself. When you made that decision, did you also think about how Jürgen Ligi will look back on today in 10 or 20 years and the decision you made?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U148	It's not a personal decision. And we'll all look back on our lives someday. How can I put it? It's one of the things I even thought I could write down my memories and feelings. Honestly! I've already made some page notes so that memory wouldn't be cheated later. But it's not a matter of personal life. It's just interesting how decisions fall and what affects them. There is no need to talk about 20 years in the case of EFSF; we can see the effects of EFSF within two years. But the broader European framework that is now being created has a very long-term impact. And with a longer-term impact, what is being done about Europe's competitiveness. All of this, to some extent, also concerns monetary policy. However, as far as European competitiveness is concerned in general, I think that Europe will be in a different position in the world in 20 years' time if it does not change. Right now, he's changing a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U149	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U150	Thank you. Good minister! We have been saying for a long time that Estonia provides guarantees to EFSF amounting to EUR 1.995 billion. However, both ELAK and the Committee on Monetary Affairs mentioned that the Ministry of Finance actually has such a forecast, which part of this almost EUR 2 billion will quite certainly go to guarantee. Could this number be repeated again? You always know the bill very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U151	Yes, it was the same sequence that was actually mentioned in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Sounds a little bad, but we'd rather have operated with 300 million, and with this morning's knowledge, I'd be operating with 400 million. The EFSF makes its forecasts all the time and these instruments are expanding. The effect of this change in instruments is difficult to take into account. In two years Estonia would guarantee programmes of EUR 400 million instead of EUR 2 billion. Once again, it must not be compared to any one-year budget! They are divided into several countries and are individual payments and redemptions of bonds that are guaranteed. These are certain decisions concerning new instruments. It is not really the case that this will materialise in one financial year in all countries. It's absolutely impossible to imagine!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U152	Please, Rainer Vakra, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U153	Thank you. Let me get this straight. When the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the matter last Wednesday, we talked about 300 million in reality. It's been five days, these days are readable on the fingers of one hand, and 100 million more have come: 400 million. If we were to discuss this next week in this Chamber, would it be 500 or 600 million already? How does the Ministry of Finance's assessment change so quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U154	You didn't get it right. You got the tail on the word, but I was just being open. On that occasion, you caught us by surprise with this question and we had not updated the bill. But on the basis of that question, they got refreshed. The EFSF will be updated and therefore the forecasts will be specified. There have been assessments of how much it would be necessary to buy securities according to market conditions, for example, I suppose, I have not examined this mechanism. The impact of this debt crisis on the financial sector has been reviewed freshly. After all, we are talking about the capitalisation of banks through the EFSF. And if we were really just talking about the old scheme, or guaranteeing loans, then everything would be very simple. Then it would be about knowing how much has been issued, and we could be much more precise. But that time, yes, the answer to the question was to provide outdated data. But you got a new one today in a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U155	Madam Chairman! Honourable waitress! On 28 September at 12 noon, the deadline for the submission of proposals for amendments is set. Now I have a question: will everyone who wishes to speak at second reading of this draft decision, members of the Riigikogu, get the floor, and will the hearing continue until everyone who has wanted to speak has been able to speak?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U156	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission mention that this decision, which we are discussing here today, will hurt the sense of justice of the Estonian people? I ask you personally: will you vote in favour with a light heart, thinking about your parents' pension and the pension for those living behind the path, which we will now support?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U157	Thank you. I attach great importance to this issue. The commitment amount is EUR 2 billion, with a potential of 2.5 billion. That is a large enough amount of money, and it certainly involves a great deal of responsibility. I can say that we actually dealt with these issues with the Reform Party Group in the spring and did so intensively. The question earlier was whether Eesti Pank and other institutions were involved. During the spring session, we invited representatives of the Eesti Pank Group, and we also invited a member of the EFC Group. This is a question that I dare say has been able to deal with for a long time. I have already mentioned the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs during the summer. Does it hurt the sense of justice? After all, we can talk about Greece having survived beyond its means, and these countries themselves are responsible for the situation in which they have come into being. But I am also informed that these countries have understood the gravity of the situation and whether there are quite radical decisions to be made under pressure from donors or from their own government and parliament. We have heard about the large-scale layoffs of public officials. It is worth pointing out that, although Portugal delayed the adoption of the aid which caused them harm, Portugal and Ireland have benefited from the aid loan mechanism and have had a real opportunity to re-establish their public finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U158	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, The explanatory memorandum quite accurately describes the financial difficulties faced by Greece, Ireland and Portugal. My question relates to whether the financial and economic situation of other euro area countries was discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U160	Thank you. The Commission's format does not allow for a very thorough discussion of the state of play of the countries involved in granting the guarantee. There were questions about Portugal, Ireland and Greece. There were questions about Italy. The problem with Italy is that, according to our understanding, the country has an unreasonablely high loan burden, but the Italian situation is far from comparable with Greece, because their balance of payments is better and the economy's export capacity is better. Italy has already taken steps to cut budgetary expenditure. But these were the few countries that were spoken of. The whole spectrum could not be discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. For my part, the Riigikogu continues to pay attention to the state of finances of all countries in the debt crisis, as well as of guaranteeing countries. The way it sounded here before, there's new news every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U161	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U162	Thank you for your question. The Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act is applied, as it is laid down and formulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U163	The Committee on Finance can write it in peace. I just realized that ELAK was designed to coordinate decisions taken at European level in an operational manner with Parliament. There are all the political groups, there are certainly people who perceive European affairs above average, who are always watching this topic. On the other hand, I think that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs are of similar interest and are certainly wise in finance. I do not believe that there are such claims that we are now putting a third of our annual budget into play. Honestly, with that story, you can go to that door next to the poster holders. Once again, these 2 billion will be reduced to 1.8 billion in the short term, first for a few years, and then to 400 million. I stress: it is a guarantee. And I stress: it is three countries. It is unimaginable that all of this materializes as a risk. It's unimaginable! Even this, let alone some third of the annual budget. I'm sorry! I'm sorry, or take two chances on the poster.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U164	Thank you, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi! You've been on the remote for two hours and 15 minutes. Thank you! The Reform Party Group has proposed to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 27 September until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. According to § 48 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, I put the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party to the vote. We're preparing for the vote! I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 27 September until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no one is against or impartial. The proposal has therefore been adopted. I would like to ask Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for the next presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I would first like to thank the Minister for these thorough explanations. The difficult question certainly became much clearer. Now to the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Finance Committee discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on 22 September, to ensure the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments. The meeting was attended by Andrus Säälik, Head of the Macroeconomic Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Aet Sallaste, Head of the Legal and Administrative Department and Merle Wilkinson, Head of the Legislative Order Service of the Ministry of Justice, Karmen Vilms, also attended. As a listener, Jüri Ratas was present. The Minister gave the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs a thorough overview of the issue, and he also paid quite a lot of attention to the complexity of the current situation in the global financial system. The Minister also spoke about the efforts made by the euro area Member States...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U166	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for silence!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U168	...to make these decisions during September. The Minister mentioned the problems that have arisen in Slovakia, but, according to the Minister, there is still optimism that countries will be able to deal with this in September. The Minister spoke about how the EFSF was created (I am not going to dwell on it, he was going to talk about it again today) and repeatedly stressed that helping other countries, lending by the EFSF to countries in need are still intended to give these countries the opportunity to put their finances and economies in order so that these countries do not go bankrupt and attract other eurozone countries and, if you wish, the whole world. The Minister stressed what is worth repeating here, that Portugal and Ireland are, in fact, good examples of the fact that it seems that the aid mechanism has already worked there and that countries have gained concrete added value and the opportunity to get their finances and economies in order. The members of the Commission had many questions. The chairman of the committee opened a round of questions with the question of how the future procedure will look in the Riigikogu. The Minister explained that Parliament provides a guarantee of overall volume and that the main instrument of Parliament's work is still the Committee on European Union Affairs, which approves the decisions of the Government. Once again, the question was that we are in a hurry, but how have other countries gone about this procedure? The Minister has already mentioned Slovakia here, but there were technical problems in the Netherlands at the time. So this issue was addressed. The question was how the system would work. In addition to the EFSF, there is the IMF, the European Commission. The Minister explained that the EFSF will have a wide range of functions and that the future work should be carried out with the IMF. As he said today, the renewed framework agreement adds instruments to the IMF, namely buying bonds directly and from the secondary market, preventative loans, recapitalisation of banks. Ultimately, the bigger problem is that, globally, we are facing instability in the financial sector. The situation has gone down to the fact that, for example, banks do not dare to borrow, which is a serious risk and requires all countries to act very quickly. Financial markets expect politicians to take decisions in the euro area. That opinion sounded many times. The longer topic was guarantees. The EUR 440 billion guaranteed by the Fund is actually an amount that includes additional guarantees. The purpose of the fund is to achieve the highest rating, i.e. the AAA rating. The highest rating is not known to be all countries participating in the Framework Agreement, there are six, including Austria, Finland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The question was what happens to those countries that have granted the guarantee but are themselves beneficiaries of the guarantee. The answer was that the guarantees they had issued in the past would remain valid, while they would no longer participate in the future guarantees, which would mean a change in proportions for others. One member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs asked why there was no talk about the problems associated with the euro, and now these problems are at hand, and what happens when the guarantee has to be actually paid out. Why do we have to get stuck here? As the Minister explained very patiently today, the EFSF will still be given priority and, firstly, debtors will still be addressed when the guarantees are realised. The main objective that is being pursued is for countries in need to reform themselves and get their solvency under control. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, matters of state law were dealt with at length. The Socialist Group had already submitted a draft law amending the State Budget Act, i.e. the Basic Act, to the Riigikogu's procedure. The long discussion was that it would be right to mitigate the risks if changes to the State Budget Act were introduced before the guarantees contained in the EFSF Framework Agreement were confirmed. The question was also about what this EFSF represents, why it was created as a public limited company, etc. A brief summary of the response was that the Member States were in a hurry. As I said, the financial world demanded swift decisions and this form was practical. The longer discussion was also about whether voting in the Riigikogu plenary requires 51 votes or a simple majority of votes. Here there were various opinions on draft amendments to the basic law of the state budget and lawyers of the Ministry of Finance. The representatives of the Socialists in the Committee on Monetary Affairs stressed that the draft EFSF framework agreement was important, this decision was necessary, but their main concern was that § 40 of the Basic Budget Act could still be amended. I have already said that the Members of the Commission were disturbed that this process has been too fast and that there is too little time to decide. The members of the Commission also had a question of how amendments could be made, whether the draft decision could be amended or whether the whole text of the framework agreement could also be amended, whether the framework agreement had been subject to legal analysis and expert evaluation. The Minister's answer was that the European Union Affairs Commission has discussed the issue of the debt crisis repeatedly at its meetings, that the framework agreement itself has been made by the European Union institutions on a consensual basis and that, of course, lawyers have been involved in this work. The members of the Commission expressed the opinion that a longer debate could take place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in order to discuss the alternatives. The question was that if there is a Stability and Growth Pact in the European Union that strictly sanctiones everything and should work, why are these mechanisms not working? Questions were asked for further purpose of creating such a parallel system. The Minister patiently explained, as he did today, that these measures are part of the comprehensive Stability Pact. Ultimately, the Stability and Growth Pact is also aimed at preventing degradation, but of course these mechanisms will not work to the desired extent when countries are already in trouble. The question was also about cooperation with Eesti Pank. There was an interest in what Eesti Pank thinks and what the European Central Bank thinks and how it is involved in this process. The answer was that the European Central Bank is the institution that has been rushing this process all along. Currently, the European Central Bank is known to add liquidity to the financial system, but this role could be played by the renewed EFSF. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that assistance goes hand in hand with the preventive and stability mechanism and explained the current procedures, which are excessive deficit procedures, and which measures have been added or are being added. It was repeatedly asked how this could happen, as in 2002 Greek statistics were distorted. How is it possible that we have been deceived and now we have to settle this? Actually, it's a bit of a simplified approach, that's the answer of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Six or seven years ago, Greek statistics were indeed in a very poor state. The Greeks themselves did not know what the economic situation of their country was. It is not quite right to claim that they were deliberately deceived. However, for example, the current situation in 2009 was worse than Greece showed. He knew it was worse. The question was that there are countries among the guaranteeing countries, such as Italy, which itself has a very high loan burden and has problems in servicing loans, and what happens if Greece's risks are amplified. The answer was that these risks are known, but the quality of the basic guarantee is still guaranteed by those countries with the AAA rating. There was also a question of debt recovery, of relations with bondholders. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the agreement is still between the EFSF and the Member States; it does not regulate relations with bond holders. I think I gave a thorough overview of the issues dealt with in the Commission. At the time, the Commission took a great deal of attention to discussing matters of constitutional law, i.e. whether it was necessary to amend the basic law of the state budget in advance in order to mitigate legal risks. Following the conclusion of the consultation, the Commission took the following decisions: Firstly, to call the speaker here the Commission rapporteur. A consensus was reached on this issue. Secondly, the committee proposed to put the draft first reading on the Riigikogu agenda on Tuesday, 27 September, or today. Eight members of the Commission were in favour of this decision, three against. Thirdly, the Commission decided to close the first reading. There were 6 members in favour of the decision, one against and three abstentions. Fourthly, the Commission decided to set the deadline for tabling amendments on Wednesday 28 September at 12 noon. There were 6 members in favour of the decision, one against and three abstentions. Fifthly, the Commission decided that, once the first reading was completed, the second reading would take place on 29 September and put the draft to a final vote. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour of this decision, 5 against it. The Commission also briefly discussed the proposal of the Centre Party Group to bring the issue of joining the EFSF to the Riigikogu as a matter of national importance. One part of the Commission argued that it required time, preparation, appointment of speakers, format. The proposal to put this issue into the debate as a matter of national importance was supported by 3 members of the Commission, with 6 against. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U169	Thank you. Very precise time usage, 20 minutes. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U170	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, My question concerns the Commission's attitude towards the Central Party's proposal, so that the granting of guarantees to this extent would also require hearing another opinion. You spoke about the Commission's work, about the Minister explaining everything very thoroughly. Did it ever occur to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that, in the case of guarantees of this size, the opinion should also be sought from, for example, banking representatives or independent experts? If this desire arose and it is thought that this matter of national importance could be discussed in a few months' time, would it not be too late if, within one week, the decision had been taken without hearing the second opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U171	Thank you. The Commission did not, in principle, oppose this debate. We will certainly be able to make this debate too, that is my opinion. On the other hand, the members of the Commission expressed different views as to whether or not the issue of joining the EFSF and the debt crisis in the euro area as a whole had been discussed in the Riigikogu. Several members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs are also members of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The European Union Affairs Commission discussed the accession of the EFSF and, more broadly, the issue of the debt crisis at its meetings in the summer of seven times. It cannot be said that there would not have been an opportunity to address this issue. The Minister today gave a date-to-date overview of when this framework agreement was completed by consensus between the euro area Member States. These were the dates of the end of August. It cannot be said in any way that we would not have been at a pace or were lazy in dealing with this specific framework agreement, from the day it turned out to be available to us. The Committee on Finance immediately approached the Chancellor of Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs after this meeting in order to obtain clarity and knowledge on how to mitigate constitutional risks. Today, the Chancellor of Justice has the answer and it will be very helpful to us. Indeed, if some members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs felt that they had not been able to discuss this issue sufficiently, then it could have been suggested that a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs be convened during the summer. Unfortunately, this proposal was not made.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U172	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U173	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a question: how do guarantee amounts limit Estonia's fiscal policy and the possibilities of using budgetary resources to solve other issues? My question is based on Euronews. The Greek Finance Minister has said that Greece will not be able to return more than 50% of the loans. Secondly, in the near future, it will be discussed to clear 50% of Greece's debts. On the other hand, it has been decided that, within two months, the EFSF will increase its resources from EUR 440 billion to EUR 2 trillion. Finally, according to Merkel, yesterday it was said that...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U174	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U175	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U176	Thank you. First of all, as far as countries in need are concerned, they will have additional time to avoid the worst-case scenario, as well as to improve the ability to repay existing loans, to undertake structural reforms, to improve the state of public finances. This will give these countries an opportunity. In fact, the Fund also forces countries to act; the loans granted are conditional. On the other hand, there will be an urgent call for these changes, which are essential first for these countries and, more generally, for the euro area as a whole. As far as our budget is concerned, our state budget for next year will reflect the share-purchase contribution of EUR 48000. The Minister spoke for a long time about our share of known loans amounting to EUR 400 million. This increases our debt burden, and that is the amount that is now known and what we need to guarantee within this framework guarantee. But, of course, when it comes to the beneficiary countries and their budgetary capacity, the problems have come to the point that these countries have due dates for the repayment of earlier loans. Repaying requires new loans from financial markets, but financial markets do not grant loans or provide them at interest rates that are unreasonable. Here, solidarity among the Member States of the euro area is needed in order to give these countries the chance to survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U177	I don't think I can. After all, we always prove to the world, if correctly, following the basics, Estonia has been ruled. We have followed these basics in different political combinations, but I can say that the situation that has developed has been, in a paradoxical way, one of the endless praises for Estonia's current governance. There are two kinds of reasons why we're going to help. One thing is simply the perception of economic mechanisms, which are certainly different between different political systems. Someone can sense social problems more strongly, someone more strongly, those they may depend on in the economy. What can I say? After all, the left camp provides completely different answers. Some say yes, there is a need for solidarity, others say no, it is necessary to be selfish. In fact, there are clear economic and political reasons why one thing or another is being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U178	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U179	Thank you. Mr Minister, I'm going to clarify a little bit about the previous question. I hope that you will respond well in concrete and precise terms, as you usually do. Are you excluding that, while you are the Minister of Finance, Estonian taxpayers' money will start to erase loans from a country?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U180	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U181	Oh, God... I think this is a legal issue, not a finance minister's question. My term of office is likely to be relatively short, as demonstrated by real political statistics. I really can't rule something out, I can predict something. I do not believe that the guarantees given by Estonia will materialise in the visible future. I still don't think there's any forgiveness for realizing them. No, in a civilised world there is an extension of debts, not a replacement with other bonds at most, and still a call for money. These countries, all of them in different volumes, but they also own assets that are required. Less liquid assets are simply put up for sale. Nothing will be forgiven. I really think that countries will not allow themselves to spend their taxpayers' money on rafters, giving it unrefundable. We are not currently spending our taxpayers' money with this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U182	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U183	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! You have talked several times today about how good masters we are here in the Republic of Estonia and that there are countries where masters are not so good. But now we are in a situation where we have to respond, for example, to the representative organisation of our teachers, why we are so good masters that we cannot pay them at least at the OECD average level, not to mention that we can move forward from that bottom end and pay a little above the average. At the same time, the same poor masters, Greece and Italy, and some others, not to mention Ireland, pay their teachers a much better salary. How would you explain to teachers' organisations why we are going to help these countries by being relatively modest paying agents ourselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U184	At the very least, it is necessary that we do not remain a modest pay-payer yet, because the woes of these countries can hurt our economies in the most brutal way. After all, we fell into a deep recession far from merely because of our optimism, but because the dominoes began to collapse. We're trying to avoid that rock collapse or fire. As far as the OECD is concerned, we are also honest with teachers. We spend an extraordinarily high amount of GDP on education within the OECD framework, especially when comparing the size of the budget. Our education system is extremely expensive, education itself is expensive in many ways, and teachers are dear to us in this positive sense, not in terms of price. If we want to achieve quality and pay teachers decent wages in a system that is probably too high in quantitative terms, given this high state of affairs, then we need to reform this structure. As far as secondary education is concerned, if this term is still correct, if I am not forced to talk about upper secondary school, which in the old days meant a gym, when we are talking about a secondary education system in school education, I hope that these reforms have been put into practice. In the previous Riigikogu, I couldn't follow it. Perhaps I have harmed Tõnis Lukas when I said that the first Minister of Education to speak to the right name is Jaak Aaviksoo. In fact, Tõnis did some effort, and the Riigikogu fought back quite strongly. I'm sure you did your best too, but maybe not in the direction of paying teachers a higher salary, but rather in the direction of getting more students fed up on public account. It's noble too, but it doesn't help education that much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U185	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U186	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! Point 2 of draft Decision No 90 states that the Government of the Republic shall submit the Riigikogu to the Committee on European Union Affairs for approval the financing of support programmes and the economic policy conditions. At the same time, it is known that Estonia's contribution will affect European financial stability by 0.28%, but the total amount of guarantee will affect the annual budget of the Estonian state by 30%. Thus, the impact on domestic finances is many times greater. For what reasons did the government not consider it necessary to seek approval from the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U187	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U188	Thank you. Dear waitress, Early this morning, I was watching Euronews. There, the Finnish Minister of Finance spoke of the fact that they believe that the decision is supported by 120 out of 200 members in Eduskunna. But it was also said that Finland would like to have a guarantee that the money that the country guarantees will come back someday. Why do you think we're not talking about this guaranteed return of money, as it is in another country?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U189	Thank you. Look, I really suggest that we get a little into this and understand the real situation. After all, the guarantees that one country requires can only come at the expense of other countries. This requirement for a guarantee does not work; it may calm the domestic clientele or, if you want it, the voters. However, such guarantees do not actually work because they cannot come from anywhere but at the expense of other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U190	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U191	Thank you. The second question is purely technical. Point 5 of the draft law states that this Decision will enter into force when it is signed. Can you tell me what kind of standardized document this wording is derived from? It is not the usual wording to enter into force on the day of or the day following the publication in the Official Journal of the State or the date of entry into force of a certain deadline. Where does this formulation come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U192	The Commission decided that amendments to the draft could be made until 12 noon tomorrow. Make this proposal, and it will certainly be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U193	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U194	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I have a question for you. Have you discussed in the Commission that if this guarantee were to go into operation and we would have to borrow money from someone we would then borrow it from? Which banks, under what conditions, by which deadline, etc.? Have you discussed these details yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U195	Thank you. With this level of detail, we did not address the issue of the introduction of possible guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U196	Thank you very much. The questions are over. I'm opening negotiations. For negotiation, please speak on behalf of the Jüri Ratas Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U197	Thank you. I'm asking for Sven Sester in the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Today, for the first time in the Riigikogu Hall, we are dealing with the crucial draft Riigikogu decision 90. In the context of this debate and the adoption of a decision, we are, on the one hand, expressing solidarity and a firm membership of Europe, but, on the other hand, we must take into account the opinion of our people, the capacity and organisation of our country, which is also a European practice. I would like to mention from the outset that the Centre Party is not opposed to European solidarity, on the contrary, it considers it extremely important. From a global perspective, we consider it necessary to reduce the stratification of society, both nationally and in a broader way, and to ensure a European tax policy. At a time when we held government responsibility, we always held high priority in the collection of reserves for difficult times. This is also a European approach. It is true that we have been critical of drafts and decisions where there have been very few discussions in plenary and in the lead committee. To take a decision on EUR 2 billion in two days in plenary means to take an irresponsible decision at the rate of acceleration. This must not be the procedure for the legislative power. Here it is quite worth recalling the speech of the President of the Republic at the opening of the autumn session, where he emphasised: 'The situation in which the draft is brought to the Riigikogu today, the adoption tomorrow and the entry into force of the day after tomorrow is unacceptable in the rule of law! ' There have been few negotiations, no alternatives, no explanations and no answers to substantive questions, but it is the duty of all of us to explain our opinion to voters on such matters. The draft under consideration does not provide clear answers to our country's ability to realise a guarantee. According to the draft decision, the Estonian state guarantees the debt liabilities of euro area Member States in financial difficulties amounting to EUR 1.995 billion, plus interest on debt. This is almost a third of the budget of the Estonian state. We must take into account that any signature we give requires our ability to buy it in the future, or we must take into account the possibility that guarantees can be enforced. Are we able to bear such financial obligations in the future? I believe that many of us are asking ourselves this question, but people in our country will certainly ask that question. Over the last three years, the purchasing power of the Estonian people has decreased due to cuts and price increases, but now, according to this draft, we are going to support the countries that are better off with a guarantee that is clearly beyond our control. Estonian folk wisdom tells you to put your mouth in the middle. We have applied it diligently for ourselves. But this proverb also applies to promises of solidarity. However, let us not forget that Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn has already expressed the opinion that the European Stability Fund may need even more money than is currently proposed. How can you explain all this to your people at a time when one country's debt will initially be extinguished in the air and debt restructuring would damage the balance sheet of many banks in the euro area? The Centre Party Group would certainly like to have a much more substantive and broad-based debate with the Estonian people when dealing with the draft decision. We have proposed to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to discuss Estonia's participation in the EFSF as an important national issue, but unfortunately this debate will not come before we decide on this issue. At this point, I would like to congratulate the Socialists who have submitted a draft law amending § 402 of the State Budget Act (95 SE) to the procedure, because the draft decision currently under discussion (90 OE) is contrary to the current state budget law. The removal of this contradiction, however, clearly requires the adoption of draft law 95 before deciding on the draft decision 90. Unfortunately, this week's current agenda does not allow this. The Chancellor of Justice stressed in his opinion that the Constitution does not prohibit Estonia from participating in the EFSF and to grant state guarantees on debt obligations arising from the EFSF in connection with the financing of financial assistance to euro area Member States, but considers that the compatibility of the draft decision of 90 with the Constitution is questionable, as the granting of State guarantees to EFSF debt and the delegation of the corresponding decisions to the Government of the Republic requires the amendment of the State Budget Act, as the draft decision is governed by the rules on State guarantees laid down in § 402 of the State Budget Act. True, the Chancellor of Justice says in his opinion to the Riigikogu that this conflict can be eliminated by supplementing the state budget law. This positive attitude was also expressed today by the Minister of Finance. Apparently, the government coalition in the Committee on Monetary Affairs has started to do so. Secondly, the Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention to the very right question, which we believe is the involvement and control of the Riigikogu. In order to ensure parliamentary control, it is necessary for the Riigikogu to express its position on the financing of support programmes and the economic policy conditions by decisions taken in plenary. Only in this way can binding guidelines be given to the Government of the Republic in the process of concluding a financial agreement and ensure control. Unfortunately, this recommendation does not provide for a draft decision 90. Like the Chancellor of Justice, we are of the opinion that the involvement and control of the Riigikogu over the guarantee obligations of the Estonian state must be greater. However, after the adoption of this draft as a decision, the Riigikogu plenary has no control over the future. The draft should have included a provision that any specific new warranty will be approved by the Riigikogu. Indrek Neivelt hit the nail on the head when he said that the risk is a risk, whether you give a guarantee or a loan. When dealing with the bill, account must be taken of the possibility that the guarantee can be fully enforced and that we must actually pay out the money. It must therefore be clear who or what we are paying for EUR 2.5 billion. Today we do not know this, which is why it is not possible to support this draft in this form. We also propose to reject this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you the position of the IRL Group on our understanding of what the miracle animal this EFSF is, why Estonia must participate in it and what the IRL thinks about the process of processing the draft. I'm starting with a report on my earlier published thought. Pretend you live in a terraced house. One day, you'll see from the window that some of the nearby rowing boxes are on fire. What can I do? Are you hurried to carry your little material possessions out of the house, or are you hurried to throw water into the house? It is similar issues that have recently been on the minds and lips of many ordinary citizens of the European Union. Do we really have to give guarantees, and even real money, isn't there anything we can do without it? The IRL Group notes that, as a country, we are part of the European Union's common market in goods and services and it can be said with certainty that the insolvency of developed countries operating in the common market is costly both for a particular country and for its partners. Therefore, the loan granted to a Member State to support an economic programme and the fulfilment of that programme is not relevant for the whole monetary union. The principle of the Treaty is that Member States are not responsible for each other's financial obligations. A strict interpretation has not allowed a permanent framework to be established in the past in support of the stability of the euro area. In June 2010, euro area finance ministers set up the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF). The EFSF is one of the tools put in place to ensure financial stability in the euro area, the aid mechanisms on which the strength, development and security of both the European Union and Estonia depend. The purpose of the EFSF is to support euro area countries in exceptional financial difficulties, as problems in one euro area country inevitably affect all other countries, including Estonia. The fund is not an international financial institution, but a temporary private company, which finances various support measures for the stability of the euro area on the basis of guarantees provided by the euro area countries. The fund is owned by all euro area countries. The IRL Group is of the opinion that any possible action by the EFSF (grant facility, preventative credit limits, purchase of bonds from the primary and secondary markets and bank recapitalisation) can only take place with strict conditionality, financial support to the Member State will only be provided to support a specific economic programme and its implementation guarantee. If a Member State does not comply with the programme conditions, creditors should not make the next financial contribution. Today, when we take decisions, we realise that the EFSF is temporary and that its tasks will be taken over in 2013 by the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM, an organisation established under the Treaty on European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Next, the question is how and why Estonia participates in it. Since 2010, Estonia has supported the steps taken to ensure the stability of the euro area, as the stability of the euro area is in the interests of Estonia and its residents. Therefore, as a member of the euro area, Estonia participates equally with other euro area countries in strengthening the stability of the euro area. Estonia's accession to the EFSF has been delayed, as the EFSF Framework Agreement has already been amended twice in 2011. This is due to the need to increase the flexibility of the EFSF. Estonia can, however, join an organisation whose content and nature are clearly agreed upon. Finally, I will talk about the speed of the draft procedure and the compliance of the draft with the legislative basis. Estonia's accession to the EFSF will not enter into force until all euro area countries have completed their national legal procedures and submitted the letter of confirmation to the EFSF. Euro area governments have set themselves the goal of carrying out urgent national procedures, if possible, during September. The decision of the Riigikogu confirms that Estonia has made the necessary national procedures for joining the EFSF. In recent days, on the initiative of the Chancellor of Justice, legitimate questions have been raised about future decision-making powers, as well as the question of the majority of the Riigikogu in decision-making. We congratulate the Chancellor of Justice for his proactive activities; he usually gives his decisions as follow-up decisions. We are of the opinion that any proposal to make the draft decision more legal is of common interest to the Riigikogu. We confirm that the IRL Group is interested in the immediate and rapid adoption of the draft decision by the EFSF, while the possible contradictions with the Constitution and the basic law of the state budget and other laws must be eliminated. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U200	One more minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U201	Thank you. I always talk about it and deal with problems the way I understand them. I follow the principles that are important and valuable to me. Before, the question was whether this decision was difficult for me. Of course it's hard. It's hard for all of us. This is a decision of solidarity, as the Minister said. However, I would not like to be in a situation where, for example, we would choose not to show solidarity and not to participate in the aid package. First of all, it is in our interest that the eurozone works. We are dependent on the economy of the European Union; there are our main trading partners. The well-being of our future depends on how well the eurozone and the European Union as a whole do, if you want to, the whole world as a whole. At the moment, however, we are participating in a mechanism that takes off the risks that have accumulated. This is the best that can be done in the light of current knowledge, because all other steps or measures, which have also been discussed in the media, will either be considerably more expensive or will have consequences that we cannot imagine.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U202	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! My question concerns the necessity of amending the basic law on the state budget. The Chancellor of Justice has taken a clear view that it is necessary to amend the basic law on the state budget before the decision to grant the guarantee is taken. In meeting with the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Affairs Committee yesterday, the chancellor made it clear that he could also address the Supreme Court on this matter. You mentioned that the Commission discussed this issue. But did the Commission also take a decision, and what was the decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U204	Thank you, questioner! In fact, we will explain this issue in more detail in the context of the next draft, the draft 95. The Commission took decisions on this issue at its meeting on 26 September. But indeed, there was, I understood, a consensus within the Commission: it is necessary to mitigate legal risks and it is appropriate to amend the basic law of the state budget either by supplementing § 40, which deals with the granting of national guarantees, or rather by amending § 37 of the State Budget Act, which deals with the prevention of financial crises in general. I understand that there is a consensus in the Commission that there is a need to supplement the basic law on state budget. The basic law on the state budget was adopted and these provisions were written into the law when we were not even a member of the European Union yet, not to mention the status of a member of the euro area. The situation has changed. We need to improve and supplement our national laws, make them so that we can participate in the decision-making process in the euro area.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U205	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There were many questions about this issue in the Committee on Finance, and the Minister was well able to answer them. Some questions got in the air. The question also raised was the opinion of Eesti Pank on the draft law. After all, there is an agreement between Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance, according to which Eesti Pank undertakes to provide advice on economic matters and certainly also on financial matters. The Minister replied that Eesti Pank said to adopt this law quickly. Do you have the opinion of Eesti Pank at hand and would you read it to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U207	Eesti Pank is part of the European System of Central Banks. Trichet participates, I know, as far as possible in the euro area finance ministers' meetings. The European Central Bank has put pressure on the Member States in the euro area to speed up the establishment of this fund so as to keep up the pace and speed of decision-making in addition to this fund, which is currently under way under the Framework Agreement. Currently, the European Central Bank plays the role that this fund could play in some measures. I do not believe that Eesti Pank's position on this matter is different from what Trichet has said, for example. But I do not have the opinion of Eesti Pank here at the moment, I cannot quote it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U208	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U209	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Mr Efendiev still managed, after a long effort, to answer the question of whether the budget for next year should be the budget line with EUR 400 million written for guarantees. The question is this: where does this money come from, at what cost, do we have to make another effort and cut back something, or are we going to take out a loan that will inevitably make our rating worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U210	Thank you for your question. EUR 400 billion is a comprehensive guarantee guaranteed by all euro area countries. This draft decision provides for a general guarantee. Our debt burden goes to those amounts that make up a proportionate proportion of the loans that this fund has provided. The loans currently known will be issued in such a way that we will have a falling share of EUR 400 million. Of course, the guarantee is a guarantee, the guarantee may materialise and may not materialise. The Minister repeatedly stressed that the possibility of the whole guarantee being realised was unlikely. It's hard to argue with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U211	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U212	Thank you. Dear waitress, Of course, the current situation in the financial world, in the European Union, is unique, but not to the very end. In the 1970s, the situation was very difficult in the Latin American countries. We remember what the decision was then for the leadership and financing of the United States and for the involvement of other states on the American continent. Almost all debts were extinguished and the crisis was overcome. At the moment, very much has been said about the elimination of half of Greece's debts. Then there will be a whole new situation. Was the Riigikogu commission seriously discussing this, because then there is a new situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U213	Thank you very much. Speech chair, Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U214	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker concluded a row experience with a beautiful metaphor. I begin by seeing the posters of the picketists in front of this house and also the front cover of one of today's daily newspapers, where Europe, quite rightly the euro zone, was depicted as the Titanic. Indeed, if there is a leak on the ship, it is possible to act in different ways. Surely it is wise to try to save yourself. Surely it is wise to try to save yourself by saving as many others as possible. The third option is to close your cabin door and say that there's no leak in my cabin. That probably doesn't make any sense. We have talked a great deal about the interests and values of Estonian politics, and we have discussed which of us should guide our policy planning. I think that this issue is really difficult only if interests and values conflict with each other. Today, when it comes to ensuring the stability of the euro area, I think that this is what our national interests and our values require of us. First out of interest. We know that Estonia is a very small economy that is very dependent on what is happening on our export markets. It is clear that the insolvency of one euro area Member State or another would be a major blow to the banking sector in Europe's large countries first, but then certainly also to the real economy, and not in the very distant future, the negative effects of such a development would not fail us either. There is certainly no guarantee. We, the Social Democrats, too, have a number of doubts and doubts as to whether the proposed rescue packages are sufficient and whether they will work. All the more so since the previous speaker spoke here about possible measures such as the purchase of government bonds and the recapitalisation of banks. In recent days, there is also a great deal of talk about the possibility of partial debt write-offs for countries in need, which certainly also requires the recapitalisation of banks in order to calm the markets. We do not know which of these measures will actually be decided on in the case of the EFSF. This will certainly aggravate these doubts, doubts, and fears. While we see a comet rushing through space towards us and we have at least a theoretical mechanism to save ourselves, it would be extremely irresponsible to leave it unused only because it may not work and maybe it is very expensive. Now the values. In a situation where for years a relatively large part of its budget revenue has been categorized by the Estonian state in Europe, it would, to put it mildly, be unsolidary if we did not support the countries in need. Of course, it is obvious that we also require them to be reasonable and disciplined. When we come to the way in which we have dealt with this draft decision in Estonia and held a political debate, it must be said that this five particular criticisms do not suffer. Looking at how the government has dealt with it, I think of two options. Firstly, in terms of public debate, this rather uncomfortable issue was intended to be carried out in the dark and under the blanket, or, which is even worse, the government did indeed treat Parliament as a rubber stamp and assumed that whatever was agreed in the government would be knocked very quickly in this Chamber and without clinging back. Both of them are actually insane. Yes, it is true, as I myself said before, that this process has been in constant development, that there are very many unanswered questions, that there is a great deal of new information that comes in days and hours, and that there will certainly be a great many changes ahead. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U215	Extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U216	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Before the changeover, we were told, for example, that there was an increase in investment and that it was necessary. Maybe in the long run, that's the case, but we're told we need to switch now. The result? The result is huge price increases, the outflow of money is greater than the inflow, and we cannot very much talk about investment. Even then, the first real aid packages were known for Portugal, Ireland and Greece. Now we want to adopt real financial obligations by ignoring the law, but we are talking again that it is more useful to us, that we are talking about solidarity again. Don't you think, at last, you can tell yourself, us and the people the truth about the consequences and not tell them that even though there are two billion, which represents a third of the budget, it's just like a guarantee...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U217	Your question time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U218	Thank you for your question. It is very easy to criticize and talk about what hits us all, how much it costs and that it does nothing. But make a suggestion! You haven't done that. Just propose what you think about whether you could come up with common bonds, whether loans should be financed, or whether additional measures should be taken to force Member States to save their costs. Make these suggestions! It's very easy to criticize. Your proposal to apply progressive income tax does not work here, because there is a progressive income tax in those countries that are in trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U219	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U220	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! You talked for 20 minutes about how the Commission discussed why it was necessary to go along with these packages. As a financial specialist, do you think that the Commission has discussed enough of this alternative option not to go along, and what does it entail? Do you think it was done thoroughly or not? And if not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U221	Thank you. This is also an important issue, and these legal issues are also important, but it took most of the time for matters of constitutional law in this sitting. If we had reached consensus earlier, we could have devoted this time to more substantive issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U222	Thank you, Madam President. I want to be more specific. There is currently no line in the budget for this guarantee. Do the future budgets need to have the line that serves this guarantee and its impact on the budget today, tomorrow and the future? Is that a percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U223	Nevertheless, the basic framework, the basic principles, have been known for a long enough time so that we could have started this debate in this Chamber. We could certainly have done our own national laws in a timely and normal manner, creating the legal bases that are absolutely necessary for Estonia to participate in the EFSF in the form of the guarantees that we are currently discussing. Indeed, the Social Democrats here have given the coalition a helping hand. We have been relatively shocked at the unfriendly adoption of this hand. However, we are pleased that, through the discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and a very clear statement by the Chancellor of Justice, the majority of the coalition has probably also at least realised that, without changing the basic law of the budget, it is not possible to adopt the draft decision to be dealt with today as a decision. We believe that if Estonia makes the necessary decision to participate in the EFSF, it must take place legally correctly. The worst that could happen would be if we took this decision in a shaky and hasty manner and entangled in litigation over this legality. I think we should throw a big stone in the government's cabbage garden. There are many things that could have been done differently and better, and there are many things that still can be repaired. Let's do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U224	Thank you. I cannot give a thorough accounting treatment of budget items from the Riigikogu speaker. This was also not considered useful by the Minister in answering questions today. But, as I said, and it is known, the deposit of EUR 48000 to buy-in shares should be reflected in the draft state budget for next year. As I understand it, loans, or loans, for which we know today, or are very likely to know, that the IMF and the EFSF will give them to Portugal, Ireland and perhaps Greece, of which our share is equal to 0.28%, and the share we bear is EUR 400 million, will increase our debt burden by the same amount, which must be taken into account when drawing up the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U225	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U226	I would like to clarify the Rules of Procedure. If the second reading is in the same sense as reading the draft law, then of course all members of the Riigikogu will get the floor, but if you treat the second reading as a third reading, so that the second one is skipped, I will not get the floor, because the group decided that someone else would represent our group. Question: do I get the floor on Thursday, yes or no? Tell me if you'd like me to talk for a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U227	Thank you very much. I'll close the negotiations, no more calls. As the proposal has come to be rejected at first reading, we are preparing for the voting procedure. I vote on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft decision of the Riigikogu at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 61 against. The proposal was therefore not supported. The commission has proposed that the Riigikogu's decision to "Ensure compliance with the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on European Financial Stability Fund and its amendments" submitted by the Government of the Republic be terminated at first reading 90. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 noon on 28 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U228	Thank you. My answer is that your speeches are very interesting. I am looking forward to your speech if our Rules allow it at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U229	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U230	Thank you. This whole European debt crisis has blown me apart internally, so I don't know how I have to live anymore. My group has decided that I must continue to live as I may not wish to live on. That's the same question I have for you, good waitress. You are a member of the Reform Party, and if you decided to make a Commission report, you could have done so, but if you had been part of the People's Union, would you have done the Commission's report and said the exact same thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U231	I'll come back to the beginning of the report. One commentator wrote to me that it is worth going to one of the pits of a terraced house when the people of this pit themselves are helping it, but if the people themselves pour gas to burn better, then there is a reason to start saving their property. The IRL Group considers that, if the draft decision enters into force, future EFSF allocations will have to be made strictly in accordance with the ex ante agreements, i.e. to support and guarantee implementation of a specific economic programme in need of assistance. We support the swift processing of this draft decision and will work towards the necessary legal certainty. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U232	Thank you for this very expert question. The Commission did not address this issue directly, but I can say that the world will certainly learn from the experience of previous crises. Experts have offered a wide range of solutions in the media, starting from the fact that some of the debts of countries in distress could be extinguished, refinanced so that banks would participate and suffer losses in substance. But I cannot well imagine that Member States or banks will reach a consensus that debts will be extinguished. At present, the private sector is proposed to participate in the refinancing process in a way that does not cause too much damage. There has been talk of a magnitude of 21% in relation to the main body. This proposal, too, has not received as much support from the private sector as was previously expected. The situation is undoubtedly complicated. The situation is complicated by the fact that, unfortunately, there are Member States in the euro area that have lived beyond their means, and we are now dealing with the consequences of living above it. Apart from Ireland, Portugal and Greece, there are other countries where risks are very high. The media have spoken about the problems of Spain and Italy. These countries are also dependent on financial markets. All these risks cannot be overlooked. The main objective is to stop the debt crisis from spreading, so that there is no panic on the financial markets which would result in the Spanish or Italian bond interest rates rising to an unreasonable level. That is the big point of this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U233	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U234	Thank you. In fact, I would like to continue to address Mr Ennu's question. You said that European banks are demanding, and the position of Eesti Pank is currently unknown to you. We are talking here about countries in need, but, let us be honest, these countries need not actually help at all by granting guarantees and the guarantee must be paid out in cash. Then we are helping financial market speculators. If we do not actually succeed in helping Greece, how justified is the risk of simply spreading their future tax revenues, losing it and probably pushing Estonia into stagnation for decades?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U235	Thank you. I think I know the position of Eesti Pank. Eesti Pank's position supports joining the Financial Stability Fund as soon as possible. Eesti Pank also supports the text of this framework agreement and its amendments. However, as far as the other side of the question is concerned, if we do not take a decision and do not take part in the rescue mechanism in solidarity, it can indeed create a situation (which is quite likely to happen) where, even if external risks result in a serious setback for our economy and we encounter difficulties with our own budgetary revenues, because those risks, which are in the global economy, can materialise if European Union politicians do not take decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U236	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U237	Thank you. Commenting on the third point of the draft decision that the granting of guarantees is decided by the Government of the Republic, the Minister of Finance said that this is not the most accurate use of words. However, it is probably a little more substantial and serious. We are in a situation where the Government of the Republic is likely to propose and the Riigikogu will decide once and for all. Whether it is the 'large hall' or the 'European Union Affairs Commission', it is probably still undecided. You're among the people who discuss these things in perspective. How do you feel about the end result? For example, if this decision goes to ELAK, is it that the representatives of the Government of the Republic present this decision and that ELAK agrees, or is there a very substantive and long debate there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U238	Thank you for your question. As the end of the sitting is rapidly approaching, I will try to respond very quickly and briefly. First of all, there is a consensus within the Commission that the point in the draft decision should be amended. I myself think that the Committee on European Union Affairs is like a mini-Parliament that could deal with these issues in the future, and this procedure is in place and is working. These are certainly issues that need to be discussed as 'critical issues'. The Committee on European Union Affairs also discusses many technical issues. I am in favour of the option that the Committee on European Union Affairs, composed of representatives of all political groups, could be an institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U239	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U240	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In fact, this is not an individual decision. With the EFSF decision, we are also building the way for ESM procedures. With this same decision, we are also giving the right to transfer our rights and potential obligations to the ESM. Have you thought about whether there are any other decisions that we are currently generating effects for the future, but the impact of which we do not really have a clear picture? That is, are we not generating an additional centralization of the European Union that will lead to a loss of national independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U241	Thank you. My current knowledge and understanding is that it is very difficult to increase the guarantee volumes that the national parliaments of the European Union approve. Taxpayers in guaranteeing countries may simply not accept this. At the same time, these volumes are sufficient to deal with Greece, Portugal and Ireland's credit problem and, given current knowledge, to halt the further spread of the crisis. As far as the EFSF successor ESM is concerned, the main difference is that the ESM will gain more financial capacity thanks to the fact that the real financial contributions to the fund are several times higher than in the current EFSF case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U242	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U243	The second item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 402 of the State Budget Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U244	Honourable manager! Honourable Riigikogu! I'll start with two procedural remarks. First...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U245	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U246	... I am pleased that, after the first startle in the Riigikogu Finance Committee, our idea was found in a warm welcome, understanding and understanding. Secondly, I will say right away that my call will be over soon, we will continue this tomorrow and then I will also answer the questions. The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu must therefore make some procedural decisions. But the initiation of the bill was caused by one simple circumstance. You see, the state budget law is a very strict, dry, cold, conservative document. It's deliberately designed like this. All the finance ministers who have defended it here have kept it this way and, frankly, it also has its value. Paragraph 1 (1) of the State Budget Act states: "This Act lays down the procedure for drawing up, adopting and implementing the state budget. Paragraph 2 (2) states: 'The state budget consists of all revenue and expenditure of the State for the financial year and of financing operations. ' In other words, according to the logic of this law, just as a state cannot have two wallets, but it has one, it cannot have two decision-making mechanisms. Everything that has to do with the state's money is in that law. As a result, the draft decision in respect of 90 was surprised at why no mention is made of the State Budget Act at all. The reason became clear soon enough. Because the same EFSF we are talking about here is a company that is created by the Member States of the euro area and is based in Luxembourg and operates as a public limited company and Estonia is a shareholder of this company pursuant to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Estonia of 8 September, and the basic law of our state budget states very clearly to whom the Estonian state can grant guarantees. At this point, honourable members of the coalition, despite my respect for our finance minister, I must say that there has been a bit of such a point of uniform in his recent statements. Just to explain it to you, I'm going to read a few paragraphs. In § 402, which speaks of State guarantees, there really is paragraph 3 which has been written there a long time ago and which speaks of how national guarantees are applied for, who asks, who decides who does what. For example, in the spring the Riigikogu granted a guarantee to the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital on the basis of the same section and the same paragraph, so that it could take out and build a loan. In 2009, during the previous crisis, we supplemented this law with paragraph 31. We did so because the Estonian state did not have an operational mechanism to intervene in the financial crisis by helping financial institutions operating in Estonia, for example, if the countries from which these institutions come decide to help their banks. We added that the Estonian state could also, if it so decides, participate in solidarity. This paragraph in the new wording means that state guarantees may also be granted if the Estonian State is not the owner of majority shares to a company whose financial stability is ensured by using the resources of the Stability Reserve of the Republic of Estonia. There are no other terms. If the assets of the stabilisation reserve have been mobilised, this paragraph also allows guarantees to be granted. Our bill can only be accused of being meant for one time. Really, we haven't hidden it. As long as the EFSF turns into an ESM, it should apply to me. But there's no other way right now. Even in purely theoretical terms, I cannot imagine a finance minister who would support the following scheme. His friend comes to the Minister of Finance (let it not be a party partner, but just a friend, a businessman) and says that be it the Minister of Finance, he has a good business plan, if he could get a state guarantee, he would get a loan cheaper, maybe the Minister of Finance will guarantee it. The Minister of Finance now takes out § 402, reads paragraph 3 and says that the State is not entitled to give guarantees. Then the businessman says, "Let the Minister of Finance not give it according to the law, but give it on the basis of the constitution." You'll understand this is insane. You can't have that kind of thing. If the guarantees are finally to be paid out, we will still pay under this same state budget law, not under any other law. We don't have another wallet, we don't have a black wallet in the country, and he can't act any different. So it is clear that this law must be amended. As the author of the draft, I have said on this draft that all the good amendments that could come are welcome. I hope they're really good. At present, it has been heard that § 37 of the Law could be supplemented. It makes you, to be honest, shrivel your shoulders. If I were a strict Minister of Finance, I would be categorically opposed to that. We cannot change this law in the interests of financial stability either so that the Estonian state can give a guarantee to any Kebabiputka in Istanbul. This possibility cannot theoretically be created; it must be very clear. So our draft was based on the changes that were made in 2009. Indeed, there is another procedure here; it is not a procedure for applying for a state guarantee, it is a more operational procedure; it is also intended for the stabilisation reserve. In this case, this volume is much higher than the amount of resources available for the stabilisation reserve, so it would be inappropriate to talk here about the possibility of using the relevant sections. On behalf of the authors of the draft act, I say once again: it is for us to be certain that the conversion of this draft into a law is a prerequisite for the adoption of a draft decision in the form of 90 decisions at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-27_U247	Thank you very much for the waitress. No questions have been registered for you at the moment. The agenda is still under way and we will continue the debate at tomorrow's session. Thank you very much, everyone. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
