ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Good guests! Let's start the 20th April briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. 55 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 46 are missing. Good fellows! The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Culture Rein Lang. I also have a big request to you about today's Question Time: if the person asking a written question has asked his main question and further questions, and there are a lot of questions that have been asked today, please ask just one more question on the spot during the debate on each question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U2	Let us now begin with the first question put by Riigikogu member Viktor Vassilyev. This is answered by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, a member of the Government of the Republic, the topic is income taxing pensions. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! On 13 April, Eesti Päevaleht wrote about pensioners who have been paying excessive income tax for years. By now, it has become clear that there are 17,000 of them. Estonian pensioners are confused, they are restricting the Social Insurance Board and pension authorities, as well as local authorities, so far do not have full clarity on where to turn to for help. At the government press conference, you argued that there was no point in organising an information campaign. Indeed, only 5.6% of Estonian old-age pensioners are affected! At the same time, they are still 17,000 honourable citizens whose pockets the state has put its hand in. Hence my question: how have information campaigns been organised over the years? Has its effectiveness been analysed? And who is specifically responsible for the financial damage caused to 17,000 people?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U4	The country certainly has not caused financial damage to these 17,000 people. No one can be obliged to make full use of the benefits provided by law. However, the state must certainly acknowledge that, due to the apparently limited explanation work, people's information has not been sufficient to ensure that all those who have wanted to use the benefits offered by the state could have done so. Organising a campaign for 17,000 people, not knowing who these people are, is obviously not viable. To make television advertising for people who may not even be present on Estonian territory because they live permanently or for a long time outside Estonia, for example in Russia, is not very meaningful. I argue that Estonia is one of the few countries in the world where it is possible to identify with personal accuracy people who have benefited from the social benefits offered by the state and who have not received part of the social benefits offered by the state. Countries where it is possible to identify with personal accuracy those who have not asked for this tax exemption to be applied to the minimum, but not too much in the Estonian world. However, information needs to be improved. The current notification is simple: when people formalise their retirement documents, they tick the box where they ask or do not ask to apply the income tax-free minimum for their pensions. This solution is very simple and people are aware of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U5	Prime Minister, the time for this answer is over! The first point to be specified. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U6	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! As you rightly pointed out, direct contact should be used because people are known. This can be arranged in a number of ways: it can be done today and operationally, although I think it might have been wiser to start yesterday, but it can also be delayed as long as some pensioners are in good shape and some are just out of life before the lucky day comes. After all, these are predominantly people over 80 years of age. Question: whose task is it to inform them operationally about 17,000 pensioners? What are the starting and closing deadlines, and what are the amounts of this money paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U7	The amounts that would go to send letters, for example, are not significant. If you send a letter to 17000 people, printouts, envelopes, post, etc., it could cost a maximum of 9000 euros and this is certainly not a topic that the Riigikogu should discuss, where, what funds this 9000 euros will be found. However, solving the issue is not as simple as sending letters and getting them all. We have about 1,000 people of retirement age in special care homes, and generally they are unable to understand the weather adequately. Their guardians are in many cases local authorities. There are about 5,000 pensioners in general care institutions. In these cases, too, local government is in many cases the guardian. It is therefore probably worth working very closely with local authorities. It seems that some local authorities have not fulfilled their obligation of guardianship in the best possible way, but have not applied for income tax relief for the guardians. There are also homeless people who are over 65 years old. And, as has been said, according to current data, among older people who have not been able to use this tax exemption as a benefit, there are also people who do not live in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U8	Viktor Vassilyev, the second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! In order to take account of the overall tax-free income, the pensioner must submit an application. Such a statement makes sense in the case of a working pensioner who has to choose whether he or she wishes to count the tax-free amount of the allowance on salary or pension and to apply to the employer or pension institution accordingly. How could it be arranged that an inactive pensioner should not submit an application for an exemption from income tax? He doesn't have any choice, and in essence, such a statement doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U10	I, too, have passed the stage in which you are currently present in shaping my assessments. In fact, non-working pensioners have the opportunity, for example, to submit an individual income tax return with their working spouse, and very many inactive pensioners want to take advantage of this option. They want to obtain this income tax exemption in this way, because they would not receive the benefit of the exemption from their pension to the maximum extent by declaring their income on their own. So the question is not as simple as simply increasing the pension tax exemption. This would upset a great many people who, as working pensioners, have received the benefit every month on a much larger scale. Plenty of pensioners who have submitted an individual income tax return and thus received the benefit of the income tax exemption do not want the monthly benefit to be used. They consider it reasonable and necessary to raise money in this way in order to obtain this benefit once a year. They want to buy something or go on a trip. This information comes from specific pensioners. For me, this way of collecting money does not make sense, you can put money into an account and let him make interest there, but it is a free choice for people and they do not want to be forced to apply this benefit every month. So the question is much more complicated than it seemed at first. The solution to the problem also seemed simple to me: we send a letter home and people will probably react. To date, around 35,000 people have contacted the Social Insurance Board or the Tax Administration and...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U11	Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but we're out of time to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U13	There are no more questions at the moment, so I will finish addressing the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U14	Let us go to the second question put by Riigikogu member Jaak Allik. Jaak Aaviksoo, a member of the Government of the Republic, responds. The subject is the implementation of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in organising education in other languages in municipal upper secondary schools. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U15	Thank you! Mr. Minister for Education! § 21 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provides that a language other than Estonian may also be a language of instruction in municipal upper secondary school or in its individual classes. The Government of the Republic shall grant permission for instruction in another language or for bilingual studies at the request of a municipality or city council. Such a proposal is made to the municipality or city council on the basis of the school development plan. Can you explain, please, which criteria the Ministry of Education intends to take into account when recommending to the Government of the Republic to allow other language studies in municipal primary secondary schools, as is known to have applied for 15 upper secondary schools by Narva and Tallinn Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U16	Thank you, good questioner! A few days ago, such a request came from the City Government of Tallinn and from the City Government of Narva a few weeks ago. What does the Ministry of Education and Research intend to take to shape a position before the decision of the government? This depends on the justification given in the request for maintaining secondary school education in other languages. In most cases, such a request has been based on obstacles to the transition to 60% of upcoming learning. The Ministry of Education and Research has been surprised to some extent by such applications, as the transition to Estonian-language education has lasted for 17 years and has been particularly intensified following the amendments to the adopted basic school and upper secondary school law. On the basis of the respective school development plans, the transition to Estonian-language education from 1 September 2011 has been feasible for all schools according to their own development plan, school care centre and city governments. The emerging new circumstances that have forced schools to submit such a request are likely to require a response from the Ministry of Education and Research, which must support schools in order to ensure that this transition is smooth and that students' rights to quality education are also guaranteed from 1 September. I would also like to take into account the fact that the Ministry of Education and Research has allocated more than 12 million kroons to schools in Tallinn to finance this transition. In the past, schools have considered the transition possible, so the obstacles can only be small and temporary. We hope that they will also be resolved in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research and the city governments. If not, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U17	Dear Minister, Your answer time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U18	If not, a decision must be taken accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U19	Let's get on with the questions. The first point to be specified. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U20	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The Ministry of Education has, as we know, criticised and, in your current presence, also criticised the management of some upper secondary schools in local governments, as they are unable to comply with the requirements of the law when transferring to 60% of Estonian-language studies. Do you agree that this criticism should under no circumstances materialise as a criminal act against students who have the right to require the education system to be provided with high-quality knowledge in a language that they understand according to the curriculum?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U21	The criticism I have made certainly does not concern school leaders, councils or city governments. I hope that city governments will find a solution to these problems, as has already been said. If such solutions cannot be found in their power, we will try to further support them by the Ministry of Education and Research and, of course, we will be guided in all of this by ensuring the educational rights of students.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U22	And now let's go to the issue registered on the spot. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I know that there were no long reasons why schools apply for a study permit in other languages in the applications of schools in Tallinn. These were not the simple reasons: we wrote a letter to Mr Lukas on the subject and asked for guidance on which criteria must be reflected there, but no answer was received. Thus, on 1 April, we sent these requests on the road as they were. So I ask you again: how do you intend to assess these applications, given the fact that there are no long reasons for applying to schools? In the past, you argued that you were based on an analysis of the content of the applications.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U24	Schools must be governed by the Constitution, by the laws established on the basis of the Constitution and by other legislation. We're ready to give more information to the schools when they need it. As far as I know, specific schools have completely specific problems with a lack of a mathematics teacher, where a geography teacher, where perhaps a specialist in another field. If these teachers cannot be found in cooperation between schools and government, we will try to provide assistance with the Ministry of Education and Research. I would also point out that it is possible to use additional funding of 30% provided for in the Coalition Agreement, especially in Narva and other schools in Ida-Virumaa. This, too, should further motivate teachers. The problems of schools are quite specific, pedagogical, not political or political, as some politicians have tried to show, especially with regard to the recent elections in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U25	Can I ask you another more specific question, Jaak Allik?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U26	Thank you! That is the third question, and I ask you to allow Mr Kreitzberg to present it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U27	Thank you, good fellow Jaak Allik, but we have a custom in the Riigikogu that one person runs the Riigikogu Question Time! And I said to the Chamber at 1:01 because very many members of the Riigikogu have registered their questions in advance for Question Time, that two additional questions and one on-the-spot question are allowed for each question that has been asked in writing. I ask you to understand, because I think it is important that as many people as possible who have worked hard and registered their question in advance should be able to submit it. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U28	We will go to the third question put by Yana Toom, a member of the Riigikogu. Rein Lang, member of the Government of the Republic, responds to this. Integration is the subject. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Your area now includes such a finer thing as integration policy. I read the chapter on integration of the coalition agreement several times and found some interesting things that the Russian media have also asked a number of questions about. I would also like to address some of these issues to you. The coalition agreement states that 'we highly appreciate the long-term contribution of Estonian historical indigenous minorities (Jews, Baltic Germans, Russian Old Believers, Estonian Swedes, Ingerizomians) to the development of Estonia's rich cultural image'. I'm sure you know this chapter better than I do. What is the reason why this chapter does not contain a provision for the recognition of the cultural heritage of other national minorities? Does the contribution of non-Estonians to the cultural life of Estonia, who do not belong to the aforementioned ethnic groups, not deserve recognition and support?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U30	Thank you very much. This question, however, is very surprising to me. Certainly all nationalities who have lived in Estonia for centuries have contributed to the development of the Estonian state, both in economic development and in cultural development. It seems to me that you are now artificially pulling out of the context of one or the other expression. I in the Riigikogu can assure all peoples living in Estonia that they will all be treated equally and we very much hope that they will all become very good citizens of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U31	Question number one, Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U32	Mr. Minister! There are two very specific things in this section. One is that if there is money, the development plan for the Peipsi area will be changed, and the other is about the Jewish community: the Holocaust Memorial in Klooga will be repaired. I still assume that other ethnic groups don't belong here. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U33	Yeah, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U34	And now there's a matter registered on the spot. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Last year the development plan for Ida-Virumaa was approved and part of this programme is also an area of integration. A week ago, the Minister for Regional Affairs said that ministries are now working in their fields, and I have a question about that. Has the Ministry of Culture already made this development plan specifically for this and also for the coming year, or is it going to take some time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U36	Thank you very much for a very constructive question. The Ida-Viru County Action Plan has indeed been a priority for the previous government, and I very much hope that it will also become a priority for this government. We have not yet completely locked the possible activities in Ida-Virumaa until the end of this year, let alone next year. We have plenty of opportunities there, including untapped opportunities, and we plan to make a county visit to Ida-Virumaa in the nearest time to talk to the local government leaders. In particular, by the way, it concerns the City Government of Narva and the mayor of Narva, with whom we hope to establish a very professional relationship.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U37	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U38	We will go to the fourth question asked by Andres Anvelt, a member of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip responds to this, the subject is national security and budgetary policy. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! 2011 has started with developments in last year, which are worrying about national defence, internal security policy. As early as 2010, 7% more people were killed in the fire than in 2009, but the first quarter of 2011 shows another increase, even if the Haapsalu accident had not happened. The number of road deaths has also increased. I'm not talking about drowning deaths in 2010. More than 40 specialists have left the police this year, and the rest are again threatened by forced holidays. The Rescue Board has been forced to temporarily reduce the compositions of up to 30 commandos due to forced leave days this year, thus reducing their ability to save lives in the event of fires. I'm not talking about the mass departure of the professional militia. All this calls into question the financial capacity of our country to ensure its internal and external security. What is the government's plan to stop these negative processes and restore the reduction in the number of accidents that began a few years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U40	These have certainly not been a one-off temporary measure, which has led to a significant reduction in the number of road deaths in Estonia. This is the result of sustained investments, which are accompanied by consistent communication activities, and as a result the number of road deaths, drowning deaths and fire deaths in Estonia has steadily decreased. There is no country in the world where, for example, the number of road fatalities would have been steadily reduced and this trend would have been uncanny without years where, in the meantime, the number of fatalities has increased again. There are several reasons why, for example, the number of road fatalities is increasing. This is usually primarily related to the weather in the Nordic environment. These trendy years do not mean that the trend has changed. We need not think now that making roads safer would have turned in any way and that all these investments, which amount to billions, have suddenly ceased to serve road safety. We have taken measures on a permanent basis and we will continue to implement them. I am sure that the number of accidents in Estonia will decrease. As far as the Defence Forces are concerned, it is known that Estonia's expenditure on national defence must be 2% of GDP next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U41	Andres Anvelt, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U42	If we look at the figures in the face, the Rescue Board will even reduce staff costs this year. We knew this concern already last year and this could have been taken into account in the preparation of this year's Rescue Board budget. But now 30 commandos are unable to meet the life-saving requirements in 2011. What's the government's position, is it gonna stay that way? After all, the number of victims of fire has increased when comparing indicators in 2009, 2010 and in the first quarter of 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U43	The economy is growing and the country's potential for spending on rescue services is growing. For me, it is a little strange how a politician can condemn the costs of a fast-growing state during a boom and at the same time start to compare today with the peak in boomtime. There is some contradiction in this approach from which the author of the question should be able to draw conclusions. If the overheating of the economy was bad, then after that statement, you cannot begin to idealize and say that it was bad, but you could actually have stayed the way it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U44	The second point to be clarified. Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U45	Thank you. Prime Minister, I do not believe that the overheating of the economy led to fires in houses. But I am now going to ask a specific question: what is more important to the government, is the extremely austerity of budgetary policy in the area of internal security or the real lives that we lose every year because of this policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U46	We cannot talk about some sort of super-cohesion in budgetary policy, in circumstances where we know that this year will end in a budget that is not balanced, but in a deficit. The fact that last year ended with a surplus of 0.1% is due in particular to the fact that we managed to sell excess Kyoto allowances. If these one-off revenues are not taken into account, then the deficit of last year also ended. Therefore, there can be no talk about any super-coy fiscal policy. Our goal is to spend as much as we earn, and you will probably share the view that it is irresponsible to start borrowing money from our children and grandchildren for today's expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U47	Now, please, a matter registered on the spot, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U48	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, many citizens of our country do not see internal security in as pink colors as you described it here. I dare say that the public's sense of security has steadily diminished. This is also illustrated by the concern of certain rural people in Tartumaa and Jõgevamaa who have appeared in our press in recent days: they are already thinking about how to solve one or another problem in court. Yesterday, the Economic Commission visited Tallinn Airport. As a result of the economic situation, the airport was wound up last year and the management of the airport was very upset. The country is very thinly polished during your reign. Do you think it would be any better to grind it, or is the government going to do something about internal security?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U49	We are all striving for a knowledge-based society. For some people, it seems to me that a knowledge-based society, a knowledge-based economy is merely a word of speech, and more than a word of meaning cannot be attributed to it by a person. In the light of the results of last year's budget, it can also be stated that the tax burden in Estonia has increased during the crisis, accounting for 36% of GDP. This means that the country's share in society is considerably higher during the current crisis than in the 2000 crisis, for example, when social spending was 12 to 13% of GDP. At present, the share of social expenditure has increased to 19% of GDP. So it's inappropriate to talk about a very thinly polished country. I do not think that a member of the Riigikogu should afford such mistakes. Now for security. According to the latest victim survey, the security of Estonian residents has increased. This victim study is available to all people, including the good questioner. Research is still being carried out to shape the processes that take place in society on the basis of them and on the basis of existing knowledge. All kinds of flashes, emotional flashes that contradict scientific research, that should be the basis for state policy-making.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U50	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U51	Let us move on to the fifth question asked by the member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps. Jaak Aaviksoo, a member of the Government of the Republic, answers this and the subject is student loans. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Of course, the subject is known to you because you were also in the government when it was discussed. One of the painful parts of the cuts that caused quite a lot of debate in society was the cessation of the provision of student loans to young people who went into the public sector, or so-called public work, including those who went as teachers. This particularly affected, for example, the training of kindergarten teachers, a large part of whom is currently working and on relatively low wages. The reason for these studies is that, in the meantime, we have called for them to increase their qualifications. That is why I am asking whether you have decided, now that the cut-off time is passing, to review this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U53	Thanks to the questioner! Indeed, on 1 July 2009, the Law on student grants and student loans was amended and the reimbursement of student loans was abolished for all employees in the public sector who had not completed higher education studies or worked in the public sector for one year. Indeed, the reason for this decision was the recession and the objective of balancing the state budget. At the same time, this support measure cannot be considered to be fully fair during a more peaceful economic period. I am of the opinion that people should be paid salaries in the form of salaries, not in the form of various types of benefits and creativity fees, including by writing off loans. In recent years, public sector wages have increased, and the number of employees in the education sector, for whom we both have heartaches, has also increased. It would therefore be inappropriate to argue that educational workers have suffered in some way from this measure. We also mean that the cancellation of student loans is an additional source of income for those young people who have taken student loans. In doing so, we discriminate against those who have managed without a loan, not to mention those who work in the private sector, not least in high-level jobs or high-paid positions, and have to cover all the costs out of their pockets. We hope that, along with the rise in wages in the public sector and, if necessary, the development of targeted support measures, we can support families in financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U54	Mailis Reps, the first question to be specified, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Yes, I agree with you that direct measures and wage increases will certainly be better in the long term. But a number of young people, partly middle-aged people, had basically already made their choice in 2009. For example, from kindergarten teachers, as you know very well, we insisted on going back to college ourselves. Very many of them, such as teachers of children living in the countryside, deliberately made this choice by borrowing loans, paying for their studies and living. They did it with the knowledge that they would continue to work in kindergarten, and then the loan would be cancelled. Similar cases are among cultural workers. Do you not, however, consider it fair to review it at least for those who had already started their studies by 2009, for example, a year, two or three years of study and a student loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U56	The right to erase a student loan arises from the moment people have taken up work after completing their studies at a higher education institution. When there are cases where people had suspended their employment contract, they went to study and then returned to school, I believe that these cases should be analysed and possible solutions found when such injustices have occurred.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U57	Mailis Reps, the second question to be specified, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U58	Thank you. Can it be concluded that in certain cases and in certain sectors you are prepared to analyse the deletion of student loans in addition to what the law says, i.e. completed in 2009 and worked for at least a year? Can we also take back, for example, studies started in 2009 or passed more than half of the studio, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U59	I certainly would not like to review this decision in principle, on the basis of any general principles. I admitted that if injustice has been born and the law has been misinterpreted or people have been unjustly caught up in red tape, as you pointed out in the case of kindergarten workers, I am prepared to analyse this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U60	No questions registered on the spot. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U61	Let us move on to the sixth question put by Urve Palo, a member of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip answers this and the topic is investments by Eesti Energia. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U62	Good President! Prime Minister! What financial commitments has Eesti Energia made in connection with developments in Jordan, Morocco and the USA, and how does the financing of Jordan, Morocco and US projects affect the financial capacity of the Estonian Energia Group to make alternative investments, even here in Estonia? Money for projects is known to have been borrowed on behalf of the group and secured by the group's cash flows and assets. This means that the group's ability to make other investments will be reduced. What will be the fate of these developments if it turns out that the reliability of the Enefit-280 device shows serious shortcomings and investors are not interested in participating in these projects? Who is responsible for the wrong management decisions that make investments in the chimneys?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U63	Thank you. I believe that every company, if it decides to make any kind of investment, will carefully consider all the pros and cons, prepare a very comprehensive business plan and then decide to make an investment. Of course, he will make this investment with the utmost conviction that he will make a profit. I believe that in the case of Eesti Energia, the considerations and approach to the topic have been exactly the same as for all other entrepreneurs. For Jordan's project, Eesti Energia's investments have already earned even by now. As we know, Eesti Energia has partially transferred its shares from the company created for the Jordan project, and the funds received as a result of this transfer have covered all the expenditure previously made for the development of the Jordan project. It is important to know that Eesti Energia still owns 65% of the shares of the company that is developing the Jordan project. If the project continues to develop successfully so far, it has been successful, then profits can emerge from it. If there is profit, it is possible to make other investments in Estonia or outside Estonia. I am not very well informed about the Moroccan project, but as far as I am aware, Moroccan oil shale is not used to produce oil shale oil with Enefiti technology, and at this stage of the research, Eesti Energia has completed its cooperation with its Moroccan colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U64	Urve Palo, the first question to be specified, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U65	Thank you. However, how much has Eesti Energia invested in three countries together? How much money is it, and if anything goes wrong, who is responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U66	Thank you. After all, we have the responsibility to know according to the Commercial Code, the board of directors is responsible. The management board shall also be jointly and severally liable for its personal assets if they have made decisions which are detrimental or knowingly loss-making to the commercial undertaking. In the same way, the members of the Council will be responsible if this goes badly. But, of course, this does not mean that, when it comes to a normal business risk, someone is immediately responsible, and when it comes to a good business project that is very profitable, the profits are public and state. I am not currently able to say the amount with the accuracy of the kroon or the euro, and that is why I am not going to speculate. Investments are currently mainly made in the United States. I described Jordan's project. No significant investments have been made in Morocco at all. The cost of the United States project has also been made public in the press, which is why I do not want to name any sums of dubious value from my memory.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U67	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U68	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have a brief specific question. Does the Government of the Republic have an idea in drawing up the budget for the coming year, perhaps already a decision to make a profit from Eesti Energia and to take it into account when preparing the budget, as was the case in previous years, or is this practice a thing of the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U69	Thank you. The state will certainly also take dividends from Eesti Energia next year, and I consider it very natural that the state-owned company will make a profit for the owner. Plenty has been said that excise duties could, for example, be reduced, although excise duties represent only 4% of the price of electricity, and thus the price of electricity to the consumer could be reduced and the state would earn less from the production and distribution of electricity. This approach is not quite appropriate, as excise duties have, as we know, replaced air pollution charges and this replacement was also absolutely necessary to ensure Estonia's energy security. If we were to apply the environmental charges appropriate to Eesti Energia, which would cover all the damage caused to the environment, this could mean that their production will become uncompetitive on the market and we will get the imported electricity that is today, but which may not be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U70	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U71	Let us move on to the seventh question posed by Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu. Jaak Aaviksoo, a member of the government, answers this and the topic is Narva Bastion. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U72	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I hope you share the view that Narva bastion is one of the most beautiful, most important monuments in Estonia. Unfortunately, in recent years, this heritage object is falling apart and this process has accelerated every year. The state last allocated money to the Narva bastions in 1998, in the current currency of EUR 32000. How do you assess the future of Narva bastion as an important historical object? What is the Ministry of Culture and, personally, your idea of how Narva Bastion repair works will develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U73	Good questioner! Since I held the office of Minister of Education and Culture, 16 years have passed, but I am happy to answer. I certainly share the view that the Narva and Ivangorod Bastion complex is an object of great national and international historical value and that the public sector should retain it for future generations. According to the Act, taking care of this heritage object is one of the tasks of the local government, Narva City Government. The current situation of the Bastions, unfortunately, does not give an impression of a benevolent attitude toward this historical object. The state has come to the aid of the local government in the past for this difficult task, and now, as I know, the state has tried to find and allocate money through the 2007-2013 cross-border cooperation programme of Estonia, Russia and Latvia. We hope that this programme will indeed be implemented: to establish a visiting centre in the gunpowder cellar in Narva, to create an exposition in Viktoria Bastion, and to build safe access routes for visitors to Viktoria Bastion. The call for proposals for this project will have a budget of EUR 3.47 million. Hopefully, this will at least partially compensate for the local government's failure to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U74	The first point to be specified. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U75	Thank you. Actually, Mr President-in-Office, that is not a question. I have to apologize to Mr. Aavixol. It was a mistake at work. I have, to my knowledge, signed a question addressed to the Minister of Culture, Lang. It was only when I looked at this page in this Chamber that I discovered that it had been sent to Mr Avikuskool, whose duties, of course, it was not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U76	Thank you. It seems to me that a member of the Government of the Republic doesn't mind and is understanding. A good fellow official is also understanding, so we will be able to put together these questions and ministers in the future. No questions to be specified. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U77	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good afternoon! We will start the third working week session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts and inquiries to the Riigikogu. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee s. A decision of the 19 April session will be taken by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to initiate four draft decisions of the Riigikogu: first, a draft decision establishing the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia; second, a draft decision setting up the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; third, a draft decision establishing the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation; fourth, a draft decision establishing the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U79	Riigikogu speech chair Rait Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have the honour to comply with the legal procedural obligation and to submit three draft decisions of the Riigikogu: the first is the draft decision to set up a special committee on the control of the state budget, the second is the draft decision to set up a special committee on the supervision of security authorities and the third is the draft decision to establish a special committee on the application of the anti-corruption law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U81	I ask for Kajar Lemberi in the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I welcome the transmission of the draft Act amending § 16 of the Road Act, which aims to set the amount allocated to local road investments as an exact percentage. It was known that a specific percentage of excise duty was applicable years ago, but that percentage was withdrawn from the law last year. As a result, the share of local road funding has decreased three times, and currently the national road per kilometre and local road per kilometre vary 15 times. It's an unreasonable difference. The draft does not require additional resources from the state budget, but requires political will to pay more attention to local roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U83	Dear colleagues, I have adopted eight drafts on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed the leading committees to them: the draft law on ratification of the Cotonou Agreement, initiated yesterday by the Government of the Republic, the commission is the Committee on Foreign Affairs; the draft law on the amendment of the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group yesterday; the commission is the Committee on Culture; the draft law on the amendment of the Social Tax and Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group yesterday; the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Good fellows! Yesterday, a parliamentary group of Estonia-Albania, Estonia-Dutch and Estonia-Lithuania and a Taiwanese support group were formed. Honourable Riigikogu! Today, immediately after the end of the session, a meeting of the Estonian-Italian and Estonian-Latvian parliamentary groups and the Hunters Support Group will take place in this Chamber. We're looking forward to active participation! Now, let's do the presence check. 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7. Good fellows! There are no clarifications on today's agenda, because there is no today's agenda. I wish you strength in your work! Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 2.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U84	Dear colleagues, if you now have questions in Question Time on any other subject you wish to address today, please press in the microphone! I have a request that you tell who you are asking a question from the members of the Government of the Republic and ask the question within one minute. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U85	Thank you. A question for the Minister of Culture Lang. Mr Lang, you've already heard the question, I've said it. I would just add to it that the City of Narva has participated on several occasions in applying for money from various measures and funds. There is always a very good assessment of the project from the funds, but everything ends with the Ministry of Culture putting Narva bastions so low in its priorities that it is not possible to launch any project in the end. So it all depends not only on the municipality, but also on the Government of the Republic, specifically the Ministry of Culture. I repeat this question: what is your and the Ministry of Culture's vision of the future of the Narva bastionists?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U86	Thank you. Mr Aaviksoo answered this question exactly as I would have answered it, only he did it in a much more polite way. In fact, the preservation of the heritage on the territory of the local government is still a matter of local government, and I am surprised in this sense that the local government in Narva has not given too much importance to the preservation and development of these bastions, simply hoping that the resources will come from somewhere else. After all, Narva has its own budget, which the city government is commanding, and if you do not have enough votes in the council to support the preservation of historical monuments through the allocation of funds, it is, of course, very regrettable. But I hope that we will now be able to do something about these basions in cooperation with today's Narva City Government, and I am thinking, above all, of the European Union funds. Because, as Mr Aaviksoo said, these are monuments of history, which have a European meaning and the preservation of which is of the utmost importance. So regardless of the way Narva City Government is working back so far, we will definitely do something about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U87	Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U88	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. My question is for the Prime Minister and my cooperation with our neighbours. The Prime Minister is certainly aware that, already during the previous government, a cross-border cooperation committee between Estonia and Latvia was set up with four working groups: the Working Party on Social and Medical Services, the Working Party on Transport, Energy and Environment, the Working Party on Education, Tourism and Sport and the Working Group on Cross-border Movement and Taxation of Labour. Twenty-three issues have been mapped out for these working groups, for which experts from different fields have also met to discuss. Prime Minister, are you aware of these issues and where you see the shortcomings? Can these issues be resolved in the current government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U89	I am quite convinced that cooperation between Estonia and Latvia is in a very good state, things are going normally. I don't see any shortcomings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U90	Dear colleagues and honourable members of the government! As Chair of this Question Time, I have a sincere request that we pay attention to what questions are being asked and try to be on the subject that is being asked about. Let's keep going. Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U91	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question for the Minister of Education and Science, Jaak Aavikkool. Mr Minister, your last coalition agreement, which you signed with the Reform Party, is such a point: we will complete the transition of Russian gymnasiums to the Estonian language of instruction and help the local governments to form strong Russian student groups, but with good Estonian-language learning, the so-called Russian lyzes. Can you explain what you mean by the Russian lyceums? What would be the form of ownership of the lyceums that will be taught in these schools, and what content will you give to this Russian lyceum?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U92	I would answer in two options, one perhaps more general, the other more specific. I am certainly among the people of Estonia who attach great importance to our historical national wealth for the future, including Russian language skills and Russian language skills at a very good level. This will enable us to communicate both culturally and economically with a large number of other countries and peoples, including the Russian Federation, and will certainly be a component of Estonia's future. The weakening of Russian-language education and the weakening of Russian-language skills in the Republic of Estonia certainly do not serve the interests of the Estonian state and the people. The fact that basically at least 60% of the teaching work takes place in the national language is not contrary to the desire to maintain education in the Republic of Estonia with a strong component of Russian language and culture, not only in Narva or Tallinn, but also in other areas of Estonia. How to do this in concrete terms must be discussed in particular in constructive cooperation with the local authorities where such schools exist, such a tradition exists. I see no reason why today's elite schools, or French and English schools belonging to the so-called elite schools, as well as German schools with a leaning slope, could not at least have the same level or, better still, educational institutions teaching Russian language and culture at a better level.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U93	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I also have a question for Mr Acucus. There is such a point in the coalition agreement that the possibilities of obtaining free higher education will be extended and, if I am not mistaken, 3,000 free places of study will be added. Do you think it is reasonable, and is there hope that the government will also try to alleviate the lack of footage that is currently plagued by the Russian-speaking school in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U95	I hope that all bottlenecks in the preparation of specialists will be addressed in cooperation between the Ministry of Education and employers and the opportunity must also be resolved, including the lack of Russian school teachers. However, I believe that more than increasing admission may need to be paid attention to raising the corresponding motivation, not only by future teachers, but also by school councils and management. I am quite convinced that the problems of Russian school teachers, which are not fundamentally different from those of Estonian school teachers, must be solved precisely by strengthening the various motivational schemes. The 30% wage supplement provided for in the Coalition Agreement for teachers teaching in Estonian in Ida-Virumaa is, in my opinion, a good and very positive step in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U96	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U97	Thank you, manager. A question for the Prime Minister. I would like to return to the first question of Question Time concerning the taxation of pensioners. Here, too, there was the claim that pensioners are even restricting the Social Insurance Board, and there have indeed been thousands who have turned there to get information. What happens to them now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U98	The Social Insurance Board is currently mainly contacted by 35,000 people by telephone. About one in 20 visitors has turned to the Social Insurance Board in the form of an application, and these applications are such that a thousand people who have written the application will receive their withholding tax back. To date, it is also known that about 150 people have to pay the state tax instead. For the rest, the result is zero, i.e. they don't get anything back, and they don't have to pay anything more. In other words, the vast majority of those who have now approached the Social Insurance Board have learned that all their affairs are in order. But this conclusion is not absolute, because I believe that in the near future, some of the people who have been in contact on the phone may also make a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-20_U99	Thank you! That concludes today's Question Time because our time is almost over. I thank the members of the Government of the Republic for their reply and thank the good fellows for asking. Today's Question Time is over.
