ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the eighth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will hand over two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. One draft is the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund and the other is the removal of the members of the Stabilisation Reserve Board and the appointment of new members.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U3	Thank you. There are no more requests for a bill to be handed over. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Let's get to the messages. On Wednesday, 8 June, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. 88 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, there is no 13. Good Riigikogu! Let's get to today's agenda. Before I do, ladies and gentlemen, I have a request that we begin the sitting of the Riigikogu a little more quietly. Thank you very much. There are two draft decisions of the Riigikogu and eight draft laws on the agenda. The first item is the item tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs on... I'm sorry! There is one more specification of the agenda. On today's ninth item on the agenda, draft Act No 7 on State Liability, Peep Aru, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U4	We are now going to the first item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund. Mr Tõniste, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, would like to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 17 May, the Economic Commission discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Estonian Development Fund Supervisory Board. According to § 10 (3) of the Estonian Development Fund Act, three representatives of the public and two members of the Riigikogu must be appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Economic Commission. As the term of office of Raivo Vare is not yet over, two representatives of the public and two representatives of the Riigikogu must be appointed. On the proposal of the Economic Commission, the Board of the Development Fund was nominated by the Enterprise Estonia Foundation Mart Einasto and by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Jaan Sven Männik and Erik Terk, among whom two candidates for business and the public had to be submitted by the Economic Commission for inclusion in the draft decision of the Riigikogu. The vote and the results of the vote were as follows: Mart Einasto received 6 votes in favour, Jaan Sven Männik 6 votes in favour and Erik Terk 2 votes in favour. On the proposal of the Economic Commission, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund was nominated by the Estonian Reform Party Group Kaja Kallas, by the Group of the Social Democratic Party Urve Palo, Isamaa and Res Publica by the Group of the Union Urmas Reinsalu and Kadri Simson from the Group of the Estonian Central Party, from whom two representatives had to be submitted for inclusion in the draft decision of the Riigikogu. The results of the vote were as follows: Kaja Kallas received 5 votes in favour, Urve Palo 4 votes in favour, Urmas Reinsalu 5 votes in favour and Kadri Simson 4 votes in favour. It was decided: to submit Mart Einasto and Jaan Sven Männik as candidates for the draft decision of the Riigikogu as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Development Fund as candidates for the draft decision of the Riigikogu; to submit the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing members of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund' to the plenary procedure (the decision was taken by consensus). If the Executive Board of the Riigikogu decides to proceed with the draft decision and appoints an Economic Commission as the lead committee, I will report to the commission by consensus. At the meeting of the Economic Commission on 30 May, the discussion on sending 53 members of the Riigikogu's draft decision 'Announcement of the members of the Estonian Development Fund Council' to the plenary session was again on the agenda, and it was decided that the draft decision 'Announcement of the members of the Estonian Development Fund' was not sent to the plenary assembly by 4, 4 against and 0 abstentions. At the meeting of the Economic Commission on 2 June, it was decided to send a draft of the decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs to the Riigikogu to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 7 June and to propose the adoption of the draft 53 (decided by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U6	Thank you. You have a question. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'd like to know the procedure for choosing suitable representatives. I understand that party membership was important for the representatives of the Riigikogu, that the members of the coalition were suitable and that the members of the opposition were not. But in the case of so-called public representatives, you had to find two of the three very good candidates. Were they heard? Two of them had been in the Development Fund so far; one was decided to be replaced. Did they hear what they have done so far as a member of the Council, what their vision is, or was there some other decision-making procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U8	Thank you. They were not heard in the Commission. We had their CVs, and perhaps some of the members of the Commission knew them personally, so at least the debate turned out. Everyone then voted on their knowledge skills.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U9	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U10	Thank you. Dear waitress, According to the results of the vote, four members of the Commission decided that this draft should come to the Chamber and four felt that it should not come. Consequently, eight members of the Commission were present. When you spoke of representatives of the public, you said that the votes were divided into 6, 6 and 2, i.e. a total of 14 votes had been given. How did you share the votes on how many votes each Member of the Commission had in the election of representatives of the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U11	Everyone had two votes, as I recall.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U12	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U13	Dear waitress, Would you explain what is so party-political in the activities of the Development Fund that there can be no representative of the opposition in this Council? Mr Einasto is also a member of the IRL.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U14	Thank you. I don't know how to answer that. The Committee on Economic Affairs tried to find the best representatives of the Development Fund, and I hope that this has happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U15	Thank you. No more registered issues. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. I'm sorry! Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You will lead the hearing quickly and efficiently, just as the ruling coalition will lead the Estonian state. Some time ago, in this Chamber, we dealt with the draft decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre and then the ruling coalition took the view that political balance would be ensured even if representatives of both the Fatherland and Res Publica were included in this council. One would think that there has now been some development and political balance has been achieved with representatives of both the Reform Party and the IRL forming part of the Council. Of course, the voting procedure, which is not provided for by law, can be adapted to achieve anything other than a politically balanced outcome, but it is bad political practice. And sometimes bad practice is even worse than bad law. The Estonian proverb says that what you sow, you reap, and another saying is that if you sow the wind, you will reap something worse. Perhaps when the ruling coalition brought this bill to the hall, it has been thought that if the next government is made up of Social Democrats, their political culture will not allow it to descend so low, and perhaps you are right about that. But maybe there will be times in Estonia when power is exercised by a political force whose understanding of political culture is not so high. Given that the ruling coalition has once again given up, or I would say, spit on good political practice and the principle of the balance of political forces, the Social Democrats will vote against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U17	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it. We will start preparing the voting procedure. I will put the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, 'Announcement of the members of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund' to the final vote on 53. The result of the vote is 48 votes for, 43 against and no abstentions. Draft 53 of the Decision of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu "Announcement of the Members of the Board of the Estonian Development Fund" has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U18	We will proceed to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of Bill 59 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the air security mission in Iceland." I'd like a presentation from Secretary of Defense Mart Laari.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I am before you today to introduce the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the air security mission in Iceland'. Iceland is known to be one of those NATO countries that lack their air security capabilities. Following the departure of the United States forces, including the Air Force, from the Keflavik military base in 2006, Iceland will manage its radars itself and will also carry out air surveillance. These radar systems are known to be integrated with NATO's respective systems. As I have already said, Iceland does not have its own air security capability, which is why its air security issues have been resolved in the same way as the three Baltic States, i.e. NATO countries are participating, a little differently organised, protecting Iceland's airspace with their own aircraft and specialists. As a NATO Member State, Estonia also has the opportunity and moral obligation to participate in such an operation. In addition, such an operation will also benefit the development of our air force, allowing us to gain experience in air operations. The Icelandic Air Security Mission (ISLAPS) is an operation to ensure the protection of the airspace of a NATO Member State, to be officially stated. We are best placed to participate in this operation with ground crews, or targets, who supervise fighters in the air. The draft provides for the use of up to three Estonian Defence Forces in this mission from the date of adoption of the mandate until 31 December 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U20	Thank you. You have a question. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Is this also a burden on the budget of the Estonian state or are these funds found elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U22	If someone is being sent on a mission, it certainly means allocating resources. This money is also included in the Ministry of Defence's budget and is planned to be around EUR 3600 in 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U23	Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. Thank you very much, Mart Laar. Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to the first reading in its s. a at the meeting on 2 June. Riho Rõngelep, Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence, took part in this meeting of the National Defence Commission. The draft was also related to the National Defence Commission. 31 May 2009 meeting, where the Commission received an overview from the representative of the Defence Forces of the activities of Colonel Peeter Hopelt of the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces and the preparation of the mission under discussion. According to the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion, Estonia fulfils the allied obligations arising from NATO membership and participation in the NATO-led Icelandic air security mission is directly due to the interests of the security of the Estonian state. In fact, NATO constantly secures the airspace of Estonia, and the Estonian defence force targetants sent to Iceland will gain the necessary skills and experience from this mission, which will be useful for the development of the entire Estonian air force. At the meeting of 2 June 2011, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft decision be included on the Riigikogu agenda for the first reading on Tuesday, 7 June 2011. The rapporteur for the draft is Mr Mart Laar, Minister for Defence, who was appointed rapporteur for the National Defence Committee. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided s. a At its meeting on 2 June, by consensus, the Riigikogu should be invited to stop reading the draft and, on the basis of § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act, ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set the deadline for submitting 59 amendments to the draft decision. tho 13 June at 10 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U25	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Marianne Mikko. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the leading committee is to conclude the first reading of the Bill 59 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the air security mission in Iceland." First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. tho 13 June at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U26	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the cross-Community involvement of workers initiated by the Government of the Republic. Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of the Environment has not started to deal with employee-wide issues, but I am here to replace the Minister of Social Affairs, who is the representative of the government in the Riigikogu for this draft. The draft is quite technical in nature. This is a transposition of a directive, which requires a change in the Community-wide involvement of workers. The purpose of the Act is to ensure that employees are informed and consulted on matters which are relevant to them at the level of the Community-wide undertaking and group of undertakings. Estonia was obliged to transpose this directive into national law by 5 June of this year at the latest, which was quite recently viewed in the calendar. But the fact that the draft Riigikogu is still discussing during the last weeks of the spring session is certainly a good sign and shows that there is a willingness to transpose this directive. As far as cross-Community companies are concerned, there are no large companies within the meaning of a specific law in Estonia, which does not exempt us from the obligation to transpose the directive. It must therefore be said that there will be no significant change compared to the current situation. Nevertheless, this is a very good and important draft, which the government kindly asks the Riigikogu to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U28	Thank you very much. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You mentioned that this directive, which we are about to transpose, does not currently concern any company in Estonia. Do you have a clear understanding of when such companies could be registered in Estonia or when they could start operating in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U30	Thank you. I said that there are no large companies in Estonia within the meaning of this law. However, there are companies located in Estonia of the Community-wide entrepreneurs, which are estimated to be about a few hundred. Examples include TeliaSonera in the field of telecommunications. For these companies, the European Works Councils in which their employees' representatives participate are entirely present, but these works councils are not located in Estonia. So these companies are concerned. It is very difficult to predict when there will be large companies in Estonia that will be directly regulated by this law. The more multinational companies operate in Estonia, the more large companies, the better, of course, for our economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U31	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U32	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You see, there are a number of directives on workers' rights and obligations. I imagine that most people know nothing about these laws and directives. Is there any mechanism in place to make all these rights and obligations, as defined in the directive, known to a person who, for example, becomes employed in such a cross-connector?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U33	Thank you. This is undoubtedly a very important issue. In order for all people working in Estonia to be aware of their rights and the laws governing these rights, we must probably work together a lot. I believe that the members of the Riigikogu, among other things during intersessional times, will make a major contribution to ensuring that all the laws that Parliament adopts and that enter into force are unambiguously understood and known to our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U34	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U35	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said that this bill was of such a technical nature. I think there's a lot, a lot of substance here. The explanatory memorandum states that the Estonian Trade Union Confederation made its proposals and some of them were taken into account. Can you tell us which proposals of our Confederation of Trade Unions were taken into account and which were not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U36	Thank you. The technical nature of the draft is in the sense that the directive spells out very precisely which standards must be transposed, and we do not have much political discretion. With regard to this draft, the Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs have opted for the fact that the draft essentially takes over the conditions and requirements arising directly from the directive. That is what I meant by these technical changes. As far as cooperation with trade unions is concerned, according to the Ministry that led the preparation of the draft, this cooperation has been absolutely good and work-related. I do not have the minutes of all these work meetings or all the proposals that have been tabled, but it is certainly possible for the Ministry to forward them to you if there is such an interest. As regards the proposal, which was not taken into account, it is also set out in a very substantial and comprehensive table of coordination in the explanatory memorandum. In particular, trade unions wanted to open up the whole Community-wide issue of workers and not restrict itself to transposing the Directive. The Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs considered that the draft, especially given that the deadline for transposition of the directive was about to fall, has already fallen, it makes sense to limit itself to the requirements to be transposed from the directive and not to open up the subject at the moment. If there is a desire to open up the subject more widely, of course, this can still be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U37	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have this question with regard to this draft: does the draft entail expenditure on the budget and how much are it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U39	Thank you. In this regard too, the explanatory memorandum, which I am sure you have worked through very thoroughly, contains all the information. This bill does not entail any additional expenditure on the budget. As I said in my introduction and also in response to your colleague Kalle Laanet's question, there are no large companies in Estonia that would be subject to this law. In particular, expenditure would relate to the costs incurred by large companies, so that the adoption of the draft does not entail high costs for companies. And since this is a clarification of the regulation already in place, there will be no fundamental changes to this draft. It is a matter of clarification and transposition of technical details and requirements arising from the Directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U40	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Keit Pentus! I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Legal Affairs Committee of Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U41	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft on 48 Monday, 30 May 2011. The Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, gave explanations during the debate. As in this House, the Commission's debate primarily addressed the potential costs of transposing the directive for Estonian entrepreneurs and it became clear to us that it is not currently substantially affecting the costs of our companies. However, the draft specifies in very detail when a Community-wide undertaking or group of undertakings must inform their employees of the implementation of European Works Councils or other inclusion measures. This will certainly help to ensure better involvement of employees in the management process of companies if we ever have large companies whose central management is also located in Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously proposed that the first reading of this draft be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at two working days, i.e. the deadline is on Thursday 9 June at 4 p.m. The Commission will discuss the amendments received on Monday 13 June and at second reading we hope to come to the large hall before you on 15 June. If the second reading of the draft is completed, we hope that the draft can be put to the final vote on 16 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U42	No questions have been registered to the rapporteur. Thank you, Neeme the Great! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the Leading Commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers, initiated by the Government of the Republic. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. 9 June 2010 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U43	The fourth item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act 55 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This time it is a draft that is from the field of the Ministry of the Environment, namely the draft amending the Water Act. This draft is also a transposition of the European Commission directive. The amendment is due to a directive setting out the requirements for laboratories carrying out chemical analyses of water. The aim of the Directive is to ensure that analyses are carried out on a uniform basis, that the rules and conditions laid down for laboratories are comparable and that, as a result, the results of the analyses are comparable. With a specific legislative amendment, the Labs Directive is partially transposed, fully transposed by a ministerial decree to be introduced under this law. The requirements are laid down in particular for the technical characteristics of the monitoring and for the chemical analysis of water. Perhaps it is interesting and important to know that the laboratories to which these conditions apply are now around 35. They're test labs. Reference laboratories have in turn been selected from among the testing laboratories, subject to somewhat stricter conditions. There are currently three reference laboratories in Estonia: Environmental Research Centre, Environmental Engineering Laboratory of Technical University and Estonian Geology Centre of OÜ. In addition, the draft specifies the provisions for water research, the implementation of which has had some problems in the past, such as the functions and designation of these same reference laboratories, the organisation of sampling. As a new change, the concept of water survey will be clarified, and it will also cover bottom sediments of water bodies in the future. In short, this is, in any case, a very good and necessary draft, which the government is asking the Riigikogu to support and which will certainly result in our water research, water research in water bodies, becoming more accurate and comparable at international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U45	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! Are these changes also relevant to the terms of contracts relating, for example, to water undertakings?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U47	Thank you. No, these changes still concern only water samples from water bodies. All that is related to drinking water research, for example, remains within the remit of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The changes are aimed at water quality studies in Estonian water bodies and the agreements you mentioned do not concern them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U48	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Keit Pentus! I ask Karel Rüütel, vice-chair of the Environment Commission, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U49	The Environment Committee discussed this draft on Tuesday, 31 May 2011. Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment and Enn Liive, Chief Specialist of the Water Department of the Ministry of the Environment, participated in the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. The representative of the Government of the Republic handed the draft over to the Riigikogu on 30 May 2011. The aim of the draft is to partly align the Water Act with the European Commission Directive, i.e. it includes technical specifications for the chemical analysis and monitoring of the state of water. As today, the Minister for the Environment gave a comprehensive overview of the draft in the Committee on the Environment. The Minister of the Environment stated that the draft is, in substance, a transposition of the Labs Directive and the aim is to make the results of water analysis in the Member States of the European Union comparable. By transposing the Directive, uniform requirements will be laid down for laboratories. Enn Liive, the Chief Specialist of the Water Department of the Ministry of the Environment, also added that the Water Framework Directive aims to ensure good status of water bodies in terms of both chemical and ecological characteristics by 2015. He stated that the aim of improving the water system was to determine whether the water bodies would improve or deteriorate. The Environment Committee also pointed out that the current practice in the European Union has shown that the results of the analyses of different laboratories in the European Union may vary by up to ten times within a single substance. However, as very positive news, Enn Liive stated that the status of Estonian water bodies is good. The Commission adopted a decision to appoint Karel Rüütli, member of the Environment Commission, as rapporteur for the 55th draft law amending the Water Act. This decision was taken in a consensual manner. Secondly, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft law amending the Water Act be put on the Riigikogu plenary agenda for the first reading on Tuesday, 7 June 2011. This decision was also taken in a consensual manner. Thirdly, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu's plenary that the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act 55 should be completed, and this decision was also a consensus. Fourthly, it was decided to propose to the Management Board of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting 55 amendments to the draft law amending the Water Act be set at 10 a.m. on Thursday 9 June 2011. This decision was also taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U50	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U51	Thank you, Honourable Speaker. Paragraph 121 (7) of the Water Act is corrected and this paragraph specifies that reference laboratories shall carry out comparative testing of testing laboratories. Can you tell us how many reference laboratories there are in Estonia and what conditions are set for them to act in these areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U52	Thank you. This was indeed mentioned in the Commission. As the Minister told you here earlier, 35 laboratories are carrying out physical-chemical analyses in Estonia and are subject to certain general requirements. There are three reference laboratories in Estonia: the Centre for Environmental Research, the Environmental Engineering Laboratory of the Technical University and the Estonian Geology Centre of OÜ. This is what the Ministry of the Environment gave us in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U53	No further questions. Thank you, Karel Knight! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. tho 9 June at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U54	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I will start with two draft laws amending the law on ambient air protection on today's agenda, one on number 56, and the other on the next on the agenda. I have already been asked why there are two draft amendments to the law with one name, whether it would not have been reasonable to add them immediately and bring them to the Riigikogu as one draft. The reason why we are twice in front of Parliament today with a draft of the same name is substantive. This is two changes, which regulate a completely different part of our ambient air, and we considered it reasonable not to confuse two different issues. The first draft, which is called 'the draft law amending the law on the protection of external air' and number 56, is one that regulates the purity of the air, simply to say air quality. As regards the content of the draft law, these are amendments transposing the requirements of the new ambient air quality directive. The aim of the directive is very noble: to ensure a cleaner living environment for European citizens, including by regulating, controlling and reducing the presence of particulate matter and their precursors in ambient air. This directive, which we are transposing, is a combination of earlier directives. In particular, the framework directive on ambient air quality adopted 15 years ago and all its later daughter directives concerning the levels of the various pollutants have been incorporated into one directive. In Estonia, air is generally a good story, such large fluctuations or high levels of pollutants in ambient air have not generally been detected. The exception is the area of Liivalaia Street in Tallinn, where fine particles in the air have been higher than it would have been reasonable in previous years. An action plan has also been adopted to reduce this share of fine PM10 particles in air. This has been done in cooperation with Tallinn City Government and Tallinn Offices. One measure of the action plan, or rather one of the things we have asked Tallinn to observe very seriously, is the waste material remaining on the roads in winter, which later flies when driving a car and these small particles contaminate our breathable air. In the rest of Estonia, no higher than the fine or very fine particle standard has been observed, so in general we can still be relatively calm in the knowledge that the air we breathe on the street is quite good. As regards the transposition of the Directive, three regulations of the Minister for the Environment will also be amended in conjunction with this law on ambient air protection. Following the amendment of this law and regulations, the directive has been fully transposed into our legal space. This is a very good draft that the government is asking Parliament to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U56	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned fine particles on slippery roads in this winter. Was the preparation of this bill also discussed in order to put some kind of siege into place, since the sand used in winter should have been harvested? And the second question. Every spring, when we start fixing the tea holes in the cities, we see how the road is covered with fine rubble, and it stays there until the cars spread it out. It'll give you more dust. Was there any discussion about banning such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U58	Thank you. There were no discussions as to whether improving roads with rubble would be banned, and I do not consider it reasonable in the form you have now served it. There is a specific question of how quickly to do this, how effectively to do it, and this is certainly an important opportunity for municipalities, among other things, to contribute to improving air quality. One issue which does not relate to this draft, but which is increasingly addressed by the Ministry of the Environment, concerns noise pollution. This is a completely separate issue which does not respond very well to the current draft, but this issue must probably be dealt with quite seriously. The second question was whether there was a plan to set very specific deadlines when winter bulk materials or road maintenance will have to be removed from the streets. The plan is that when measuring the level of particles in the air, it is found to be higher than permitted, it needs to be reacted quickly and flexibly. In order to set a specific date by law, we did not discuss it separately. But the response really should be quick and flexible and take into account that the clean air that is being inhaled is ultimately in the interests of the people who live in that city. I will also say at once that, according to the measurements, air quality has been somewhat better this year in this same area of Liivalaia Street. Compared to a year ago, there have been fewer days when the proportion of small particles in air exceeds normal. So let's hope the air in Tallinn gets cleaner.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U59	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! It was very refreshing and positive to hear from you that we're fine with the air. At least the air is fine, although you claim the city of Tallinn is ruining this air with particles of dust, sand and salt. But my question is this: what status is this air in anyway? Is it the same as state land, state forest and mineral resources, some sort of state resource? As I understand it, the state is investing in air surveillance, perhaps also in improving air quality. So is air a resource of the state or what relationship does the Estonian state have with the air mass that is above the Estonian state in the atmosphere, at least in the part where the lands have not yet been privatized or sold at auctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U61	Thank you. The air is an integral part of the human environment. It is not possible to draw a line between a border and say exactly whose interests and whose property are the air that we all inhale when moving in this hall or in nature. I think it is in all our interests that the air is clean, and the changes that should be made in order for it to become increasingly clean are common for everyone. It cannot be said that it is either a matter of the state or a matter of the municipality or only a matter of a few bodies monitoring the air. I think it's a thing that could have a lot on everyone's mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U62	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U63	Thank you, good manager. Madam Minister! I have a simple question. I agree with you that air is an integral part of our living environment. But when we talk about small particles flying in Tallinn, I still remember the question of return tyres. Did you also discuss that, for example, as you know, 100 km through the back tires, these small particles fly closer to 5 kg? Was that the subject? Was that even under discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U64	Thank you. After all, this topic is regularly under discussion, and if we are looking for solutions to reduce air pollution, then we will be sure to consider the back tires as one of the topics. But there are still possibilities. Speaking specifically about the area of Liivalaia Street, one of the reasons why the air is perhaps not the best there is what you can probably identify every day when you are travelling in Tallinn: it is not the smoothest street, it is a street where congestion often occurs. Since congestion is speeding up and slowing down, you may realize that what is emitted is not helping to clean up the air, but vice versa. So there are a variety of possibilities and the smoother the traffic is inside and outside the city, the less polluted the air as a summary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U65	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U66	Thank you. I'd like to ask you about scent contamination. If noise pollution does not relate to this bill, then by clean air, I also mean that a person does not have to hold his nose and can keep windows and doors open to clear the room. This is a problem in some areas. Does the draft deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U67	Thank you. This draft addresses a problem that can be identified as a result of air surveillance, as a result of air quality measurement. So it doesn't specifically regulate the bad smell in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U68	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U69	Thank you. Hopefully, the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection will improve the law, but will it also improve air quality? The question in this respect: can you tell us which standards air should meet or what chemical composition, so that the Estonian state will find that there is no need to improve air quality anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U70	Thank you. Small and particularly small particles are then PM10 particles, which are not directly hazardous to health, and PM2,5 particles, which may be directly hazardous to human health in the air, are being monitored. If monitoring stations detect that the concentration of these particles in the air is too high, then of course they must be responded to and an action plan prepared to improve air quality in a specific region (the one I referred to above), for example, in cooperation with Tallinn about Liivalaia Street and the city centre of Tallinn. Air surveillance will monitor the situation on an ongoing basis. First of all, an analysis is carried out which is the result of exceeding the normal concentration of specific fine particles. They're trying to figure out what the reasons are, and then to deal with them. As far as chemical analysis and chemical composition are concerned, I will certainly send you a very detailed overview of this to e-mail so that you can shape your position on whether or not the draft is sufficient to ensure a reduction in the proportion of particulate matter not intended for human health in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U71	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U72	Thank you. Good minister! We come a little further from Liivalaia Street and look at Tallinn as a whole. I have a simple question for you: do you support the ban on studded tyres or not? When the next winter arrives, what tires will the Minister of the Environment's car, which is a model for everyone else, be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U73	Thank you. In the final part of the question, I do owe you an answer. I personally do not deal with the issue of supplying the Minister's official car with tyres or other necessary items. Once again, if this topic is the closest to your heart, perhaps there will be a department in the Ministry of the Environment who can contact you separately on this matter, so that you can have a comprehensive overview of the conditions under which the Minister of Environment's car will meet during the winter, what exactly is used, what fuel will be fueled, etc. I'm sure there's an opportunity. But if you come specifically to the air of Tallinn, I think that any measure that makes the air cleaner is not too much, unless it leads to excessive costs or becomes an obstacle in another area. Back tires are not the only way to improve the air in Tallinn, also in this area of Liivalaia. You've been fresh into the government yourself. I believe you can confirm that improvements and improvements in urban air are being made in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U74	Please, Erki Arrow, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U75	Thank you. Dear Minister, I certainly did not want to point out with my question that road repair should stop. But what I am asking is this: if the Environment Agency makes public an action plan to reduce emissions of pollutants in different regions, could there be proposals specifically for sanding and collecting open fragments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U76	Thank you. The concrete action plan and, if it has been found that air quality has deteriorated in one region or another, it is indeed proposed to the municipality. In particular, on the basis of the experience of the winter last year and the winter before, the city of Tallinn has been offered a proposal to start cleaning the streets faster, not to allow the hot and dry weather to blow up this dust for a very long time. So such proposals have been made. But, as I said, an action plan can only be effective if it is implemented in cooperation. We may be able to make suggestions, but if these suggestions remain on paper, they will be of little use. Just for the record, looking for air quality monitoring and ways to improve air quality is not just a problem for Estonia or Tallinn. This is a very important issue in the context of the same directive to be transposed in other European Union countries. Not too far away from us in Riga, for example, there is a serious dispute about this at the moment, because there have been quite a number of breaches of the limits found. Air quality data must also be submitted to the European Commission. These are not just data that is presented and which the European Commission takes note of, but when the Commission sees that there is a consistent infringement, for example, in the case of Latvia, there is currently a dispute as to whether or not the European Commission is initiating infringement proceedings. The infringement procedure, as you know, can also result in a financial penalty. So this is an important issue, air is not such a secondary issue, air must be monitored and air quality must be good.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U77	Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will come back to this directive. Years ago, when the directive was developed, the so-called southern states, which are dealing with sand dust from the desert, and the northern regions, which wanted to use sand during winter, remained in disagreement for a very long time. After a very, very long time, these rates were also changed. If, fortunately, we are now going to transpose the directive, these rates have changed considerably, have we analysed how much this will cost Estonia? After all, we are very much banning the use of sand, which most tea companies no longer use, and it is either replaced by granite chippings or chemicals. Have such tests been carried out as to how much more expensive it will be for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U79	No further questions. Thank you very much, Kalle Palling. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the 56 draft law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. tho 9 June at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U80	Thank you. Depends on how you measure it. The other way around, when our people breathe in polluted air and are constantly in an environment that is harmful to health, there are costs involved in one way or another. The cost of human health problems is similarly high. I don't think we can talk about any very high extra costs here. As you yourself mentioned, the use of sand is, in general, no longer a practice; it is no longer done. So I think this is not an area where there should be some form of further concessions. As I have said many times in today's report, it is that our air is clean, that our people can be in a daily environment that does not harm health and does not lead to later health problems, ultimately in the interests of everyone and will certainly contribute to maintaining human health. I think it's a value in itself, and it's worth the effort.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U81	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! You answered my question, but I thought about it for a while, and I realized I still didn't get an answer. My question, which I would repeat, was: is air a state resource or what status is air? Water is a resource, mineral is a resource, land itself, as much as it is national, is a resource. Their use is regulated. Is air a state resource, or what is the country's relationship with air?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U83	Thank you. The air is a common asset for all of us. If by state you mean all these citizens, all those people who live in Estonia, then surely there is air purity, I say once again, in the immediate interest of all of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U84	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U85	I would ask my colleague and my benchmate again. Is air a state resource or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U86	Thank you. The air is a common asset for all of us, which must be preserved, treated with good authority, and for which we must all stand together for good.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U87	Thank you. No further questions have been registered. Thank you very much, Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus! I would like to invite Mr Kalle Palling, member of the Environment Committee, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good listeners! As we can see from the previous debate, this is indeed a very good draft. Its aim is to transpose a directive laying down technical specifications for the chemical analysis and monitoring of water status. The draft was explained by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, heidi Koger, Head of the Department of ambient air at the Ministry of the Environment and Alla Romanova, chief specialist. The Minister presented the objectives and content of the draft to the Commission and explained that two one-named drafts were issued at the same time to the Riigikogu procedure, but their content was different and therefore the Minister wanted to deal with them separately. This is a transposition of the Ambient Air Quality Directive. This is due to the fact that a number of directives have been merged into one of the new ones in the European Union in order to ensure ambient air quality and contribute to improving quality of life. Air quality indicators under this Directive are PM2,5 and PM10 in the air. It is particularly dangerous for human health to exceed the standards for PM10 particles. The meeting of the Commission found that the ambient air quality of Estonia is generally good. Some problems, as we have heard before the debate, have been observed in the urban environment. Similarly, a larger amount of fine particles than permitted in the area of Liivalaia Street in Tallinn was mentioned as a separate example in the Commission. The Commission meeting also found that this was due to the winter use of salt and sand in anti-slip treatment, but the Commission also concluded that if the streets were cleaned in good time, this problem would have been solved. Here you can draw a parallel with home, that if you don't clean for a long time, there will also be confusion and dust over your head. Valeri Korb asked who is monitoring air quality. Monitoring is done by the Ministry of the Environment. This is not a task for the local government, but there is a need for general cooperation. At the meeting of the committee, it was decided to appoint the speaker of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection to act as rapporteur, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection be included on the agenda on today's day, to propose that the Riigikogu plenary propose that the first reading of bill 56 be terminated and that the deadline for submitting amendments be Thursday, i.e. Thursday. tho 9 June at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U89	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! There is a similar question for you too. When the directive was developed, representatives of both the southern and northern regions found that, at least at home ownership level, severe restrictions on sandfalls could mean very high costs for some homeowners. Walking around this winter may have been quite slippery in some areas, too, because sand was not allowed to be used, and for some homeowners, especially older people, it seemed to be too much to worry about granite fragments. So all other interesting things were put on the roads, and ashes and other things that had to be taken into consideration again. Did the Commission discuss how to resolve this dilemma? On the one hand, we want to keep the ambient air clean, but on the other hand, at least traditional households are used to using sand.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U91	Thank you. This was not the subject of the Commission meeting. But if the landlord has to sand the street bordering his lot and he uses another handy tool, then there will be no problem with snow in winter. The problem arises in the spring when the snow melts, the air gets warmer and the ashes become dusty, and then it is the responsibility of the owner of the house to clean up this piece of street. I think that this is certainly a problem and it needs to be dealt with, but it was not in the debate at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U92	Our sixth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair again by Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This is once again a draft, which is called "the draft law amending the law on the protection of external air." The bill is number 57. I would like to introduce a great thank you to the Committee on the Environment, which was prepared to discuss all these drafts at a fairly effective pace and quickly and proposed that they be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu. This draft is also a transposition of the Directive. One part of the draft relates to a directive that has already been subject to infringement proceedings against Estonia due to the delay in transposition. So we hope that by adopting this law, we will also be able to resolve one of the problems in the air. When I come to a specific draft, I would divide the substance of the draft into three parts. The first part transposes a directive that improves and extends the European Union's greenhouse gas emission trading system. One important decision Parliament would take with the adoption of the draft is whether power generators will be able to apply for emission allowances free of charge after the end of the current trading period, i.e. from 2013 onwards, or whether they will have to auction all the necessary units. The proposal of the Ministry of the Environment and the Government is that we provide for the possibility of electricity producers using the derogation provided for in the directive and applying for up to 70% of credits free of charge. Why 70%, why not 90% or 95%? 70% is the maximum rate that the Directive allows one Member State to implement. So our proposal is to apply this exception to Estonian electricity producers at the maximum rate. However, there are certain conditions for applying for a free quota. In particular, electricity producers who apply for free quota have an obligation to invest in the modernisation of electricity generation. In order to submit an application, electricity producers must first draw up an investment plan. Investment plans will be brought together by the government in September this year in a single package and submitted to the European Commission for review and approval. After the European Commission has shaped its position, we can say whether all applicants will receive free quota in the amount requested. About time. The timetable for applying for a free quota is as follows: if Parliament supports the draft submitted by the Government and adopts it as a law, 1 July is the deadline for the Ministry of the Environment to announce the deadline for submitting the application and endorse the form to be completed and submitted by operators interested in the free quota. By the deadline for submitting specific forms and applications, we have planned for 15 August. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; This deadline is rather short because the government is obliged to submit an investment plan to the European Commission by the end of September. When we receive applications by 15 August, the second half of September is the time when the Ministry of the Environment will go with these requests to the Government of the Republic, which should approve the investment plan and submit it to the Commission. After submission to the Commission, in turn, six months will be the time within which the Commission will be able to shape its position and inform us. So the first part of this draft law concerns the principle of whether we are giving electricity producers the opportunity to allocate 70% free quota. The draft also lays down quite precisely the conditions to be met by the investment plan submitted by a particular manufacturer. These conditions are not such as the criteria developed by Estonia, say, the ministries or the government itself, but are based on a communication from the European Commission on the basis of which the Commission will later state whether specific free quota applications are justified or not. We considered it reasonable to establish these conditions quite precisely at the level of the law, so that there would be as little later disputes or misunderstandings as possible. Part Two of the Act transposes the Aviation Directive, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the inclusion of aviation activities in the Union's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. This is now a directive which we are quite late in transposition and for which infringement proceedings are under way. The aviation sector will be included in the trading scheme from 2012. The question that was also asked in the Committee on the Environment is how many companies operating in Estonia or operating flights to Estonia are affected by this system. Estonia is a managing country for three airlines The third part of the draft concerns the establishment of a system of independent accredited verifiers in Estonia. So far, emissions verifiers in Estonia have been agencies in the administration of the Ministry of the Environment and have been at the expense of the taxpayer. For a company that emits greenhouse gases, the verification has been free of charge and it has to be said that a situation where the competent authority of the trading system has also designated a verifier and where there is no national accreditation system for independent verifiers has been exceptional in the European Union. With this draft, we now want to end this exceptional situation in Estonia and we want to bring the verification system into line with the directives and regulations governing trade, by setting up an accreditation system for verifiers in Estonia, which should ensure and ensure the independence, transparency and also competence of the verification process. Maybe that's all for an introduction. I'd be happy to answer the questions. This is a very large but very important draft that the government is asking Parliament to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U94	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Estonia has had a pretty good CO2 quota for the last few decades, with almost 40 million tonnes of CO2 per year being reduced to about 14 million. On the other hand, we have failed to manage the administration of this CO2 and air pollution. One example is that the European Commission has not confirmed the quota for the second period. Another example is the third part of this same draft: we are in a situation where we do not have accredited overseers, etc. Why do you think Estonia has not managed to administer properly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U96	Thank you. I do not agree that we have failed. Since you also touched on the current dispute and I know that many members of the Riigikogu have questions about this dispute, despite the fact that this bill does not directly relate to it, I would briefly stop at it. In the Commission, there was a question of what is the state of play of the dispute currently under way and how likely we are that this dispute will succeed before the end of the period, i.e. before the end of 2012. I am not going to dwell very long on history and how Estonia, in the first NAP submitted to the European Commission, initially asked us for a total quota of 24 million tonnes per year. Indeed, the moment is that we are negotiating with the Commission from the position that this distribution plan, which we would now like to present to the Commission, is based directly on the verified average of emissions for the current period. There's no subjective nuance inside. We have also excluded forecasts for electricity exports in the years to come, 2011 and 2012, which were quite a pain in the Commission's mind. The Commission was not at all pleased that we provided for quite large quotas for the years after exports. Evaluating the negotiating perspective is never such a very grateful job. The serious negotiations are currently under way, and the goal of Estonia is very unambiguously that the debate that has been dragged to a very long length can be ended. You said you couldn't handle it. I don't quite agree with that. Estonia has had very strong arguments, but the Commission has not taken these arguments into account so far. Today, the situation is really quite perilous; Estonia is the only country in the European Union that has so far not been able to confirm its distribution plan. The end of the period is the end of 2012. So for a very long time, there is no reason or opportunity to hold this argument anymore. As regards the system of accredited verifiers, it is important that this system is now operational. I would not be so critical and would not say that this has been an extremely deplorable solution, that so far it has been free of charge for exhaust blowers, and this has been done by the departments of the Ministry of the Environment. However, since the verification system itself is still undergoing quite a major change, the inclusion of the same aviation in the trading system is, in turn, a completely new part and requires a very thorough advance of knowledge, I think that the proposal contained in the draft to set up an independent accredited system of verifiers is very reasonable. I very much hope and ask Parliament to support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U97	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U98	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! I come back to setting up a system of verifiers. Directive 2009/29 was adopted in 2009 and envisaged the establishment of a system of independent accredited verifiers in the Member States. No such system has been created in Estonia today. If, in principle, the European Union has already done so since 2005, that greenhouse gas reports are validated by an accredited verifier, then Estonia has gone another way. My question to you, Madam Minister, has to do with this. I would like to know your opinion on why this accredited system of verifiers has been delayed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U99	Thank you. The transposition of the entire directive has been quite time-consuming for Estonia. All that is being dealt with in this draft has required quite thorough preparatory work and preparation in order to have a law that would be a good law and should not be changed immediately after a while. It was a fundamental decision that all the amendments resulting from the Directive would be considered as a single package. It is possible that another route could have been chosen, i.e. the transposition of the Directive in part. At the time, the decision was different. And once again, I don't think there's anything to blame for our current system. It cannot be said that the current system would not have worked. As the trading system is now expanding, there are new elements that also require new knowledge and a new level of verification, an accredited system of verifiers, I think that at the moment this change is necessary and sensible. Let's do it. At the time the system was set up, it was decided that the environmental verifier would initially be the bodies of the Ministry of the Environment and that the system would be free of charge for companies. It is now reasonable to change this system and to switch to an accredited verifier system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U100	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I, too, hope that Estonia will manage in the European Commission and the European Court of Justice with regard to our allowance system and the bill to be approved. On the other hand, I would like the Ministry to be able to deliver CO2 quotas to Estonian companies. They are shared in all other countries. Our companies don't know what their quota is. When do you think the companies will know what their emission quota is this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U102	Thank you. We have a common goal and a common desire here. That is precisely why we are negotiating very intensively for companies to be able to fix quotas under the NAP. Because until the Commission has approved the Estonian NAP, there is no certainty either. In this sense, it is certainly important that this dispute be brought to an end quickly. You mentioned that you hope that Estonia will be able to prove your arguments in court. Personally, I hope that we will no longer have to start the litigation and we will be able to reach an agreement as a result of the negotiations, because the previous litigation that Estonia had with the Commission on this issue lasted two and a half years. This is the summer of 2011, and if we add another 2.5 years, the distribution period will just be over. So I would very much like us not to go to court and we will be able to get approval of the NAP without a dispute. When's this gonna happen? I wouldn't risk saying a specific date. We're in the middle of a negotiation. I have the impression that the Commission is also prepared and interested in ending the protracted dispute and reaching an agreement. Of course, this is still a very big issue, so I do not have the courage to come up with a day-to-day deadline. 11 July is the date when Estonia has to decide whether or not to go to court. By 11 July, we will certainly not be able to get the distribution plan approved by the European Commission, but we could, as a result of the negotiations, have an understanding as to whether an agreement is likely to be reached or whether we need to re-select unreasonablely long and costly courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U103	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U104	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. We believe that, due to the work that has not been done, companies are in a pretty difficult situation. In particular, by 30 July 2011, the Ministry will require all greenhouse gas trading scheme companies to apply for CO2 quotas for the year 2013 to 2020 which have, of course, been confirmed by an independent verifier. As Estonia does not have an independent verifier, companies will have to calculate CO2 quantities within two months on the basis of a complex methodology and find expensive verifiers from Finland, Latvia and Sweden in the neighbouring countries. The situation is very complicated. I would like to ask you to comment on these time limits, which are really small at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U105	Thank you. This verification must, of course, be carried out regardless of the changes, and the obligation to demonstrate the permitted emissions is still the case for operators. But as regards the fact that there are no Estonian companies with the required accreditation, there are seven active companies in Estonia that have this accreditation. These are mostly branches of foreign companies. I agree that this schedule is very intensive. You can't say the opposite. The timetable is not only intense for proof, but, as I said in my introduction, it is also a very serious undertaking to meet the deadline set by the Commission to submit an investment plan for the next period by the end of September. It also requires the government, ministries and government institutions, as well as companies, to be carried out at a very rapid pace during the summer. But, yes, there are seven accreditors who meet the requirements. As far as I know, a very large number of operators have already made agreements by now, but there are certainly those who have not quite acknowledged that the date is 30 July and that verification must be carried out. Many have, however, been very active themselves and have also ordered certification from accredited companies without any change in the law. The situation varies between companies and operators. The schedule is intense, but I believe that, in the end, Estonian companies are so capable that they can manage.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U106	No further questions. Thank you very much to Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus for his constructive performance. Mr Kõiv, Member of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair, would you like to give a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U107	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law on ambient air protection at its meeting on 31 May. In addition to the Minister for the Environment, the head of the Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, kt Meelis Münt, and the adviser, kt Eve Tamme, were at the meeting. According to the draft, Estonia will take over the requirements to improve and extend the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme of the Community and, in addition, to establish rules on the allocation of emission allowances free of charge to electricity producers. Secondly, aviation activities will be included in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community from the following year 2012. Third, an independent accredited verifier system is set up in Estonia to verify greenhouse gas emissions. During the discussion of this draft in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, the Minister of the Environment gave the same good and thorough overview of the draft as here in the Saalisk. As a first part, we have discussed the issue of the CO2 distribution plan that we are now seeking and the state of play that the Minister has already told us about in front of this Chamber. I'm not gonna go over this again. The main changes were carried out during the debate on the specific draft. For example, if an operating operation is added to the trading system, which companies will be affected. These are again mentioned by Estonian Air, Small Planet Airlines and ULS Airlines Cargo. According to the draft, 97% of the historical amount resulting from the 2010 monitoring plan will be allocated to aviation in 2012. From 2013, the quota to be allocated shall be 95%, 15% of which shall be auctioned. All this sounds like a repetition, but the next quota trading period is 2013 to 2020. To this end, countries need to decide how much free quota they allocate to electricity producers. 70% is the maximum and Estonia has chosen this path. This 70% will start to decrease by 10% per year, so that by 2020 the free quota will reach zero. In order to trade the free quota, electricity undertakings must submit an investment plan, which the government will submit to the European Commission for approval. The European Commission will assess whether the investments included in the plan meet the conditions set out in the European Union Directive, which are included in the draft. According to Minister Keit Pentus, the further work plan of the Ministry of the Environment is very close, because, taking into account the so-called 'backwards' by the end of September of this year, Estonia is obliged to submit an investment plan to the European Commission. By 15 September, the Ministry of the Environment will have to submit an investment plan to the government for approval. 15 August is the deadline for applicants for free quota to submit a specific application to the Ministry of the Environment and on 1 July, i.e. only a few weeks from now, the Ministry of the Environment will announce the deadline for the submission of free quota applications and the form for applications. The Commission also asked which operators are entitled to apply for free quota. We received a reply from the head of the Climate and Radiation Department, Meelis Münd, that they are qualified as electricity undertakings in a trading system that sell electricity and do not engage in any other production area. Keit Pentus also spoke about the creation of a new system, where seven of them are currently operating on the Estonian market from accredited verifiers, can buy a verification service to assess the reliability and accuracy of the data reported in the greenhouse gas emission allowance report. The Committee on the Environment decided to appoint a speaker of the commission of the draft as rapporteur, to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on Tuesday, 7 June 2011, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading be terminated and to propose to the Riigikogu board that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection be set at 10 a.m. on Thursday, 9 June. All the above decisions were adopted by consensus by the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U108	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Tõnis Kõiv! A very thorough review. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to complete the first reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. tho 9 June at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U109	We come to the seventh item, which is the first reading of Bill No 1 amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! I am indeed extremely pleased to introduce you to bill No 1, namely the proposal to amend the basic school and upper secondary school law. In the previous Riigikogu we dealt with the new basic school and upper secondary school law for several years, and among the many changes we discussed the issue of catering students. Unfortunately, during that period there was a general view that we could come back to a few questions later. In particular, during the debate on the new draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, we had a rather deep economic crisis and it was found that this law would also extend free school food to upper secondary school students beyond the state. If we followed the electoral debates and we also look at the latest statistics, we can hope that the crisis will come to an end. If you believe the Prime Minister, it's gone. Consequently, the Centre Party Group has a proposal to renegotiate the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in order to extend free catering to upper secondary school students as well. Looking back at how school meals have developed, the topic discussed quite a number of times in the 1990s, whether ensuring free school meals for all students is important to the state, whether it should be in the field of the Ministry of Education and Research or the Ministry of Social Affairs, was decided in 2002 to introduce a free school lunch of 1 to 4. Class 1 students. As of 1 January 2006, school food was already guaranteed throughout the comprehensive school and in vocational schools for pupils studying on the basis of primary school. Why was such a decision to be made in 2006? If you look back, the Centre Party was in the coalition at the time, and the Ministry of Education was our responsibility. It was precisely that when we looked at indicators on a social need basis, it was clear that free catering for vocational students was perhaps more urgent, and since the money is always as much as it is, then a choice had to be made at the time. It was decided jointly in the government and also in the Riigikogu that we would bring in free catering for young people at a vocational school based on comprehensive school and that it will hopefully be followed very soon by free catering for upper secondary school students. It has been quite a few years since 2006. Unfortunately, to date, upper secondary school students do not receive the so-called 'food arrangements' support in the same form. And if you look at the very clear position of the students' representatives that they expressed last year in meetings with members of the Riigikogu as well as in their visits to the general public, the free catering in the upper secondary school is clearly their priority. If we look at the amounts, the increase in the catering for upper secondary school students will cost only a little over EUR 4 million, which hopefully, in a situation where the crisis should either be over or already over, as I said before, is not a clearly overachieving amount for the country. The other side of this draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act No 1 is a desire to look into the very painful rise in food prices. Once again, if you follow today's news, you'll find some pretty sad percentages. Food basket and food prices have increased very fast in recent years, especially in the last year, around 12 to 14%. This is indeed a very high price increase. Also, given that the Ministry of Social Affairs has set rather strict rules for food day and school food that a child, a student, a young person should eat at school, our proposal is to increase the cost of meals from 0.78 cents to 1 euro. These are our two proposals. If you look at the position of the Government of the Republic, it was clearly in favour of such an amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. However, it was made clear that our proposals could probably apply these changes from 1 January 2012 beyond the budget, that perhaps they would want to implement them later. The Centre Party Group would certainly be delighted if changes could be made with the next budget, but of course we look forward to the summer budget negotiations and opportunities. So basically, there is the notion in society that such state support is positive, and in the case of upper secondary school students, this need is also clear. In the case of upper secondary school students, there are two aspects that I would like to highlight here. The first is that it is essential for these young people to get warm food during the day because their days are very long. Very many, let's say, in a school with a certain slope or in a school with an intensive curriculum, children's, young people's days go to a deep afternoon. There are also days when the classes of young gymnastics additives, which may now be quite numerous according to the new curriculum, will not be completed until three or a half a day. And if this young person has not eaten proper warm food during the day, there is no way he can study in depth from a health point of view. Another thing that must certainly be pointed out in the case of upper secondary school is that when we talk about one euro, very many municipalities are forced to pay quite a lot more there. In some municipalities, this is also done by a parent. If we look at the general catering system, however, our ambition is for the state to at least cover the cost of food. How the municipality organises this catering, whether through private companies, through certain agreements, and how much more is to be paid there, it is quite different. Vocational schools, which are mostly public schools, have solved it quite nicely. In most vocational schools, the menu is quite varied, but this menu usually offers one meal free of charge, which should also feed the growing young man. Of course, it's possible to pay a little extra and get a couple of extra bags, but at least one food must be free of charge for a child or a young man-woman. In the case of upper secondary school students, whose portions and the needs of the growing organism are slightly higher, this additional cost is likely to be slightly higher. At the same time, when the state decided to extend free school meals to basic school pupils, one of the main arguments, apart from children's health and educational aspects, was that when food is guaranteed for all, the cost of one portion would be cheaper. Considering that not all students are present, it gives you the opportunity to play. Let's say the price of one rations was actually more expensive than the one that the state supported directly. Today, we have feedback from schools that the quality of food has clearly improved over the years and that is the subject of quite serious attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U111	Thank you very much. There are some questions for the waitress. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U112	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! One thing, of course, is money, which is never enough. We know that. But what is the position of the initiators of the draft, should the state also help schools to improve the quality of food? The quality of food is currently changing. There are quite a lot of schools where this money provides very delicious food, but there are also schools where food is not right. Often there is a lack of skills and good cook aunts. It is one thing to prescribe what the calorie content of food must be and how much nutrients food must contain, but also the taste and quality of food and whether children love it. This could be a little assisted by the so-called lack of know-how in all schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U113	Thank you. That's a very good point. If the members of the Riigikogu go to meet voters and the political groups are on trips, then I have always recommended going to the school cafeteria. In one way, it is a very positive experience for those who may have a little unpleasant memories of their school days. In general, school canteens are currently very attractive. Quite a lot of use is made of an open kitchen system where students see what is put into food. Even ventilation is much better, which means that the smells that come from the school canteen are more pleasant. But unfortunately, the problem with school food is that it is handled by two or even three ministries: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Monitoring the quality of school food, as well as these so-called prescriptions, fall under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. But in this sense, a good questioner, I agree with you that it is mostly the calories and certain pyramids of foodstuffs that are viewed and the quantities monitored. The taste of food is best decided by the young person himself or by his or her parents. In younger classes, the pressure of parents, as well as the attitude of children themselves, is important. I dare say that, for the most part, especially in smaller rural schools, there is a high degree of flexibility in the provision of food, and that there is also a need for a special menu for diabetics and allergics. It's very positive. However, the system tends to be quite inflexible when using externally supplied food that is delivered in thermos. Quite a large part of schools and kindergartens saved costs during renovation and started using companies to deliver food. When it comes to several lunch breaks, it is sometimes complaining that food is not quite warm. But that's a question of order. There's, say, more inflexible. Food quality municipalities are engaged. Rather, it is a problem for certain schools in large cities. In rural schools, quality is generally quite good and also in the city, when parents have a very strong connection with the school and the board of care is very strong, the catering is decent. However, where there is a slightly outdated understanding of cooperation with children and student self-government, feedback tends to be poor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U114	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U115	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When speaking here, you have identified the cost of implementing this draft as the cost of reimbursement of meals in comprehensive school and upper secondary school, but you have also identified the cost of paying for school lunch in vocational education in the explanatory memorandum. In relation to what do you have vocational education issues in the draft law amending the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U116	Thank you for a very good question. Indeed, we also had a debate on this in the Committee on Culture. In addition to municipal schools and private schools, we also have public schools. Public schools include vocational schools that provide for school lunches. If we increase the cost of school lunch from EUR 0.78 to EUR 1, then these costs must also be foreseen in vocational schools. Since state schools are funded directly through the state budget, we considered it important to point out the costs involved in vocational education at the level of the explanatory memorandum, although the VET Act does not mention school lunch as a specific point, but states it in the foundations of state funding. The Ministry of Education and Research, when making budget estimates, also makes estimates of the costs that would be added to the school lunch allowance for the provision of vocational schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U117	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U118	Good waitress! I thank you for the long and thorough explanation you gave to Imre Sooääre, but it seems to me that this story is not always so beautiful that it is flexible and responsive to special desires and tastes. I rather think that if things are good in rural schools, things may not be so good in city schools and that children's diet, food calories, fibre content, and everything else is still not in place so well. But that was a purely commentary, we can discuss this separately. I would like to say, in the sense of a bit of pickling, that when we talk in the draft about the reimbursement of school lunches, here you have been very sustainable, cost-effective and inconclusive in explaining. Must be a good mathematician to understand your expression... the requirement will be implemented as from 1 January 2012 for an amount of EUR 1. '
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U119	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U120	Are you going to be a little more precise at second reading so that a person does not have to start calculating very thoroughly according to the explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U121	Thank you. First of all, if you come to your question, I'm sorry I didn't read all the figures in the table, but if you have Bill 1, I have to say that I didn't know how to get more specific. This table sets out the cost of meals, the number of students, the number of study days and the total costs. In addition, the accompanying table shows the additional costs, as you can see. If we put these extra cost lines together, we will get EUR 8515500, or EUR 8.5 million. I really didn't read the bill, but I think the explanatory statement was very precise. What does that mean? This would mean EUR 4,35 million extra costs in 2012, if the cost of lunch were to be raised from EUR 0.78 to EUR 1, as already mentioned by Kaia Iva, and if the food costs for upper secondary school students were to be compensated, then an additional EUR 4,165 million would be added, amounting to EUR 8,5 million. In VET, an additional EUR 920000 will be added. Thus, if the cost of meals increased from 1 January 2012, the Ministry of Education and Research would have additional costs of just over EUR 9 million in total. I hope it was quite accurate. Indeed, when it comes to the quality of catering, I have no reason to believe that the supervisory authorities are not doing enough work. Rather, feedback has come from schools and kindergartens to check the ventilation equipment, refrigerators, and how food is cleaned and stored. I believe the supervisor is on a pretty good level. If you say anything about taste or quality, first of all, it's always individual. At least the ex-prompt visits at different times have shown that quality has improved significantly, but unfortunately it really varies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U122	Honourable speaker! You mentioned that school catering funding was not enough. I wonder if you also used the advice of the catering specialists when preparing this bill. After all, we know that a variety of foods with sufficient calorie are still needed for the development of a young organism. Did you use that advice? What should be the optimal amount for school lunches?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U123	Thank you. The budget issue was discussed in the Commission. You will see that in the draft explanatory memorandum, the Centre Party has also presented the cost beautifully. During the previous debate, Mr Reps asked where this one euro was taken from, what estimates or analyses it is based on, and whether this could lead to the opposite situation where local authorities will have to pay if food prices change, etc. Mailis Reps also answered these questions. I think there's a risk. I don't see the possibility of forecasting prices right now, so we don't know exactly what to do with a cent. The threat you referred to is completely there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U124	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U125	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Do colleagues want to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of Bill No 1 amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. June 21, 2010 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U126	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! It's nice to think that somebody's paying money to the state budget somewhere, and it's very popular to distribute it evenly. However, conservatively assessing the situation, there is no indication of an enormous increase in money coming to the state budget. In these circumstances, could it not be considered to support needs-based catering costs? In local governments, social workers have a very good overview of children and families who really need free food.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U127	Thank you, good questioner! I hope the local authorities will do it anyway. This does not require supplementing or amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. Certainly, local authorities do not need a precept that people who, unfortunately, fall below the limit of absolute poverty should receive subsidies. We have quite a large number of fantastic non-profit organisations that carry out campaigns, as well as catering in the course of projects. They do it in the summer, even when school canteens are closed. There are soup kitchens, charity catering, food bank, etc. I agree with you that people who are below the limit of absolute poverty should receive support from aid organisations, social workers and local authorities. Unfortunately, there have always been cases where these people have been overlooked for several years. However, all of this does not replace school meals. Because, as I have already said, feedback from school canteens shows that also in very successful, nice and successful, so-called competition schools, Monday is the day when children come and take bread slices with them before classes begin. Unfortunately, there's a lot more malnutrition on the weekends than we want to admit. So even in upper secondary school, it is certainly not possible to replace hot food by income support or dealing with families living in absolute poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U128	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U129	Thank you. Dear waitress, I opened a table on the website of Statistics Estonia, which shows that in recent years the rise in food prices in Estonia has been faster than the average price increase. We all know that the average price increase in Estonia is also the fastest in the euro zone. Here's my question. The Minister of Agriculture said yesterday, answering questions in the Chamber of Riigikogu, that he felt it was right to collect money with taxes and then give it to where it was needed. We all know that two years ago the VAT on food was raised, and the country has collected hundreds of millions of kroons in the budget on this increase. After the increase in VAT on food in 2009, has school food received additional public support, which would be about the same amount as the budget revenue from food products has been earned?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U130	Thank you. The cost of one school lunch has increased, but unfortunately not because there is more money in this budget line, but because the total number of students has decreased, which has resulted in an increase in the cost of a portion, but unfortunately not at this rate, as food prices have risen (12 to 14% per year). As far as the collection and allocation of money is concerned, the Minister for Agriculture has indeed made it very clear that such a very rapid increase in prices requires certain measures. Certainly, an increase in school food support to EUR 1 (although it turned out from the question of a good colleague that this is not enough) would be one measure that could slightly mitigate this very rapid increase in prices so that children would receive more or less decent and high-quality food at school, despite the rise in prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U131	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I hope you don't have any more questions, you're already tired, but I still want to talk about something. With the additional budget for 2009, the Reform Party and IRL reduced the rate of income tax for local governments and wrote in the law that local authorities are not obliged to carry out youth work or organise sports life. A recent analysis by the National Audit Office revealed that local authorities do not support sport or youth work. Can this law, which excludes homeowners from paying land tax, not happen in the same way by taking away school food money from primary school pupils?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U133	Thank you, good questioner! According to the Supreme Court judgment, liabilities and provisions must be balanced, i.e. if the state imposes obligations or additional obligations on the local government, they must be adequately funded. It can be interpreted differently. During the years of the crisis, the major dispute here in the Riigikogu showed that the coalition interpreted the relationship between commitments and funding in a situation where there was particularly little money, so that the budget of local governments was also reduced to the obligations of youth work and sport financing. Initially, quite a number of local authorities did not save on youth work and sports organisation, or in fact, local governments had to limit everything a little. Most local governments made very painful decisions in many areas. However, youth work and sport were kept on their feet. But you are right, unfortunately, the analysis of the National Audit Office has shown that when the possibility of saving in one area was given, very many local authorities did so. Well, that's a shame. Is school food one area where savings can be made? Once the so-called Crocodile Committee proposed this, fortunately, under public pressure, it was withdrawn and is currently on the agenda of the Government of the Republic to provide school food. I hope that the coalition will be guided by the Government of the Republic's action plan and will not decide otherwise on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U134	Thank you. I ask you to stick to the subject, i.e. reimbursement of school lunch expenses, when asking questions. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U135	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U136	Here you have been very economical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U137	Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U138	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. To a little better understand the need for free school food, I have this question for the waitress. How many children in Estonia are in need of free school meals? Some kind of research has been carried out. I want to know both the number and the percentage of the total number of children.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U139	Thank you. First of all, at the end of the 1990s, when the Riigikogu quite seriously discussed whether free school meals were needed in Estonia and on what grounds, and in 2001 there was an additional debate about the implementation of this debate. For class students, it remained to sound the need for a little relief from the situation of people living in absolute poverty and their children. But it was also a question of social measures so that we would not have such a class difference that some children would eat in the school cafeteria, while others would be in the bar. There were arguments regarding the improvement of food quality and the fall in the price of a single portion. So there are a lot of arguments in the case of school food support or reimbursement of the cost of school food, in addition to the need to alleviate absolute poverty. Why do I want to stress that? Otherwise, we should talk about income support, which should be resolved on the one hand. Why this has been a part of education to date has been the subject of a serious debate, and this time we also dealt with it in the Committee on Culture. I believe that the decision that was made in the past that it was part of the education system was made, on the one hand, because it is easier for us to deal with, we are used to it in the education system. Another serious reason is, as I pointed out in the case of upper secondary school students, that a young person may not eat all day, and quite a number of schools visit the diner on Monday before the start of the school day and take slices of bread with them. This shows that children have been undernourished this weekend. Speaking of absolute poverty, the statistics have been a bit volatile. I've seen two indicators. First, there are about 20% of these children, second, more than one in five children already live in absolute poverty, even one in four. Unfortunately, I don't dare say a percentage to you. As I said, there are many kinds of statistics. It is clear that children living in absolute poverty are estimated at 20%. In addition, we have quite a lot of hidden poverty. The problem with hidden poverty is that apparently the child is fine, is not directly hungry. Pediatricians have paid quite a lot of attention to this problem. Kids eat, but they eat little and no calorie food. They don't get all the nutrients they need. Simply put, the child will not only get all the minerals out of cooked potatoes for a very long time, although the potato will certainly be good and nutritious. Pediatricians have turned their attention to such hidden poverty. The children are fed, but their health records show that they are not getting enough of all the substances. In both cases, guaranteeing school food is certainly essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U140	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U141	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The Ministry of Finance has already issued budget limits to public authorities and ministries. However, the budget is in a tiny deficit. The costs of catering can therefore only be covered by transfers. As former Minister of Education, you know the budget of the Ministry of Education. What would you do to cover these costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U142	Thank you, good questioner! You indicated that I have done the state budget several times. I have to say that, even in a time of extreme economic prosperity, the first limits given to the Ministry were always negative. Therefore, I would not be too worried that these limits will remain so hopeless. We have seen that, even during periods of crisis, the figures in the state budget procedure have finally become slightly more positive, as famous additional forecasts for August are expected. But when we talk about redeployment in the education system, of course you know, and I know that it is very difficult to redeploy four, six or eight million euros in this tense situation. Today, however, we are mainly talking about the hope that the state budget will improve and that the state will prioritise catering for upper secondary school students.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U143	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U144	Thank you. Good waitress! How do you assess the opportunity for school leaders to contribute to improving the quality of food? The Ministry of Social Affairs has established specific rules on the health of food and the weekly menu. How much can a school manager do here so-called quality control? Secondly, how flexibly can catering be organised at school? Today, smaller punks sometimes go to lunch at 10:00 a.m. when they're still full, but when the right time for lunch and the stomachs are empty, the older students eat. To what extent can catering be better organised at school?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U145	Thank you, good questioner! You had two very good questions. One of the proposals we made during the processing of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act (this is still my personal position) is that we should consider introducing a long lunch break in the education system, which is quite common in Europe, also in our northern neighbouring countries. For example, at 12 noon, there is an hour's break during which different groups eat, plus a free hour, a small rest period, etc. This, of course, means taking a child, even a very small child, a longer school day, or a long day. But one of the reasons why it is used quite a lot in the European Union is that a child should not eat in 10 or 15 minutes. Another reason is that in quite many countries where there is perhaps a slightly more favourable climate (though we cannot say this today, we also have very beautiful weather), people go out of school territory at that time, such as in the park playing football and having a picnic. How it is organised in one school or another is quite a matter for the school to decide. But in order to take very long breaks, it is, of course, necessary to change the general arrangement, because it also means extending the school day, etc. The headmaster can now make a lot of decisions in the education system. According to the new basic school and upper secondary school law, the head of school can decide quite a lot on both the content and the organisational side of the education. I have to say that it depends very much on the interests of the headmaster, whether he is interested in the school environment in addition to the education and teacher issues, whether he is interested in what is happening at the school canteen. However, in order not to harm all school leaders, it has to be said that if procurements have been made for one local government or for the whole region, and they have, for example, won one company, where the food with thermostats is delivered to the school and does not care about complaints, and if the director, for some reason, for example, does not have a very good connection with the local government to influence the catering company, it may happen that despite the efforts made by the school, quality will not improve. In general, however, if the school or kindergarten manager has any interest in the matter and has given negative feedback, the quality of food has improved significantly. I think there's a lot of work to be done there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U146	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Where does this one euro come from? Have you analyzed the real food prices in schools? At least as far as I know, it was one of the euro's problems a few years ago, and quite a number of municipalities have paid more for basic school meals today. My question is this: are you not afraid that you will impose another extra burden on the municipalities? If this price is not real, they are already forced to pay the price difference in terms of prestige. Would it not be more appropriate to focus, as your group has said, on improving the local governments' revenue base so that they can provide free school meals to those in need?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U148	There were several aspects to your question. First of all, you also know very well that negotiations between the state and local authorities have almost always focused on asking local authorities not to write down very many lines, or to give money on a targeted basis, but on an overall increase in the budget and the local authorities themselves. Indeed, most municipalities are very responsible and really act with a heart for cultural, educational and social purposes. I have no reason to believe that local governments will not make sure that children are properly and quality catered. However, when we go back to the early 2000's, the catering in schools and the provision of school food were rather uneven. There was no big exception when children did not have much to attend school night classes for several years and developed the popularity of bars, hamburgers and shops across the street. Something has become more positive over the years, however, since children have returned to school night classes. Unfortunately, there are quite a few children who only come to school because of school meals and maybe even get a few hours. The second part of your question was whether one euro is enough. This is definitely better than the 78 cents currently foreseen. But I believe that our endless dispute about the cost of school food depends on what we take into account in statistics. If we take the average cost of school food and if we do not count on it to peel carrots, then lighting, a little water, etc. is likely to be needed, so that if we do not count on any other costs, then this euro can cover more or less the costs. At least there's been feedback from the schools, let's say so and so. If we add additional costs to the local government, i.e. not only the price of raw materials but also the cost of cooking, the salary of the cook or, for example, the agreements with the service company, this euro is not enough. I would like to come to you with a bill that says enough, but the question is that our proposal, given the rise in food prices, has remained at a modest level. We're only talking about food costs, everything else is the responsibility of the local government. I hope that the local governments' revenue base will recover so that they can cover the rest of the costs themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U149	Thank you, good questioner! We didn't use any additional data other than those that the Ministry of Social Affairs has. The Ministry of Social Affairs has developed an indicative menu, as well as an indicative weekly menu, which will be drawn up in cooperation with specialists, including pediatricians, catering professionals and others. This is also the case for the so-called estimated cost of school lunch. This was the basis of our reasoning, given also the rise in food prices. Is that exactly one euro or one euro and a few cents here and there? Rather, it was just one euro that we had a nice amount to draw on. However, the price increase of the estimated food day is currently estimated at around a few dozen percent, which is slightly below the euro. This euro was offered in accordance with it. But as I answered the previous questions, the basis for this reasoning is only the price of food. This is usually complemented by food production costs, perhaps a rental relationship, maybe a procurement, maybe a certain percentage of profits added to the price of food in towns or municipalities. This means that whether the local government pays more, pays the salary of the chef or is otherwise arranged or the parent pays for it. It's been solved quite differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U150	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U151	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Does it not seem to you that the coalition has no substantial will to solve this problem? When people say we don't have enough money, it seems ridiculous. This week's agenda includes draft laws that take some 1.3 billion kroons out of the state budget. Here is the question of choice: should children in our country be full or should income tax be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U152	Thank you, good questioner! As I have already replied to my good colleague, Annely Akkermann, that having been in negotiations on the drafting of the state budget, I must say that this is always a question of choice. All such decisions, including decisions to relocate, and also decisions to reduce, where some percentage is being changed, are always a matter of choice. However, there is a will to resolve this issue. I must say that the members of the coalition represented in the Committee on Culture showed a great deal of willingness to come back to this issue. The position remained (which you can certainly ask the representative of the Committee on Culture) that since 1 January 2012 this change may be difficult, because at that time the crisis may not be over and there is no hope of receiving additional money, but it will hopefully be possible, for example, one year later. Let's hope so!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U153	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. I would like to ask for a presentation by the Committee on Culture in the Chair Lauri Luige!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed draft law No 1 amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in its own s. 2004 at the meeting on 30 May. In addition to the members of the committee, we had invited two guests to the meeting: Mr Kalle Küttis, Deputy Chancellor of General and Vocational Education of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Mr Indrek Kilgi, lawyer at the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research. The following is a concise overview of what took place during the Commission's debate. First, the initiator made a presentation presenting the purpose of the draft, which you have just received a long overview of. In one sentence, the aim is to have a school lunch cost of 1. to 12. There would be one euro up to class. There were four questions for the rapporteur. First, they asked why the draft plan for the cost of a school lunch had to be written into the law if it had not been in the law so far. The initiator of the draft act replied that it was intended to create certainty because the law had a much stronger force than the regulation, and it was also designed to ensure that this amount was not reduced. On this point, the Commission stated that in recent years public funding has increased, on the contrary, to cover school lunch costs in primary school. The second question was whether the initiators have considered a more radical option of financing school meals more widely, as has been the case for half a century in Finland, where the state pays for the entire cost of school lunch. At that, the initiator said that their support for this idea existed, but there are problems with the application, as the organisation of catering throughout Estonia is rather uneven. Thirdly, it was examined whether the basic school and upper secondary school law should be amended, if it seems that covering school lunch costs is more of a social measure. The initiator of the bill replied that since many European countries consider school food to be part of education, we have so far done so too. Fourthly, there was an interest in how school meals are financed in public schools and why public schools are excluded from the draft. We have music high school, Nõo Reaalgymnasium and Noarootsi Gymnasium, for example. Why aren't they involved? On this point, the initiator stated that they should indeed be included here, because the idea of the draft is that all children should still receive support on an equal footing. But right now, there's just no place in the SGS to write it. We need to look together and think about where to put it. But in general, the instigator's mind was positive. The officials of the Ministry stated that, despite difficult economic years, the Government of the Republic managed to increase the estimated cost of school lunch for primary school pupils per student from 10.42 kroons to 12.20 kroons in 2008-2011. At the same time, it was recognised that we are not yet in a position to expand the range of beneficiaries. In addition, an option was proposed to consider making financing more needs-based. The Ministry will develop a version of how to make the financing of school food at upper secondary school more needs-based. This closed the debate in the Committee on Culture, and the Committee on Culture made three consensual decisions. First, to propose that the plenary assembly put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda on 7 June. a today, second, to propose to the Assembly to conclude the first reading, thirdly, to propose that the assembly set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 21 June, at 16 a.m. for the submission of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U155	Thank you very much. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Your heart, as a member of the Committee on Culture, must have jumped with joy when the first draft of its membership came to the Committee on Culture. Perhaps I would have been more delighted if it had really been a pure educational bill. But there is no point in discussing whether it is an education, a food culture or a social issue. This too is likely important for schoolchildren to learn in a delirious way because they need to be full. It's a matter of where the funding should come from. But I think it's more important that the kids get to eat, not where the money comes from. That's it. Did you really congratulate the opposition for pointing out that, in fact, in recent years, despite difficult times, school food support per pupil has increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U157	Thank you. Of course we did. I have always praised the opposition. In addition to Bill No 1, Bill No 2 is also our Commission's draft. So it's a positive start. But I also mentioned that the rapporteur from the Ministry of Education pointed out in his speech that spending on school meals in primary school has increased from 10.42 kroons to 12.20 kroons in the last three years. So this is a positive step in every way. We will try to continue to do so, depending on how prices change.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U158	Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U159	Thank you. Good waitress! I would like to congratulate the coalition for not voting on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U161	Next question, Marika Tuus.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U162	Thank you. I don't know when there's gonna be another reading in this hall. What are you forecasting?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U163	If we look at the practice of the previous term, the basic school and upper secondary school law has usually been dealt with in this Chamber for quite a long time. Let's hope for the best. Right now, I don't know how to predict. We have not put this directly in place in the Commission. But we have to take into account that we are currently debating the state budget for next year. These things must be done in parallel. We'll see.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U164	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U165	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did you also discuss in the Commission how much this extension of the aid for warm food could have an impact on the state budget and whether the amounts of expenditure included in the explanatory memorandum are correct and fair? Or maybe it turns out like the time Mrs Reps was a minister and decided to start giving free, warm food in middle school: the state made a promise, but the municipalities had to cover this promise to a large extent from their budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U167	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U168	Indeed, in the explanatory memorandum all of this is quite thoroughly mentioned, but I noted that the draft itself should also be unambiguous.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U169	The eighth item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I'll introduce you to Bill No 2 of the Amendment to the Pre-School Children's Institution Act. This approach here is quite different, because if we have had a school food debate for more than ten years, then catering in pre-school childcare facilities has clearly been to fund parents and organise local authorities. Why did the Centre Party Group consider it important to discuss the introduction of a partial reimbursement of food costs under the Pre-school Childhood Act? The representatives of Viljandi County had a legitimate question that, if the State only compensates for a certain amount of the agreement, would it put the local authorities under stronger pressure if the parents had the expectation that the rest would guarantee the local governments. This dispute goes on both for school lunch and certainly for kindergarten catering, because the funding between the state and local authorities has always been an issue which the local government must and must not cover. With regard to pre-school institutions, it has been made clear that the local authority must ensure the functioning, organisation and maintenance of pre-school institutions and that it must also ensure that it is provided with food in children's institutions. Paying for a meal is the responsibility of parents and it is quite clear that the cost of a meal is taken into account. Indeed, the cost of a daily meal is day-based and its amount is generally reviewed by the board of trustees. In most kindergartens, if you want to increase the cost, the board will discuss it. The cost of food day is quite different in local governments. There are local authorities where it is larger, there are kindergartens, including private day-care centres, where it is quite large, and there are also such municipalities where this amount is modest. In addition to organising catering in kindergartens, catering, like in schools, is organised in quite different ways. There are a lot of children's establishments where food is prepared by the so-called 'their cook aunt' and there are municipalities where catering is organised through the central kitchen and the food is taken with thermostats to kindergartens. The cost of a meal day has also been calculated quite differently. Some kindergartens also include the costs of the catering company and a small profit margin, in other places only the cost of food is taken into account, and the local government itself covers the wage costs of the cook. EUR 1,5 is the estimated cost. The question already arose as to why the cost of our meal day is higher in kindergartens than in school. Because the kindergarten is eaten several times, sometimes three, sometimes four times, as well as waiting. The Government of the Republic, in its opinion on our draft, pointed out that there are kindergartens in which 1.5 euros is not needed for a child, but the cost of a rations per day is even lower. As I said, it is indeed organised very differently in the municipalities. It may be a rural area where raw materials are delivered at a different price, but it is likely that the local authority will not take into account its overall costs in the cost of food day. However, in most municipalities and in the case of a larger number of children, this cost is higher than EUR 1.5. If we look at the cities, it will be much higher than EUR 1.5. The second question is why we only want to cover the food costs of children aged 5 to 7. When we look at the development plan for the general education system, we see that the direction of our country's education system is that we ensure that all children are properly prepared for school. This is a priority for all of us. Of course, it would be very positive if preparation for school were to begin at an earlier age, but two pre-school years are essential for this. It generally takes place in kindergartens, but it also uses a system of kindergartens and pre-school classes. In this respect, the country is flexible. However, we have placed a responsibility on the level of local authorities to provide a kindergarten place for all children, i.e. the state has given a message that it is important to us that children are able to prepare for school. The years of crisis have shown that the percentage of children who are listed in childcare facilities has not decreased significantly. But when you look at attendance, you can note the tendency that, unfortunately, quite a few children are excluded from kindergarten. The originators do not have any information and, unfortunately, no statistics have been collected on whether it is the correct assessment of the childcare facilities or the opinion that one of the reasons here may be the parents' inability to pay for children's food. This is the case or not, but we, the initiators, have received a signal from the children's institutions that paying for food is too much for many families and therefore children are not taken to kindergarten. The question arises as to whether the local government guarantees free food in kindergarten for children living in absolute or hidden poverty. I have to say, it's quite different. Local authorities generally try to provide free food for children when the family is in a difficult situation and reported and there is a decent connection with the social worker. The problem has become that quite a number of parents prefer to take a child out of kindergarten rather than admitting that there is a serious problem in the family. Therefore, it is also proposed from kindergartens that, just as in school, at least part of the age groups could have evenly and universally guaranteed free food. Another reason why children aged 5 to 7 are mentioned is that when you look at the percentage of attendance, it turns out that children of preschool age are more present. It's understandable because, first of all, they're bigger, their immunity is stronger and they get less sick. Second, fortunately, parents have also started to understand how much kindergarten teaching is going to take place. So now kindergartens are taken quite seriously, they are understood to be educational institutions. Thirdly, I would like to stress that there is one more thing about the financial relationship between the pre-school institution and the parents: the so-called 'place fee'. Place fees vary greatly in local governments. According to § 27 of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, the share of the parents per child may not exceed 20% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic. When you start looking at the situation in local governments, there are municipalities where the role of parents has either not been implemented at all or is very, very small. Speaking nostalgically in crowns, there are places where the parents' share is only a fewteen kroons. Unfortunately, there are also municipalities such as the municipality of Viimsi, which has implemented the promised rate of EEK 870 or EUR 56 or Harku municipality, where it is EEK 652 or EUR 41.7 or the municipality of Rae and the city of Keila, where it is EEK 435 or EUR 27,8. In the case of municipalities with such a high place rate, there is a very high hope that they will create a chance for more socially insecure families not to pay the place fee so that children up to seven years of age can be prepared for school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U171	Thank you very much. Please, Andrus Island, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U172	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The purpose of the draft is certainly noble and good. The only sad thing is that there's been this sort of work-related accident in the form of a bill. You have mentioned an article that does not exist in law, etc. But that's it. I'm trying to understand the contents. I'm sure it'll work out between two readings of this formal side. In terms of content, it was unclear whether the compensation for food costs of EUR 1,5 was a day, a week or a year. But as you pointed out in your explanation, this is the cost of a meal day. It'd be good if it got into the bill. But my question: would it still not be much more reasonable for more than EUR 13 million to be granted direct payments to families in need rather than to apply the non-disclosure support you are offering?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U173	Thank you, good questioner! The fact that we added paragraph 2 to § 27 or created a new paragraph is perfectly possible and understandable in lawmaking. The general section discusses how funding generally works, that it is guaranteed by local governments and parents. We brought here a certain number of children, i.e. five to seven-year-olds, just an additional benefit to the state. But I'm sure every bill can be improved and refined. That is the task of the Committee on Culture for the coming weeks or months, to see what we can do in pre-school childcare facilities for children of at least this age. Now, out of support. We are now going to the debate that has been going on for years in the case of school food: which is more useful, whether it is equal compensation for all or for a certain target group. As a initiator, I support a level playing field of support, for two reasons. Firstly, as I have already said, there is a great deal of hidden poverty. I'm referring to individual childcare facilities. My three children all go to different childcare facilities. I have also discussed, for example, the number of parents who are unable to pay this one euro and the number of children who have to stand by. This average is variable, 10 to 20%. Perhaps about one in ten parents is the one who also struggles to pay the group allowance. Whether their children are missing because of illness or if they run out of book money half a month, and the child is therefore taken away from kindergarten, I really don't appreciate it. Children's institutions themselves fear that there may also be a financial reason. Why do they not address the local government, which is quite possible in Tallinn, for example, and is possible in most cities? I owe you an answer. Is there a cause for shame, and that's why they don't want to turn, I don't know. But this system exists, they can make a motion for both the place fee and the catering day. Most local governments have clearly met people here. The other side is that when we talk about conservative or liberal worldview, the people who pay more taxes should get something more back from the country. I believe that those parents who have paid more taxes could, at least in the case of pre-school institutions, receive a little more compensation from the state. This is such a second approach, which has also been in dispute, whether, for example, obtaining free soup or steak at school is justified or not. From both points of view, I am in favour of a uniform diet.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U174	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U175	Thank you. Good waitress! I think this is a very noble bill, but if you start to compensate (I understand that you have deliberately tried to reimburse food costs for children aged 5 to 7, i.e. at the time of preparation for school), then I believe that all children should be treated equally. Why is a four-year-old child worse? Do you have any estimates of how much it would cost if we included younger kindergarten children?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U176	Thank you, good questioner! As I said, there are a number of arguments as to why food costs should be reimbursed to those aged 5 to 7 years of age. One thing is certainly a financial argument, and you just have to start somewhere. Another and very clear argument is preparation for school. Additional measures or bonuses must be put in place so that children can get under our eyes before school, so that we find them a little sooner, not until they get to school. Catering is one of the most attractive things for certain parents, with whom, politely speaking, there are problems to put children in kindergarten for school preparation. Are the children equal or not equal? There is one serious problem with this statistics, which I understand very clearly as an initiator. For children between three and four years of age or younger, especially when we are talking about cuckoos, it is not possible to multiply the cost of a daily meal by the number of children, because the percentage of attendance is extremely different. Statistics are collected differently in municipalities, but in Tallinn, for example, where I am familiar with these data, the two-year-olds are present for about a third of the days. A legitimate question arises as to whether, in that case, the State should pay all the days. If no 100% of children are present at pre-school age, then at least in Tallinn, I can tell you, there are 90% present for the 6 to 7-year-olds. But as I said, in the case of two-year-olds, this percentage is quite low. In vocational schools with internships, this problem has been solved so that most vocational schools have distributed these amounts. When young people are in practice, that's what they get for the rest of the period. In the case of children's institutions, we should arrange this system differently, whether to give the local governments this amount on the basis of the year or to come up with another model.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U177	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Lukas for a question, I would point out, just in case, that there are five minutes until the end of today's sitting. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Your basically fiscal statement was very exciting. If, so far, you have considered it more important to get more money from people paying more taxes to the Treasury, then the statement that they could get something more for it is interesting and worth discussing. But not directly, I didn't want to talk about it. I wanted to mention that the introduction of kindergartens may slightly dilute the state budget's chances of increasing the amount of school food in primary school. It doesn't have to be like this, but I think it does. As you are a practitioner in kindergartens, I say that actually many parents formalize their children for example...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U179	Please ask a question, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U180	... kindergarten so he doesn't eat breakfast there. If everyone gets paid, doesn't that mean a certain amount of waste?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U181	Good manager! I'll try to answer shorter. Good former minister! Speaking of recognition, I must say that I almost forgot that, indeed, both in the Committee on Culture and in the pulp, we have recognised on several occasions that, firstly, we have preserved free school food in primary school (this was certainly quite difficult to achieve given the decisions of the Crocodile Committee), secondly, that, despite the decrease in the number of children and the temptation to withdraw money from this area, it has not been done. As far as catering in kindergarten is concerned, you touched on the very right subject, which I have pointed out here. Today, in cooperation with parents, kindergartens have set up the system quite well so that the meal day fee is not taken into account in the days when the child is ill and the parent announces it. As initiators, we believe that there should be more flexibility in looking at compensation for local governments and kindergartens. For example, if a child does not show up for a few days and is notified, then a more supportive meal could be offered during the rest of the days, or the amount could be given on an ad hoc basis for younger children. As far as the tax debate is concerned, you may not have understood that the very clear position of the Centre Party Group and the Centre Party is that we really want to collect more taxes, but also give more back. Perhaps the goal of a thicker country is to give more back, i.e. in education, culture, sport and social affairs, the country can provide more and more meaningfully. That's the content of the tax bat.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U182	Thank you, good waitress. My attention was friendly and did not relate to the length of the previous answers. The length of the response can be freely chosen by the waitress. Please, Andrus Island, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U183	Thank you. I'll try to be quick. I'll go on with the other half of my question. You pointed out, for example, that the difficult economic situation has forced parents to take their children out of childcare. I am simply concerned that this EUR 1.5 will not help them either. You have pointed out that a quarter or a fifth are those who really need help. Maybe they need more than a euro and a half. However, my question is this: Is it more meaningful to support words or to support specific personalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U184	Thank you. Given that I have one minute, I'll say we're sticking to different points of view here. I still believe that the general system in childcare facilities, as well as in schools (this has been proven over the years), works better, but it does not exclude direct action for these families. As I said, most local governments provide support for those who are particularly in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-07_U185	Thank you. The item will remain under discussion and will continue at its meeting tomorrow, 8 June. Thank you very much to the waitress and have a beautiful day. Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
