ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-14_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Good fellows! We will begin the second Thursday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-14_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 12 colleagues, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The inquiry concerns Estonia's participation in the European Financial Stability Fund. We wonder what our contribution will be. Could it grow bigger if there are more countries in need of help in Europe? Since the situation in Greece, Ireland and Portugal did not come as a surprise, but as a problem of sustainability could long be foreseen, did the Government of the Republic of Estonia carry out risk analyses before deciding to join the euro area? Were we prepared to have countries waiting for us there that may need our help in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-14_U3	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-14_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I hand over the draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act. The development of the proposal was due to the need to reduce the number of children living in poverty, to support the full development of all children and to contribute to increasing confidence in families with children. In our current family policy, the only measure of genuine certainty is parental benefit. What, though, if the child has reached the age of one and a half? After all, the needs of a child do not end when they are young. Studies show that as a child grows, spending increases and poverty increases in families with children, with a growing sense of insecurity and deprivation. By 2018, we will be in a situation where there will be twice as many young people on the labour market as we do now. We've got a bad story about population regeneration. An average of 1.63 children are born to the family. To remain at the current level, at least one fifth more children should be born each year. Parents need confidence that every child in Estonia is welcome and that they can raise their children and give them a good education, even in bad times. Unfortunately, they don't have that confidence right now. In order to ensure that the reduction in the birth rate is not drastic, one measure can no longer be relied upon. The first solution is to triple the child benefit, which is why we want to give the procedure the draft law amending § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-14_U5	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's go to the messages. The members of the Riigikogu have formed a civil society support group, an ambassador group in Pärnumaa and an ambassador group in Vana Võromaa. Good luck to them! Today, after the plenary session has ended, meetings will be held in this Chamber to establish the Estonian-Canada, Estonian-Macedonia, Estonian-Portugal and Estonian-Belarusian parliamentary group. We're looking forward to active participation. There will also be a meeting today after the end of the sitting in this Chamber to set up an association of representatives of minorities. Good luck to them too! We're gonna do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. Good fellows! There are no items on the agenda today. I wish you the strength to work in committees. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 10.05 a.m.
