ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Dear colleagues, we will begin the ninth Thursday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U2	Good morning, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the two political groups, the Reform Party and the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I am submitting a draft to the procedure called the 'Law amending the Business Code and related other laws'. This is a bill that didn't become a law yesterday, but I hope in the autumn it will be with your help. Summer is long, people can train, achieve a better physical form and participate in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U3	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. An inquiry concerns the price of electricity. We know that yesterday the chairman of Elering's board, Taavi Veskimägi, predicted a very large increase in electricity prices in the near future. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has spoken of 15%, and the esteemed Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, has spoken about the need to heat houses. It's actually very right, you really need to improve the insulation of the houses. But the Minister has not told us what the price of electricity will be in the near future. No one really knows that, of course, but the Minister for Economic Affairs should still have a position on something as important as the price of electricity. We ask him what the forecast for the price of electricity in Estonia is for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U5	Inara Luigas speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 12 members of the Central Party Group will report an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The question is about the impact of the completion of the Koidula railway border station on local passenger train traffic. The s. On June 11, the Koidula railway border station, which has been one of the largest construction projects in Estonia, is particularly important in this region. Due to the completion of the railway section of the Koidula railway station and its surroundings, the railway triangle of south-eastern Estonia has also been connected after a few decades and all the possibilities for developing both freight and passenger train traffic in south-eastern Estonia have been created. Economically, the Koidula railway border station is important for freight transport, and local people hoped that as a result, they would also be able to get a proper passenger train connection in the Tartu-Koidula-Valga railway triangle. The new platform could receive passengers in Koidula already this summer, but unfortunately this hope will not be fulfilled this year, as South Western Railway wants to receive some EUR 58000 more for the extension of the route from Oraval to Koidulan. The Head of the Road and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has said that this support cannot be granted in the state budget. We have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U7	Rannar Vassilyev, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats have one bill to hand over. We've considered it for a long time. There was a serious debate about whether to call it 'A law amending the Income Tax Act for the redemption of injustices and justice for local governments'. However, after a long debate, we remained conservatively in the law on the modest amendment of the Income Tax Act. The content of the draft is that the revenue base before cuts will be restored within two years after the law enters into force. Income tax is meant for local governments in 2012 and 2013, when this could happen. In addition, I note that the initiators also provide for the restoration of the equalisation fund in the same proportion. This initiative certainly does not include any theoretical compensation for the exemption from the housing tax, which the Government of the Republic is allegedly preparing for the autumn. This compensation should be added to what we are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U9	Thank you! There's no more calls. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and two questions; the Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's move on to the messages. Good fellows! Today, following the end of the plenary session, the Finno-Ugric Support Group will be set up in this Chamber. We're looking forward to active participation! Now, let's go through the presence check. 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U10	Let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts owners from land tax, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U11	Dear Members, In the War of Independence, Estonian peasants went to defend freedom and become masters of the country. The young Republic of Estonia carried out a major land reform. In 1992 President Lennart Meri said to the Estonian people: "You were servants and you will be masters! ' And as a result of the residential, property and land reform of the restored Estonian state, by the beginning of the 21st century, nearly 90% of the people became owners of their home. This is one of the largest indicators of the share of homeowners in Europe and imposes an additional obligation on the country to support homeowners. Who these people are and what the condition of Estonian housing is, an analysis of the 10-page explanatory memorandum to the draft second reading provides a fairly comprehensive overview of this. This law has a practical economic impact by reducing the compulsory housing costs of homeowners by up to EUR 17 million per year. The law also has a moral dimension that some have mocked the possibility of. If a bottle of vodka costs more than a bottle of milk, this is the moral attitude of the tax law, just as the church and home are exempt from tax. The moral aspect of this law is that the burden of having a home, a property tax, must not lead to a forced choice of ownership. The law that allows it and provides for such practical possibilities is both morally flawed and questionable from a constitutional point of view, as the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out. This law has been attacked by several arguments. First, the alleged reduction of the financial resources of local authorities under the law. I am fully committed to confirming that there is no danger, because, on the basis of a proposal from the initiators of the draft, Parliament will enforce a system of permanent financial cover, which will be implemented by means of this law, in advance. I consider it the most appropriate solution to increase the percentage of personal income tax in favour of municipalities, by the amount of income lost under the law. Secondly, there has been an accusation that the law has been done in favour of the rich and that the ordinary citizen will not win. I have to admit that, during my Member's mandate, I have never been approached with so many people bound by any law, I have in my hands the thoughts of almost 500 people, and, you know, there are no millionaires in my understanding. But pensioners, teachers, family mothers. One elderly person writes: "My land tax on residential land is EUR 448; it is beyond my reach. " And he sadly states: " There is simply my extinction from Tallinn, from hometown, from my own home. ' And the second letter: 'I am the owner of a small Estonian tree house in Tallinn, I have inherited this house. Right now, I pay 8,000 kroons a year and I'm unemployed. But I love the house, it's been fixed by people I love, and this is where I've spent my childhood. ' And the same person responds to journalists and politicians who have called land tax payers über-rich: 'It is very hurtful that such as me are called Ober-rich. For the Estonian, his home, which his parents have built, is of great importance. It's a place of security and security. If you take it away, if you scare people with it all the time, it'll make our people weak. " A boogeyman writes: " It is an extremely offensive attitude, as if having a house was a privilege for the rich. Home is a lifelong creation that swallows every cent. " At the end of the letter, he sadly states, judging his land tax: " But sooner or later, it is necessary to sell because the pension is not enough. " The woman from the Merivälja writes: " My parents got a plot and built a house with their own hands on it. Getting the apartment was hopeless. We're not dealing with buržu. On the seafield, the earth is clayy and with large stones, for decades we will try to repair it. " It is not just the people of Tallinn. One mother in Pärnumaa states: "My husband and I are both disabled people and paid for both our home and the country that owns the house. Such a tax is unfair to people who have decided to build and fix something. ' End of quote. The Association of Housing Associations has published its support for this law, which has conducted a dedicated survey among its 1,400 members. In its statement of support, the Taxpayers' Association stresses that in today's Estonia, the land at home is neither a luxury commodity nor an indicator of prosperity. Support has also been given by the Central Association of Owners, who handed over to Ene Ergma this morning 7 865 people's signatures in support of this draft and on behalf of its council, expresses its gratitude to Parliament for handling this bill. Both the Finnish Houseowners' Association and the International Real Estate Owners' Association have welcomed this step. The statement of support from the Estonian Alliance of Children's Rich Families is particularly touching, which states: 'Estonia has nearly 12000 families with three or more children, for whom it is important to abolish land tax on homes. " I would like to remind you that about half of families with children live in a farmhouse or a family home. The positive impact of this law has already occurred before its entry into force. Tallinn, who still voted down the IRL proposal to lose land tax from homes in the city council in autumn, is doing so. I have no doubt that, in rejecting the draft we are debating today, this decision will be abandoned as quickly as possible. Before the elections, the IRL made a promise to free homes from land tax, and we will keep our word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U12	Thank you! I ask the representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group Valdo Randpere for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, In the run-up to the 2009 local elections, one of the promises of the Reform Party in Tallinn was that we would lose land tax on the land under the land. I went with the sign 'I don't like land tax! " to share people and place them on plots. I didn't do it in Nõmme or Pirita, which is basically discussed here. I did it in the Veerenn region in May, I did it in Kadriorg. The people's view of this idea was the same everywhere. I dare say that 100% of the people supported this idea. And I do not believe that the attitude to this issue elsewhere is significantly different from that of the Tallinians. This is because there is less land tax paid elsewhere and this causes less direct existential problems, but the land tax for the land under the land is not loved anywhere in Estonia. Losing the tax on the land under home is a right and fair idea. In recent weeks, both in this Chamber and in the media, we have been able to listen to the opposition's various arguments against this bill. A number of problems have been identified, from the title of the draft to the change of title during the procedure. We have painted pictures of how all of Estonia will collapse as a result of the abolition of this tax. I have been accused of Tallinn-centredness and have been praised for my ability to calculate. Two things, however, have been forgotten by the opposition in a big fight. Firstly, this tax change will not harm anyone, it will benefit homeowners, it will be tax-neutral for local authorities to whom the State will compensate through this budget. It is also tax neutral for the country itself, which compensates itself with economic growth. The current coalition has promised to reduce the tax burden and this measure is one step in this direction. Taxes are not an end in themselves for this coalition, but what matters to us is what the state and governments spend taxpayers' money on. People don't expect us to have expensive propaganda projects and rotting potatoes in the central squares of cities. We are expected to create favourable conditions for entrepreneurship in Estonia. Entrepreneurship is the source of income for the state and its taxpayers. Money doesn't just happen in Stenbock's basements, and it doesn't come here with suitcases from Russia. Money comes from business. Outside this hall, I have never met any economic experts who would have claimed that high taxes contribute to economic growth. The recent decision of the city of Tallinn to raise the land tax by 66% since 2012 is certainly not good for business here. The signal sent by these methods is that entrepreneurs, get out of this town. We are not going to dismantle all of Estonia's business with tax increases, and that is why the coalition's goal is to reduce the tax burden. Finally. In recent weeks, the opposition has found a new authority in the form of Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and quoted him in various relationships and placed him in the ranks of the opponents of the tax change. I can tell you what Jürgen really thinks about this tax change. He has been opposed to some technical nuances about this, but when I told Jürgen how I went to put up signs before the 2009 elections with the text 'I don't love land tax! ', then Jürgen told me very simply: you would have been a fool if you had put up a sign 'I love land tax! '. That's what Jürgen really thinks about it, and feel touched by the ones who have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U14	Thank you! I would like to ask Rannar Vassilyev, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U15	Good ambassadors! I have to admit that this is the worst draft and the worst draft process that has taken place here in the course of my current practice in the Riigikogu. There is not much of this practice and, therefore, the reference base is quite small, but I very much hope that in four years' time, when this membership is finished, I will continue to think the same way, in other words, that we will no longer have to deal with equivalent drafts. In this draft, surprisingly many of the principles that a very large number of coalition parties' politicians very often like to declare have been ignored. I will not talk at length about the principles of the spelling of the Estonian language, but about parliamentary democracy. Today, we have indeed passed a process in which the members of the Riigikogu have not had the opportunity to express their opinion on this draft in any other form than to say yes or no. In other words, it has not been possible to fix anything. The general nature of the laws is also a principle that could apply in Estonia, but now we are dealing with another local government problem. This is a large local government, and what to deny here is that the Social Democrats also understand very well that some people really have problems with a large land tax in Tallinn. But is it really necessary, therefore, to reform the system in force throughout Estonia? Perhaps we could try to resolve the matter more rationally. Now the autonomy of local governments. We all like to say here that local authorities must be able to make their own decisions, make their own decisions. With this bill, they were deprived of their last chance to shape their income base in any way. Similarly, there has been talk of regional imbalances. It may be that this compensation, which we have talked about most in this board, is perhaps a possible increase in the share of income tax that favours the municipalities that are already able to cope with themselves and worsens the situation of those municipalities that have developed less slowly than others over the past ten years. Therefore, it is in no way conducive to our regional balance. Similarly, in the preparation of the draft, it has been loved to talk about inclusion, which is also needed in the development of compensatory mechanisms. For those who are actually most affected by the sum of amounts, that is to say, our municipalities have not even been explained how everything is intended to be compensated. Nor have they discussed the initiation of the entire draft or the conduct of the process. In addition to all this, the very long-sighted approach to the draft is surprising. We have examples in recent history of how the same coalition has been able to make tax changes very quickly. In a week and a half, for example, VAT was raised. Today's drafts, which concern the years 2013 and 2015, seem a little surprising in this light. Are there really internal tensions in the coalition, or is it assumed that the improvement of the economic environment, as foreseen by our budgetary strategies and economic forecasts, is not so rosy, or is there at least certain risks to it? All of this is well characterized by our flexibility in principles and slogans. While the Reform Party is talking about the breadth of the tax base, which is very important, and why there must be no raising of the limit on the tax-free minimum, this does not seem to be a problem with this draft. After all, the number of people who pay the tax is greatly reduced. And IRL, who is talking about reducing home expenses, does not share the same view, for example, with regard to domestic VAT and electricity excise duties. It seems to us Social Democrats in this process that public opinion and the media are overcoming the slogan of such a problem, and we are very pleased about that. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U16	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U17	As far as the coalition ambassadors are concerned, many of you have said to me in the hallway that you do not really understand why there is such a rush and why this bill must be dealt with in such a completely immature form. Some do not understand why it is needed. And now quite sincerely and without any irony: frankly, as opposition politicians, we are quite sorry for you. I believe that there are people in this room who think that way, other than those who have spoken to me in the hallway, others. Today, we can express our opinion with a calm conscience, voting as we feel about things, but you will probably have to press the green button either way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U18	Thank you! Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, then, the final vote on the bill entitled 'Homeowners of Land Tax Exemption Act Amendment Act' is the kind of draft that never reached the first reading under such a title. And this is familiar to us, once again, the aim is to adopt a law in which the opposition has not been able to propose amendments. Once again, there is a road roll policy that does not coincide with an honest political arrangement. Members of the Riigikogu with a longer memory will remember what such a coercion of law can bring not only to all parties affected by the law, but also to the relationship between the opposition and the coalition of the Riigikogu. Rolling over the opposition by breaking the rules will inevitably result in the effects that you saw during the last three days of the sitting, which was reflected in our speeches, and we also experienced this when yesterday the motion to interrupt the second reading of the draft 51 was voted off. It could have been all gone! It could have been gone if the bill hadn't been a failure and complied with the rules. The next legislative amendment under discussion will reduce income tax, which in principle also seems wrong to us. But this bill has been properly drafted and properly processed and its treatment in the Riigikogu has been much more reasonable than pushing the frying advice through the rules. The initiators of the draft act justified the necessity of this law by the fact that they have received several letters which welcome the abolition of the land tax. It's written for us too. I'll introduce you to three letters. The first letter is from the home owner in Tartu, who complains that the Land Tax Act amending the Land Tax Act, which exempts homeowners from land tax, is already a fraud from the title. He read the bill and learned that the title, which allows absolute land tax exemption, does not apply to him because his house is located in a plot the size of 2400 m2 in Tartu. The title allows him, as landowner and landlord, an absolute tax exemption, and he asks that if the title is already a fraud, what more do you expect from the content? The second letter is from the 67-year-old lady who lives in an apartment in 1 room on Tina Street in the centre of Tallinn. He writes that he heard and rejoiced about being allowed to reduce home expenses because home expenses are really high. But he will not be affected by the land tax exemption, because in his home town, pensioners have long been exempt from that tax. However, he is terrified by the fact that the electricity price is rising further, and he is burdened with huge indoor warms, since in winter nothing will remain for food and medicine after they have been paid. And he asks that maybe some laws can be passed here in the Riigikogu, which will also help ordinary people. The third letter is from all Estonian municipalities. This is a joint declaration by the Estonian Association of Cities and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, which says about this draft that the local government associations are actually seeking to restore the income base of local governments to the level prior to the extraordinary reduction of the personal income tax share and the equalisation fund. As regards the draft law amending the Land Tax Act, they consider that it is necessary to provide for an increase in other tax revenues in the same financial amount or to compensate for the reduction of the revenue base when planning decisions to reduce state taxes on local government budgets, including income from land tax and local taxes. To sum up the three letters: this law is populist from the beginning of the title. This law does not help many people in difficulty at home costs and puts new pressure on local governments. It is because of the lack of a compensation mechanism that we appeal to the President of the Republic not to declare this law. Two years ago, when the previous cut in the municipal income base was pushed through with one vote in this very Chamber of Riigikogu, the President promised that he would not allow such behaviour for the second time and that he would not allow such a law to pass. Now he has a chance to show it in action. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U20	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U21	We appeal to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, as well as to the Supreme Court ruling, which states that the legislator has a wide margin of discretion in shaping the country's economic and tax policy, but this does not mean that the legislator is completely free to decide to what extent to allow the financing of local tasks by referring to certain economic and fiscal arguments. Otherwise, the legislator could make the local government as a constitutional institution empty. As indicated, the municipalities must be guaranteed at least the minimum necessary to carry out their local tasks, otherwise § 154 (1) of the Constitution has been infringed. I can see from your happy faces that you are very skeptical about what I am saying, and you think that the President who is now in Kadriorg cannot, after all, return the IRL to the Riigikogu in two months' time he will depend on your vote. I understand it's difficult for him to show the backbone, but it's actually more honest to come to the towns and municipalities than to depend on the backroom agreements. This would certainly help to obtain the vote of support from the electoral body. However, I would like to express my heart to the voters in this Chamber that, compared to the next draft tax reduction to be discussed, this has been a failure since the beginning of the draft law. This has deprived the opposition of the opportunity to propose amendments. Is it really worth influencing the established traditional coalition-opposition relationship with too much force and making it worse just so that some politicians can put flags on garden posts through Nõmme and Pirita via the NPO supported by Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts? This draft could be dealt with correctly and could also ensure that the revenue base that is lost to municipalities is compensated. Without it, we do not believe that this law is compatible with the Constitution, and we will vote against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U22	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We have reached the threshold of the 51 final vote on the draft law; we will begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows, I'm gonna put Bill 51 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 39 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. Draft Act 51 amending the Land Tax Act on land tax relief initiated by the Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U23	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations and request a speech chair from the representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group, Inara Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that, like the law exempting homeowners from land tax, this law amending the Income Tax Act bears signs of haste. The draft is strange in that there are certain points on which the Centre Party would be happy to press the green button when voting, but there are also points that cannot be accepted in any way. On certain points, we believe that the draft can be supported. These points concern cutting rights and the special treatment of the proceeds of the disposal of harvested timber, and we also agree with those which exclude the treatment of level-of-work training as a special advantage. However, we are still opposed to a reduction in the income tax rate from 21% to 20% in 2015. In four years' time, we will not know what the Estonian economy will be like, whether in four years' time, the Estonian country will have a new economic boom, or we will be in a new recession. The tax rates, however, are completely opposite and due to the situation. Even with very favourable forecasts, we cannot say with certainty that a reduction in the income tax rate from 2015 is a reasonable step. In our opinion, this kind of playing with tax rates is completely aimless and premature. We also think that 70 million euros, which will be lost to the state, is a very large amount of money to give up its contribution to the public services of the Estonian state. We understand very well that even now more money is required from education and social work, the quality of health services wants to be improved, etc. We do not know what a reduction in the rate of income tax will entail, whether we are really moving towards paid public services, or whether, once tax rates have been lowered, we are faced with a very rapid and very vigorous recovery and an increase in indirect taxes. However, if the Government of the Republic wishes to give gifts to the recipients, then the Central Party Group has put forward a very sensible proposal to improve the draft. We proposed not to reduce the tax rate, but to increase the tax-free minimum. We are therefore relying on the International Monetary Committee's proposal to improve its income tax system in this way. Nor do we agree with the draft points on reducing tax refunds, as from next year this would affect a very large number of families, many families may find themselves in difficulties. As I said before: we believe that these objectives are untargeted, and the whole draft bears signs of haste. The Centre Party Group does not support this bill; we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U25	Thank you! Please ask Aivar Sõerdi, representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The country's economic and tax environment should motivate it to earn more income, pay more taxes, consume services, etc. Between 2004 and 2010, income tax fell from 26% to 21% in the run-up to the Reform Party. It is the average worker who has won the most from 26% to 21%, and he will also win the 20% tax reduction. Each worker has gained more decision-making power to choose what to spend his own money on. According to OECD studies, income tax is one of the biggest economic influences. Estonia's success has been achieved by our simple and understandable tax system, which motivates working and earning income. According to the Reform Party, social needs need to be financed from collected taxes rather than from non-taxation, so the interest on housing loans, training costs and donations can continue to be deducted from the taxable amount less, i.e. a total of EUR 1920 per year, but still can. For years, the issue of how employers' costs for training workers should be taxed has also been at issue. There is a need to invest in workers, but it is not in the general interest to give them the possibility to withdraw tax-free money from the company, including to pay it free of tax to employees. The current amendment excludes vocational training from being treated as a special advantage. The aim of the amendment is to reduce the tax burden by lowering labour taxes in order to encourage the creation of jobs with high productivity and create the prerequisite for an increase in the number of participants in lifelong learning. Yesterday, the Centre Party Group did not want to recall the way in which we reduced income tax in the 2005-2007 period when you were in the government. The income tax rate decreased from 24% in 2005 to 22% in 2007. I brought along an extract from the country's budget strategy approved by the government on 26 May 2006 for the years 2006 to 2009. You can see clearly what we wrote with you at the time. As regards taxes, income from taxation is partly refocused on the taxation of natural resources. The tax reduction over the next four years will reduce the tax burden on both corporate and private income. Labour is subject to relatively high taxation in Estonia. Too high taxation hampers the motivation of work, so the government intends to reduce the taxation of labour in order to revive the economy. The desire to give a positive impetus to the development of the labour market and to move forward towards the common objectives of the European Union is behind the reduction of the labour burden. Growth will contribute to this. The revenue of the State will also increase in the event of a reduction in income tax. This is what we wrote into the budget strategy with you more than five years ago. The progressive income tax was not even a matter of discussion. Estonia has certainly had a positive impact on a simple and uniform tax system, which will improve with these changes. The draft law also makes the taxation of forest owners fairer by motivating forest owners to manage the forest is also an incentive to amend the Income Tax Act. To sum it up. Improving the tax system leaves more money to the working person and leaves him free to decide how to use it. It is a tax system that does not impose excessive burdens on entrepreneurs, allows for the creation of new jobs and gives people better opportunities to use their creativity. This undoubtedly contributes to economic growth throughout the country. In turn, economic growth will lead to additional tax receipts, which will provide an opportunity to increase pensions and family benefits. Life is progressing for all of us! In the opinion of the Reform Party, this is a good bill and we are asking for it to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U27	Thank you! Please ask Toomas Tõniste, representative of the Parliament's Speaking Chair of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group supports the adoption of this draft. I would specifically highlight making taxation more flexible in the case of the disposal of timber through the provision of a consolidated three-year tax period, which was also promised by the IRL in its electoral programme. The exemption from the special incentive fee for level training is also clear promises in our electoral programme, and we fully support the entry into force of this promise in the form of a law. And third, lowering labour taxes. A reduction in the income tax rate from 2015 will certainly have a stimulating effect on the economy. I believe that no one is arguing that the money involved in reducing domestic tax goes into internal consumption and that, in turn, additional tax revenue comes from indirect taxes. For those who talk about an infinitely thin country and bring comparisons with the Nordic countries, I would like to say that, in a situation where we have already left one lap at the start, we must work hard first and exert our senses, not jogging at the same pace as others. To sum it up. With this draft, we give a clear and positive forward-looking message to all those who have created jobs in Estonia or are planning to create them, they are people around us or foreign investors. This message is that we are not going to suffocate anyone's entrepreneurial spirit with an ever-increasing tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U29	Thank you! I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Before I go to the bill, I have a few comments on the speeches that have been made. The fact that the progressive income tax is, of course, the devil in quotation marks did not interfere with the voting of the 54 pagans for the progressive land tax. But all right. On this draft, I have the following to say. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the power union, I will tell you a small secret: there are people in Estonia whose income is very low. There are even people in Estonia who do not have income, and they will not win anything from this 2015 amendment. They're certain losers. I'm afraid even those who earn average wages and those who earn above averages will eventually lose. 70 million euros is quite a lot of money. This is, for example, money for almost doubling children's benefits or money for a three-year day care programme. And where you're going to need that $70 million, you'll see it here in a couple of months. You will see that the money is missing, and it will also be missing in 2015. That is the main reason why our group is voting against this draft. The second issue I want to talk about is more optimistic. In 1999 the Government of the Republic submitted the Income Tax Act to the Riigikogu and engaged in a very unusual activity in this debate about the government. You know that the government in general is trying to make decisions so that consensus can be reached. At the time, it was agreed that voting would take place, and as a result of voting, 10 votes were in favour and 5 against the principles of the Income Tax Act were submitted to the Riigikogu. These five voters, including me, protested against the proposed draft. Because this led to the principle that employers do not have the same incentive to invest in their employees as they do otherwise. Now for 11 years, there has been an improvement of the same section. We have offered it once in ten, and later the idea of level training has come out of the special preferential tax into the electoral promises of other parties. I welcome the common sense that takes and borrows the good ideas of colleagues, if it thinks they are right, but the wording that we are voting on here today must, in my opinion, go on probation. And then life will show whether the redeployment of words and the years of debates that I have had to hold with the Minister of Finance at work today in ten years have produced results. I guess that's the way to find out which one's right. I think that this new wording is a short step forward, but at least in a reasonable direction. So once again, believe me, not all people will win a tax reduction. There is no reason to say that. And secondly, this beautiful political lecture on the low tax burden of rhetoric and economic development, for some reason, does not tend to apply in real life. Remember that one time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U31	Thank you! I'm closing the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the 40 final votes on the draft. I will put a bill of 40 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 39 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The Bill of Amendment 40 to the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U32	We will go to the third item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related laws and investment funds law. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 45 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 45 Act amending the Law on paying agencies and e-money institutions and related laws and the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U33	We are going to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the cross-Community involvement of workers initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 48 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 86 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 48 amending the Law on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U34	We will go to the fifth item, which is the third reading of the Act No 6 amending the Law on Vocational Training Institution, the Private School Act and the Law on Applied Higher Education, initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I shall put Bill 6 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. The result of 49 members of the Riigikogu, against 36 members of the Riigikogu and 1 impartially has been adopted as the Act No 6 amending the Law on the Law of the Vocational Training Institution, the Private School Act and the Law on the Law on the University of Applied Sciences, initiated by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U35	We are going to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and in connection with the amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There doesn't seem to be any requests. No negotiations will be opened. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 43 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 43 law on the amendment of the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. We have also finished addressing the sixth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U36	We have reached the seventh item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety, the Law on State Fees and the Port Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let's start preparing for the final vote. I will put draft 25 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one is against or impartial. Bill 25 of the Law amending the Law on Safety at Sea, the State Fees Act and the Port Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The seventh item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U37	We will go to the eighth item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Rail Law, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 27 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 27 amending the Rail Law initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The eighth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U38	We are going to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. All the representatives of the political groups who wish to open negotiations have this opportunity. There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 55 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one is against or impartial. Draft 55 Act amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U39	We go to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put the 56th draft to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 56 amending the Law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The 10th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U40	We are going to the 11th item, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 57 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 57 amending the Law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law. The 11th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U41	We have come to the 12th item, which is an overview of the uniform application of judicial order, justice and law. Good fellows! Before we begin to deal with this item, let me briefly present the procedure. First a presentation by the President of the Supreme Court for up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. After that, there are negotiations during which representatives of the political groups may take the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. It is my great honour and pleasure to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Supreme Court Märt Rask!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! § 27 (3) of the Courts Act gives the President of the Supreme Court the opportunity to present a report to the Riigikogu once a year on the organisation of the court, the administration of justice and the uniform application of the laws. Today's presentation offers a selection of topics and issues that need to be discussed and decided in cooperation with the legislator and the executive. Last year's presentation focused on the issue of penal law, this year's focus will be on bottlenecks in civil proceedings, of which the most important keywords are state fees, the delivery of procedural documents and the reasonable period of proceedings. The main ways of the presentation have been discussed in the Court Administration Advisory Board on 20 May this year, which is why the report can be considered as a message from the entire judicial system to Parliament. First of all, a look back on the proposals made in last year's presentation. The previous presentation contained two proposals in principle. In the area of penal law, a comprehensive scientific review of penal law was proposed in order to define the objectives and direction of the longer term development of criminal law on a value-based basis. I am pleased to note that the Ministry of Justice took this proposal very seriously. A panel of scientists and specialists, led by Professor Jaan Sootak, is working on this ambitious task. The second proposal concerned the law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and related laws, which entered into force on 1 January 2009, which repeated the increase in the rates of state fees. The proposal was to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the current state fees on the legal protection of individuals with regard to their fundamental rights. Unfortunately, this proposal was overlooked by both the legislator and the government. The legislator has undoubtedly a wide margin of discretion in setting fees, but with fiscal policy objectives alone, we have reached a situation where the fundamental right of persons to bring their rights to court in the event of infringement is not guaranteed, particularly because of high state fees. Without looking for the causes of the constitutional contradiction of the current state fees or even less guilty, the report seeks to provide a solution for how to overcome the situation, how to ensure constitutional access to justice for individuals. I will provide some statistics on the work of the courts for 2010. In order to better understand the current situation and functioning of the Estonian judicial system, the main indicators of the 2010 judicial statistics have been added to the report, and I will make a brief reference to them. The workload of judges dealing with civil matters increased evenly across Estonia. More than half, i.e. 56% of the total number of civil cases, will still be submitted to the courts in urgent proceedings for a payment order. Both the processing of applications and the resolution of criminal cases in general proceedings have accelerated. However, the speed at which courts work in different regions of Estonia is still strikingly different. The largest Harju County Court in Estonia solves a criminal case in an average of 337 days, i.e. almost a year faster than the court can in Viru County. As of 9 June 2011, there are 226 judges in Estonian courts, with 16 vacant posts. To sum up, this means that the burden on land judges exceeded the expected optimal burden by about 18%. In assessing the state of justice, it must be stated that the Estonian judicial system is currently operating on the basis of the labour resources at its disposal, taking into account its capabilities. Changes are essential within the judicial system, but only by changing procedural codes or increasing the number of judges will not achieve a good result. Systematic structural changes are needed which were not implemented by the previous Riigikogu when dealing with the draft law on courts. The government coalition has set the objective that proceedings should not last more than 100 days at any stage of the court. This is undoubtedly the right aim. A reduction in the duration of the proceedings, if this does not adversely affect the quality of the proceedings, is justified. However, this is a very ambitious objective which cannot be achieved by simple statistical methods. The current average duration of proceedings is more than 100 days in all types of proceedings, 426 days in general proceedings, 197 days in civil matters. A hundred days of proceedings in one instance is a higher standard, which should mean that at least one year is reached in each instance or in each case. In comparison, in its case-law, the European Court of Human Rights has considered a reasonable period of proceedings in so-called ordinary civil cases, which does not exceed two years in a single instance. It must be said immediately that it is disproportionate State fees, on the one hand, and difficulties in service of documents for parties to proceedings, on the other hand, that these are the two main reasons which make it difficult to reach a decision in civil proceedings within a reasonable period of time. In order to go into the topic of both state fees and reasonable time of proceedings, two analyses were prepared in the Supreme Court, on which today's report is based, these are annexes 1 and 2. First of all, I will explain the difficulty of service as the main obstacle to reaching a reasonable period of proceedings. The Supreme Court analysed both the reasonable period of proceedings in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the cases in which the European Court of Human Rights has found that Estonia has violated the requirement of a reasonable period of proceedings in civil proceedings. It should be noted that the four cases presented in the analysis do not suggest that they are the only cases where the Estonian judicial system has failed to resolve civil proceedings within a reasonable period of time. Those civil cases whose total duration of proceedings at different levels exceeds the criteria of the European Court of Human Rights for a reasonable period of proceedings are sufficient in Estonian courts to admit the existence of the problem and its gravity. With its 1.98 complaints per 10,000 inhabitants, Estonia is certainly among the more active countries of the European Court of Human Rights, with an average of 0.75 complaints per 10,000 inhabitants. Thus, the supervision of the Strasbourg Court of Estonia's compliance with the requirements of Article 6 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in matters of reasonable duration of proceedings is quite intense. Without underestimating the importance of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in shaping our legal system, it must be stressed, however, that the Estonian judicial system does not have to deal with cases in Strasbourg in fear within a reasonable period of time, but must still do so primarily in the interests of all Estonians. It is the duty of the State to ensure that the procedure is smooth. The European Court of Human Rights has formulated this principle through various case-laws in the following positions. 1. The State must make it possible to establish a legal system which does not infringe Article 6.1 of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. 2. Ensuring a smooth procedure is an institutional task for the Court. 3. The State may decide how it will set up a judicial system to ensure compliance with the requirement of a reasonable period of proceedings. If the system created is ineffective, then the state must also take responsibility for it. The chronic burden on the courts does not justify an unreasonable length of proceedings. 4. The State is also responsible for cases where the overload of the courts is due to a lack of staff or a continuous overload. 5. The sharp increase in the number of cases brought about by legislative changes does not justify exceeding a reasonable period of time. These principles should be taken into account both in the execution of judges' seats, in assessing the workload of courts, and in the intensive legislative process, since any legislative change will inevitably lead to new legal disputes and increase the workload of courts. The most important reason why court proceedings do not work is that there are obstacles to the service of procedural documents to defendants. I'm going to stop for a long time for that reason. In the Estonian courts of first instance, it is estimated that one third to half of all pending civil proceedings are pending at the stage of service of documents, which means that the proceedings in these cases will stand until the defendant is found. The urgent payment order procedure set up in 2006, which was designed to review simpler claims where the debtor does not have any substantive legal argument against the claim, also faces the same problem. The courts are in difficulty with the initial service at the beginning of the procedure, which is the case with the greatest delay. Later service will go smoothly, as the Code of Procedure allows the documents to be deemed to have been served if they have been delivered to the address where the defendant has received the documents once. Since 2006, when the relevant institute was introduced into the law in its current form, the Supreme Court has made more than 40 decisions on the service of procedural documents, which shows that this is a mass problem. The legal presumption that the applicant is obliged to know where and how the defendant is best served is understandable, but, unfortunately, such a presumption does not help to speed up the procedure. It may be asked how fair it is to consider the risk of finding a defendant as a risk for the applicant in all cases. If the parties to the dispute are contractual partners in a permanent business relationship, having information on the contact details of the other party is a generally understandable and acceptable requirement. However, if the parties concerned are not parties to a permanent commercial relationship and the applicant is unable to find the defendant, the State should assist in finding the information necessary to bring the defendant to court on the basis of a power monopoly. However, it must be assumed that a defendant in severe economic difficulties or simply a malicious defendant does not want to be available. The summoning of the defendant and service to him of the application are subject to higher requirements than those applicable before the amendment of the 2006 Act. The Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court has emphasised that the summoning of the court and the publication of a newspaper advert to the defendant of the application seriously undermines the fundamental right of the person to be present at the hearing of his case as provided for in § 24 (2) of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has also noted that publication of judicial documents in Official Notices is not the optimal way to inform the individual party of the documents sent to him. The court must take further steps to find information on the defendant's place of residence, such as requiring the applicant to provide further information, to seek out inquiries to public registers or other authorities which may have information on the defendant's place of residence as a result of their professional activities. The increased standard of delivery was introduced, as stated, in 2006 with the amendment to the TsMS. The explanatory memorandum to that draft stated that sending an invitation to an address entered in the population register cannot be considered as delivery of a document, as the entries in the population register are currently not sufficiently certain, at the moment. Now that the courts are overloaded with the delivery of documents to the defendants, there is reason to ask how much the population register data has become more reliable in the past 4.5 years. The legal person can, in principle, receive documents under the current Code of Civil Procedure at the address of the business register, but if the member of the management board cannot be apprehended there and it is not clear whether it is the defendant's business space, then the further service of the member of the management board as a natural person or the defendant's business space will be reduced. It is worth noting that administrative court practice treats the service of documents to a legal person differently in tax proceedings. The Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court is of the opinion that the legal person must continuously ensure receipt of mail by a member of the management board or other authorised person at its registered address. Thus, since its establishment, the company is obliged to communicate with society and, if necessary, to be available to the courts. Standards for the service of documents to legal persons in civil and administrative court proceedings, in particular in tax proceedings, are therefore of different levels. It is undisputed that everyone has the fundamental right to be present at the hearing of their case, but that fundamental right must not be misused by preventing other persons from defending their rights in court. The court is not a performance agency whose invitations may be rejected by prying. To sum up, the standards for service in civil and administrative court proceedings need to be harmonised. Some reductions in the standard of service for legal persons have been justified, bearing in mind the need to ensure that judgments are recognised and enforceable. A system based on data from a reliable population register should become the main guarantor of the service of documents to natural persons, which would prevent malicious exclusion from the courts. Next, state fees. In order to understand the seriousness of the issue of state fees, I will construct an example in the area of health care. Treatment queues would decrease or disappear at all if, for example, we set a family doctor's visit fee of EUR 1000. Of course, you can imagine where and to whom the state should channel the money in such a case in a few years' time, but it would certainly not be constitutional to prevent access to medical care with such a visit or in accordance with the principles of our social state. The state fees are similar. Large state fees have prevented access to justice and we are trying to think that it is compatible with the Constitution and the rule of law until the Supreme Court has declared the charge required in a particular case unconstitutional. The Supreme Court has already done so many times and these solutions do not seem to end until the legislator brings state fees into line with the Constitution. I stress that the situation is extremely serious. Access to justice is a fundamental right under Article 15 of the Constitution. Article 6 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms provides for the right to a fair trial. Justice may be as fair and fair as it may be, but when there is no normal access to it, the rights of individuals remain unprotected. In our rapidly changing and yet evolving legal order, the state must not risk that legal disputes cannot be brought to justice because of high state fees or other obstacles. If everyone does not have the opportunity to go to court to defend their rights, the'stronger parties', be they banks or monopolies of service providers, will dominate the conditions of freedom of contract. Without the possibility of litigation, or without judicial review, we create a favourable ground for a stronger right, which may not coincide with the will of the legislator. Without judicial review, we will never know how the law actually applies in practice and whether the rights of persons taking part in civil turnover are protected, or whether there is a practice of "real life," which may differ greatly from the legal order established by the legislator. The evaluation of the effectiveness of a civil dispute is based mainly on three criteria, namely the complexity, duration and cost of the procedure. These indicators are also used by the World Bank to assess the business environment of countries and the enforceability of contracts. The state fee shall be the middle of the costs and may, financially, block recourse to the courts. The state fee has a number of socio-economic aspects which cannot be denied, but it should be noted that all socio-economic aspects must only be considered once basic access to justice is guaranteed. When setting state fees, it must be taken into account that this is the core function of the State, the performance of which must be guaranteed regardless of whether the person is able to pay for it or not. According to the definition of the European Court of Human Rights, access to a court must not be theoretical and illusory, but must be practical and effective. Unfortunately, the opposite situation has arisen in Estonia. The implementation of the Constitution cannot be placed on the price tag and then traded, whether the Constitution should be enforced or not, and how much it will cost. Access to justice may be restricted by proportionate state fees. Whether or not it is left to the parties to the dispute, it is for the legislator to decide, but a distinction should be made between at least three groups of disputes with regard to the fixing of the rates of charges, of which only in the course of proceedings the recovery of the costs of proceedings is justified through the participation of the parties to the proceedings. Action in proceedings, especially disputes concerning children, family, custody and where there is no "other party" but there is a clear public interest, cost-based fees are unjustified. In establishing the fees for administrative proceedings, account must be taken of the objectives of this type of procedure and of the specific nature of the dispute which cannot be assimilated to the action. A person defending his or her rights in a court of law against the rule of law must not be prevented by corrupting state fees, for example, in order to prevent a citizen from arguing with the tax administration. The main purpose of the imposition of state fees is to ensure that the costs of legal proceedings are covered. Cost orientation is a generally declarable objective in other countries as well, but unfortunately, in the course of a thorough analysis, we did not find any country where the linking of state fees to the costs of a procedural procedure would be covered by the calculations. On the contrary, several international studies have concluded that fees are often based on rather random principles and it is not known whether or not they are associated with costs in the development of rates. The same is true in Estonia. The Supreme Court has stated that it cannot be considered a legitimate objective to earn additional revenue for the state, but the state fee must serve the principle of procedural economy and protect other parties from excessive and malicious complaints that could unduly overburden the court with disputes. Looking at the dynamics of the formation of court fees in comparison with other countries, it should be noted that already in 2007 the rates of state fees in Estonia were high and comparable to those of countries whose fees are generally considered high, such as Germany and Austria. In 2009, the rates of state fees were increased not in percentage terms, but in repeats, and we can say that in Estonia both the maximum amount of state fees and the proportionate level of fees for proprietary claims are the highest in the European Union, accounting for about 12.3% of the requirement. In France the same figure is 2.7%, in Finland 3.06, in Latvia 6.4. As the methodology for setting state fees varies from country to country, absolutely accurate comparisons cannot be made. However, if the state fees in force in Estonia are the highest in the European Union, then the Finnish court fees are at the end of this ranking, not to say the lowest. Finland's average wage was just over 3000 euros in 2010, and Estonia's average wage recently reached 800 euros. Comparing these figures, it is a luxury to go to court in Estonia, not to realise the fundamental right. A little bit of procedural help. In a situation where a person is unable to apply to the courts due to excessive state fees, the State must guarantee him or her access to procedural assistance. The procedural assistance system in Estonia is based on the assumption that most persons who wish to go to court to protect their rights will be able to pay the state fee. In such cases, the granting of procedural aid must be exceptional and considered. Unfortunately, it's the other way around. Given the disproportion of the standard of living and the very high level of state fees, the examination of the application for procedural assistance is preceded by a substantive examination of practically every case. In granting procedural aid, the court must carry out a thorough assessment of the applicant's financial position and determine whether the person does not have assets which can be realised without major difficulties and which could be used to pay the State fee. According to the judges, the decision to grant procedural assistance has become a separate stage of procedure, leading to additional resource-intensive work for the courts and extending the period of proceedings by the so-called procedural aid stage. This could last months, if not years, thanks to appeal procedures and constitutional review procedures. When setting state fees, it is basically a choice between two systems: either creating a system of'reasonable fees and a small number of procedural assistance applications' or a system of'very high rates of state fees and a large number of procedural assistance applications'. For some reason, another system has been strongly established in Estonia, which leads to the unreasonable spending of procedural resources in the judicial system, not on justice, but on finding out the economic situation of those who turn to the court. This makes court proceedings unreasonably long and creates unconstitutional obstacles to accessing the court. An analysis of the case-law shows that, in conjunction with large State fees, the current procedural rules are also problematic. It must be understood that procedural aid is in fact a loan in substance and may not facilitate the overall situation of a person. I would, for example, like the situation where the person had to pay the state fee in instalments over a longer period of time. The county court ordered the payment of the state fee of EEK 111000 in the form of 500-kroon parts. In such a case, the person would have had to pay the state fee within 18,5 years. However, the Circuit Court considered that such payment of state fees as parts was not justified. There are cases in which a person is forced to sell the contested property in order to pay the State fee in order to require the sharing of the joint property. A person cannot be wholly exempt from state fees, since he still has property in the form of a joint property. For example, the County Court determined that the person would be released from payment of EEK 200000, but would have to pay EEK 100000 in instalments for the division of his own assets within two years. These examples may be somewhat exceptional, but illustrate the general rules governing the granting of procedural aid and established case law, which suggests that everyone's right to apply to the courts for the protection of their rights is significantly impeded and does not comply with the rule of law. In summary, it should be noted that a fundamental revision of state fees and procedural assistance is necessary in order to bring the rates of state fees to the proportions corresponding to the standard of living of Estonia and to comply with the Constitution in order to ensure that everyone has a fundamental right to apply to the courts in order to protect their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U43	Thank you, President of the Supreme Court. You have a lot of questions, too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Rask! Thank you for this report. To a large extent, you touched on an issue that was also acutely highlighted in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is state fees that are an obstacle to the realisation of people's constitutional rights. In the previous composition of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a number of such individual cases have been discussed, so we are familiar with the subject. But we also know why it went like this in the state of the state budget crisis. My question is: how much of this problem has been acknowledged in the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Are they aware of all the arguments you put forward and of the unreasonable level of fees in Estonia in the European context?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U45	I can tell you that the Ministry of Justice is currently developing a very serious draft amending the regulation of state fees. Last Monday there was a three-and-a-half-hour meeting of the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court, the Chairs of the Civil and Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court and the experts of the Ministry of Justice, where we basically reviewed the entire table of state fees. Of course, there are a lot of debatable moments. The bill is still very young, if not to say, a set of ideas. But the main course is to reduce state fees in general and to put them in the right proportions. As far as the awareness of this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is concerned, Mr Herkel, you were able to answer that yourself, and much better than I am. As regards general information about society, the Supreme Court has made three serious decisions within the framework of constitutional review. One of them is the decision of the General Assembly to declare state fees unconstitutional in one particular case. So the subject should be sufficiently conscious. But it's also pretty serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U46	Marika Tuus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Rask! You brought here a very good parallel with health care. The state fees to go to court are really huge when we compare them with other countries. We know that the difference between Sweden and some 100 000 kroon claims is probably about 14 times. There is also a big difference between many other countries. We have tabled a bill in this Chamber to reduce these fees. I remember exactly how the then Minister of Justice, Rein Lang, replied that people had to go to court less, because in court, the so-called low passions were satisfied. I also remember that when Toomas Luman, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was in this Chamber, he said that, of course, the state fee must be as high as the cost to the state of the court action in question. How do you think it's going: you're protesting here, does anything change?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U48	If nothing changes, the constitutional situation will continue. I think it is in Parliament's hands, and Parliament should do everything in its power to ensure that the Constitution is respected in all its demands. As far as recourse to court is concerned by low emotions, state fees do indeed have a relevant preventive effect. I also said in my report that state fees must be proportionate and reasonable in order to prevent light-handed recourse to court and, specifically, to bring actions for the purpose of 'bullying'. It is a question of perception of what is right in our socio-economic situation in order to avoid light-handed litigation. At the same time, I must admit that no case has happened to me where someone would have turned to court lightly in this way. It's happened before. I remember the year was 2000 or even 1999, when Mrs Feja Räim filed 300 or more complaints with the Tallinn Administrative Court. It was about the topic of the forced tenants, and as a result of all this, the administrative court had to deal with other matters, figuratively speaking. There have been isolated cases of this kind, but generally, state fees should discipline people at rates far below those currently in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U49	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. President of the Supreme Court! I would like to thank you very much for a meaningful and analytical report that has given us considerable concern. After all, many people in Estonia are not guaranteed the constitutional right to go to court because they are poor. Do you have any idea how many people we have now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U51	If I tell you a million, will it satisfy you? I don't know. First of all, I don't know how many people would want to go to court. But how many people who cannot go to court because they cannot pay state fees can be identified by some kind of sociological research. Instead, I would stress that people who are unable, for example, to deal with their own affairs by means of agreements in civil proceedings must have the opportunity to receive procedural assistance if the state fee is high. And in any case, it must be possible to argue with the state. A much more complex issue, however, is administrative court proceedings. If there are very high state fees, then there may be an illusory picture of how well our country works. It's gonna be all right. Nobody's gonna argue with the country. Another way, of course, is for the people to come out on the street instead. I would like disputes not to be settled in barricades, but in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U52	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! First of all, let me thank you for a meaningful and interesting presentation. It has to be said that your reports are usually like this. My question is the report on the part concerning the reasonable period of proceedings. News came through the media freshly that the Supreme Court was forced to return one of the things to the lower court because one of the judges who made the decision had not signed the decision. Inevitably, there are thoughts about the liability of the judge or the responsibility of all technical staff in this regard. If you think not only of a particular case, but more generally of it, how do you think such cases increase or diminish the authority of judgment? And what should be done to avoid such incidents?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U54	It is true that justice is also exercised by humans. And just as one law requiring at least 51 votes in Parliament has just not been passed, will you not come to court with such fingertips, inconspicuousness or whatever. This is a problem we are dealing with under supervision, that is absolutely clear. We have to figure out the reasons. But the fact is that the absence of a judge's signature in a judgment is an absolute ground for annulment, there is nothing to argue about. However, in the case of individual cases and, as far as I am aware, such cases are very, very, very exceptional, they do not affect the general administration of the Court. However, if this happens on a massive scale, the legislator will have to do something very serious. I do not consider it necessary at this stage to review any procedural arrangements or to set up any separate points of responsibility in this matter. This is a case that needs to be analysed and, even in the context of the training of judges, discussed as part of the preparation of judges. It's basically a study case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U55	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U56	Thank you. Thank you for your presentation, it was usually very meaningful for the President of the Supreme Court! My question concerns the burden on judges and courts. You said that the Estonian judicial system is currently working on the labour resources at its disposal, taking into account its capabilities on the border and even exceeding the optimal level by about 18%. We all know that there are few good judges. I'll ask you that. The judges are provided with 49 to 56 days of leave per year, depending on their grade. Has there been any calculation or analysis that, if these leave days were reduced to 35 days in the public sector, would it increase resources and shorten procedures? Or is the reality such that the judges can't take advantage of their assigned holiday days during the year, just like our prime minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U57	Such a causal link would be somewhat arbitrary. I tend to think that the principle that our judicial system is built up is correct. And the principle is that the trial is organised by the judge himself. This means that it is, of course, possible to set up some time limits for him, but whether these would result in a shortening of the duration of proceedings is a question. If a responsible judge has a lot of things and tries to take advantage of every opportunity to set up sittings, he will certainly work overburdened and it is possible that he will also not be able to use all the holidays. However, there are also 226 judges in the judicial system who have a number of working days other than holidays, whether in health or otherwise. In addition, it must be taken into account that judges are even legally obliged to participate in lifelong learning, in continuing education. Training days are working days. So I don't think it's gonna work to shorten the duration of proceedings by regulating holidays. However, I dare say that the length of the holiday is up to the legislator. It has now been decided this way, but in many countries judges have been equated with different groups of civil service workers. In some places the vacation is even longer, I don't know whether it's because of the hot climate or something else. So it's a matter of negotiation, it's a matter of decision-making. However, these few days of direct labour resources probably do not add up, and I dare say that the main reasons for the accumulation of things are, I have already pointed out, these are fees and problems in the delivery of documents. But there's a lot more of these reasons. However, I repeat: this is an issue that Parliament can discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U58	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U59	Thank you. My question, too, concerns the existence of human resources in the courts. You pointed out that there are currently 16 vacant judges, which is quite a percentage, and that there is a downward trend in filling the judges' seats over the last three to four years. What could be the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U60	There are probably several reasons. The first reason is that no one can tell how many judges are needed in Estonia. This 242 is a figure that has evolved over time, which has slightly decreased. On the other hand, it must be taken into account that becoming a judge is a long process. From the announcement of the competition, all the Judges' seats will normally be filled in the competition until the appointment of the Judge takes three-quarters of a year. The place is released when a person retires. We can predict it more or less, but not exactly a person can work up to 68 years of age using the current law and not retire. I can give examples of how the release of some places was not predictable. Keywords are Viru County Court, Tartu County Court and Võru courthouse. Three judges charged with criminal prosecution immediately resigned from their duties as judges. It was very difficult to predict that these places would be released. But there are still several reasons. It may also be that, under the current regulation, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice will announce a competition to fill a vacant judge's seat only on the basis of the motives known to him, whether or not to fill the vacancy. The vacant or vacant post means 1 million kroons with taxes in terms of the budget, according to the rule of thumb. This means that 16 million kroons are currently used in the reserve of the courts of the Ministry of Justice for other purposes, not for paying the judge's salary. It has been used to stimulate court officials, raise salaries and everything else. So there are a number of factors at stake that may not encourage the Minister of Justice to announce the competition faster. The Minister must consider how to manage the courts with the current budget resources. These many reasons have also been analysed by the Court's Administrative Advisory Board. I dare say that whether there are 200 judges in Estonia or 242 of them is due to the organisation of work at the most. Unfortunately, we are used to the fact that a judge, as a highly paid servant, has to deal with things that he should not actually deal with in the pursuit of these same defendants, the provision of documents, the training of staff. These things should be dealt with by people who also deal with it every day and who do not have to be judges. The development of staff assisting judges is, in fact, the key to solving the problem. The number of judges in Estonia could indeed be smaller than it is now, but this means that the support structures should function in such a way that the judge can be the judge, the judge of the proceedings and the judge of justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U61	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! I bow down to the first Supreme Court that you carried out a very thorough analysis of the large state fees, and the second, of course, to the Finance Committee, that the draft of the Central Party Group, thanks to these additional arguments, remained in Riigikogu proceedings. There wasn't a normal coalition road roll. But don't you think that, because of the high state fees, people's fundamental right to go to court is becoming a luxury commodity?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U63	That's what I said, and that's what I think. What should be considered a luxury is, of course, a question of its own, but black bread should probably not be.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U64	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U65	Thank you. Honourable man of the court! If I'd heard your report years ago, I could have used it in my debates on this subject in this room. Unfortunately, that was not possible. Now, from the working group that goes together. As we know, in the 1990s, the story in Estonia was that in very many cases the law did not require the state fee to be paid. In my opinion, this could be the case in cases where we can assume that a person does not have any money through a court-martial he is still demanding money, whether it be a salary or something else, and also in cases where a person is complaining about the state. Has this wise task force, which has now come together, mentioned that there could be more state tax exemptions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U66	Yeah, that's one of the subjects that was discussed there. Basically, if you would like to hear my personal position, a good questioner, I say that a little disciplined state fee is always better than exemption from state fees. Whether it is five euros for me, or how much of it is once again a matter of feeling. If we are talking about covering administrative costs by the administrative actors or, let's say, the complainants themselves, whether it's court administration or some other administration, it should discipline a little. But the fee must not be strangled. Of course, it is also possible to find areas where fee administration becomes more complex than the fee itself is worth. These cases will probably need to be carefully discussed from the perspective of the future draft. It certainly does not make sense to impose some kind of EUR 50-cent state fee. So not only does the social aspect have to be taken into account, but also the aspect of how the fee should be dealt with. This must not be a separate stage of procedure again, for which we will allocate another of the resources of the officials. The consequence is that justice cannot be dealt with by the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U67	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U68	Thank you. I too thank the President of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, for his very analytical review and especially for the fact that this was a very serious report. I was very deeply touched by a sentence that came to the conclusion that the citizen of the Republic of Estonia does not have fundamental access to justice. Here's my three questions. Why are Estonia still among the highest rates of state fees in the European Union? In the neighbouring Republic of Finland, they are the lowest in the European Union. Secondly, how do you think this situation has developed? And thirdly, who is guilty of the situation? And if the answer is as I am afraid of our MEPs who represent the people, is not the concept of the rule of law really under pressure?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U69	With regard to the comparison between Finland and Estonia, I can say so much that Finland and Estonia are not comparable at all at this level. In Finland, the high tax burden and the social state principle are much stronger rooted than we do. In Finland, much more is obtained with this public money than we do. In Estonia, for 20 years, there has been a trend that, in fact, as you and I, who do not go to court, do not have to pay for someone else to turn. It's like he who turns should pay for himself. At the same time, the winch has been turned around and a situation has been reached where the one who turns should pay for himself, but he can no longer pay. Finland is not the best comparison in this respect. I have also pointed out here that Austria and Germany, where there are quite similar legal systems, have a rather similar approach, whereas Austria and Germany, in terms of the overall level of fees in Europe, are not countries for small levies. Sweden is right, even in Finland, the fees are much lower, but the reasons are elsewhere. The next question: how has this situation developed? I would like to draw your attention to some of the pages of this same analysis, which also includes the issue of raising the fees in 2009. The relevant verbatim reports of the Riigikogu have also been quoted there. It was, after all, a decision made under the conditions of the recession, and I do not know whether Parliament was wrong this time in its pursuit of fiscal policy objectives, but it has now become clear that another matter was mistaken. Who's to blame? To be honest, I wouldn't want to deal with the issue of guilt. This is a matter for other bodies and whether the legal term 'guilty' can be used at all when assessing political decision-making is a matter of its own. I'm sure it's an interesting subject, but I'd limit myself to that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U70	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U71	Thank you, manager. A very honored waitress! A number of aspects related to the administration were also discussed here. What do you consider the possibility of using electronic procedures, including digital signatures, in the judicial system? To what extent has it been introduced in different courts, or is the judicial system so conservative that it does not favour such solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U72	The principle is that, regardless of the form of the appeal, the right must be understood. And whether documents are transmitted and signed digitally, in paper form or in any other form, it doesn't matter. Either way, the oral procedure never disappears in courts. That's the beauty of it! Estonia has gone this way to encourage the lodging of digitally signed documents. Does this have to be reflected in state fees? One idea is that digital business should be cheaper. Personally, I doubt that. Until society accepts electronic access as a basic form, there can be no obstacles to those who prefer paper-based media. In order to make progress in general, the state should, of course, promote electronic administration in all its dimensions, but it cannot be said to the elderly that you must first buy a computer and learn it, otherwise you cannot defend your rights. That would be an obstacle. Go get a lawyer! It's gonna cost you again, isn't it? Thus, the choice of these forms must, above all, take account of the content. Fundamental rights must be protected. Currently, the judicial system is addressed both by using electronic procedures models and by sending statements with a ballpoint pen. For example, prisoners only write by hand and they also need to be answered. Surely this area is not part of natural development, nor must the judicial system be more conservative and be left behind. It will take time, of course, but maybe we can see that the whole thing is happening in the virtual world.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U73	Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U74	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for a very thorough presentation and for having touched on the subject of criminal judges. I'd like to ask you a few questions on a particular case. About a month ago, during a civil dispute, the Pärnu County Court issued a debt from a lady in Märjamaa that she had never taken. However, this process cannot be regarded as an argument, as the lady was not informed of the trial. The verdict went into forced execution. All the time limits for appeal have been exceeded and the woman's property has been seized. My question is: is this a new direction in the case law now, or maybe a mistake, a finger? At least I believe it. But if it is a mistake, how will the judge be punished for his negligence? The woman was condemned to starve for a month by this decision. Basically, what I am interested in: could it be possible to avoid such mistakes in the future, to start creating a support structure supporting competent judges?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U75	Thank you, good questioner! I am making the seventh presentation here in the Riigikogu, and you are the first to ask for a specific matter. It is not the practice of Parliament to discuss specific cases. Every judge is independent in making a decision, but you can appeal. The principle is that the President of the Supreme Court cannot intervene in the activities of any judge, either publicly or through other channels. I therefore owe you an answer. However, if this question is addressed to the President of the Supreme Court for supervision and clarification of the case, the President of the Supreme Court is obliged to answer that question. But it requires access to documents, it requires learning the subject, it requires many, many, many things on the basis of which it can be concluded whether or not a particular judge is involved in disciplinary action. I can't confirm it from this remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U76	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U77	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, thank the honourable rapporteur for a very meaningful and interesting presentation. My question relates somewhat to the previous questions. According to the rapporteur, it is difficult to assess how much the workload of judges could increase in the case of lower fees, but if it has increased in times of high state fees, it will undoubtedly increase further if the fees are reduced. My question is this: are there any areas other than the service of documents and the search for defendants, which the judges should not deal with and which should be organised around? For example, inmates' complaints. The Committee on Legal Affairs has learned that they obstruct administrative courts. The fundamental rights of prisoners are limited anyway, so maybe they shouldn't even be able to go to the courts? Perhaps their complaints should be resolved differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U78	As regards the increase in the workload of the courts resulting from the reduction of state fees, I tend to think that this is not significant. For the simple reason that, when we look at the statistics of the courts, in 2010 the number of civil cases increased by 10%, regardless of the high level of state fees, compared to 2009. The court continued to be seised when the disputes were unresolved, but procedural assistance was immediately applied for without payment of a fee. If the fees are now reduced, this stage of procedural assistance, which I have already talked about, should be cancelled. It may also give rise to a court of law on a lighter hand. However, in my opinion, the courts should certainly be freed from these two additional stages: one is to resolve the difficulties in the service of documents caused by the weakness of the population register and the other is that the courts must be involved in establishing the applicant's financial position. My report was aimed at increasing judicial labour force. As far as the different types of proceedings are concerned, administrative court proceedings are certainly the subject of next year's report. At the moment, however, I can say that 1/3 of the amount of work carried out by administrative courts is made up of complaints from detainees. We have created such an interesting system, where the only ones who have a four-stage judicial system in Estonia are detainees. In fact, the detainees cannot turn to the administrative court until they have passed the pre-trial dispute proceedings of the Ministry of Justice. This is not unique to Estonia. Perhaps this figure is high, but in a democratic rule of law, prisoners must be treated in the same way as free people in terms of protecting their fundamental rights. The prisoner only has certain regime requirements. However, if there are really disputes over whether porridge is to be given with porridge or cranberry jam and whether the jam must be mixed in or set aside on a plate if the court has to discuss it seriously, then it must be opposed. There have been a number of debates about this, and I imagine that there will also be some reasonable solution, which will prevent the court from being burdened with disputes where there is no legal content.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U79	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U80	Thank you, good manager. Thanks to the waitress! I'm gonna ask you about a bill. A few years ago, all kinds of procedures went through the court bill. Then it stopped at some point. What's it gotten to, and what's it gonna do with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U81	The previous parliamentary formation initiated the Courts Act on 16 December 2009. On the 22nd of January, if I wasn't wrong or a little later, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this for the first time. In March, the Commission also discussed this once, and it will probably be able to answer all questions about the future by the then Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Väino Linde.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U82	Väino Linde, please, but we do not expect you to answer that question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U83	Thank you. Since my name was named, I've got a round of questions right now. However, Mr President, and a good waitress, I am going to ask from a different perspective. In the last Yearbook of the Courts 2010 there is an interesting article by Julia Kachkovskaya, judge of the Tallinn Circuit Court. As far as I know, the decisions of the Supreme Court, the decisions of the Supreme Court, have also been seriously criticised. In particular, the Criminal Chamber has been accused of not being quite consistent in the Supreme Court's decisions, that they resemble research rather than judgment, and that there are other critical views. How could this affect our justice in the future? What is the Supreme Court's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U84	Julia Kachkovskaya's article attracted the most serious attention to the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. The article is long and analytical and available on the website of the Supreme Court under the link "Yearbook of Courts 2010." Julia Kachkovskaya's article is very practical. He analyses a wide range of aspects of penal law, both substantive law and procedural law in this regard, pointing out as keywords such bottlenecks that he considers to be directly due to the work of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. At times, the author makes a destructive assessment of this. As far as I am concerned, the Criminal College agrees with a very large number of statements, because these results of the analysis suggest that we should either amend laws on substantive criminal law or procedural law and clarify matters. I am thinking, for example, of the addition of the same person's sentences convicted in different courts or of the issue of the addition of penalties at all. It's made into a higher mathematics that maybe even the legislator doesn't understand anymore. In other words, this article has for the first time highlighted a great many bottlenecks and we can say that there are no links or institutions in the judicial system in the Republic of Estonia either. In my opinion, the strongest message in this article is that it is possible to improve the system by means of an expert article, an expert criticism. Apparently, Julia's article was aimed at that. Of course, if the discussion on justice goes to this area, that it is going to involve a very large number of people through the coloured press, then often the legal discussion is not working out. This article is quite different, and I think we need more of these.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U85	Mr President, thank you very much for your report and your answers. No further questions. Thank you, and thank you for your strength. Now I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Mr Andres Anvelt, representative of the Social Democratic Party, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U86	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you on the last day of our spring session. Before I thank our President of the Supreme Court, Mr Rask, for this truly excellent presentation, I would like to add to one of his opinions or, rather, to the questioner who asks for a counter-question, who wants to go to court. I think the lawyers will definitely want the longer the trial, the higher the income. But forgive me, fellow lawyers, this little humour! Indeed, in his speech, the President of the Supreme Court drew attention to the same things that we experienced during the spring session during the performance of the Chancellor of Justice. The head of the Supreme Court drew attention to this as if he did not make direct accusations about political or legislative power, but we still have to draw our own conclusions from his review that we are often too pragmatic in adopting laws and are only pursuing fiscal policy. I think that one of our primary duties here in the Riigikogu is to protect the Constitution and thereby protect the rights and freedoms of the Estonian people. We must not create situations in which we have changed the fundamental right, and I will bring a new expression to circulation as a basic option. I can also at least see in my mind the law of surveillance, which we are currently working on and which we discussed both this spring and the autumn. These changes may be the result of pragmatic needs for a stalker to be very fast and operational, and involving the court too soon may lead to additional costs. But rights and freedoms are an expensive thing. It is also precisely with state fees, which are certainly intended to increase the authority of the courts, to distinguish them from notice boards and Delfi's commentaries, where people often demand their supposed rights. After all, the court is a serious body that decides who owes who, who is guilty of what. I would like to urge all of us, including myself, not only to look at the accounting aspects of every law, but certainly also to be bound by the Constitution and to have an impact on ensuring the rights and freedoms of our citizens. Another thing I wanted to highlight here quickly is that we have achieved one very high value over this 20-year period of re-independence. We can call ourselves the rule of law and, as the President of the Supreme Court also said, the social state. We have achieved a great difference compared to the situation in the 1990s when we had a cheap but weak court. Now we have an expensive, but a good duty. Any change in our system of justice could result in a weakening of the strong positive power achieved, as well as an act of maladministration, which we sensed in the early 1990s, when many legal problems were solved, not legally, but literally, unlawfully. We must not create a situation where there is a criminal world. Take, for example, the highest organ of organised crime in Estonia, the Tallinn common fund. Businessmen pay this criminal organisation 50% of the so-called fee to solve their problems. He's authoritative, and he's expensive. There's such a difference, of course, that it doesn't matter whether you win or lose the whole fee anyway. So we need to stand up for our positive power to be strong, our people's rights to be protected, and we could look at Estonia as a rule of law tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U87	Thank you. I ask Kalle Laaneti, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Supreme Court for his meaningful presentation. I hope that the shortcomings highlighted this time will not be overlooked by the government and the legislator. The problems raised today are not new in themselves, but, as you can see, omissions need constant reminder. Mr Rask stated in his report that the proposal made by the Supreme Court last time has been overlooked in every way to analyse the impact of the current high state fees on how individuals are guaranteed the judicial protection of their fundamental rights. I recall that this proposal was made by the Supreme Court on 1 January 2009 in connection with the increased rates of state fees in civil proceedings under pressure from the Government. To clarify, the government stated in a laconic way the desire to make court proceedings cost-based and to avoid overburdening courts with unjustified and malicious claims. What to deny there was, in fact, an increase in state fees was driven by the mere need to secure the budget for the crisis year with the necessary resources, which in itself was not hidden. Because of the lack of pressure from society, the government managed to put all the costs of justice on the court. The faction of the Centre Party was at that time and still considers that high state fees cannot be effective if they limit everyone's ability to go to court to defend their rights and freedoms. We have repeatedly expressed our attitude to the continuing upward trend in state fees in this Chamber and we consider that excessively high rates of state fees have become a serious obstacle to effective legal protection as provided for in § 15 of the Constitution. In response to our repeated inquiries, the Chancellor of Justice has also analysed the amount of state fees in the course of a specific standard check and has taken the view in the opinions submitted to the Supreme Court that state fees are excessively high, in other words contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. That is why we have re-submitted to the composition of the Riigikogu the proposal to amend the State Fees Act, which provides for a substantial reduction of state fees in order to ensure that the effective legal protection provided for in § 15 of the Constitution is carried out and to bring the rates closer to the average level of the Member States of the European Union (the President of the Supreme Court also drew attention to this in his speech) and, most importantly, to bring them into line with the Constitution. Until now, the judicial system has been burdened by the unfinished work of the government, and the Supreme Court has considered disproportionate state fees to be unconstitutional in the course of a specific check of norms. For the first time, the Supreme Court gave a more general position in the ruling of 12 April 2011, which stated that in Estonia, at least in the case of financial claims, the highest legal costs are proportional to those of the countries of the European Union. This position also follows from an analysis of the case law of the Legal Information Department of the Supreme Court this year, which sets out the rates of state fees and the principles of fees per Member State of the European Union. The analysis shows that, for example, in the German judicial area, whose principles are respected by the Ministry of Justice, a state fee of EUR 25 must be paid at the request of EUR 300; in Estonia, the fee is nearly EUR 64 for almost the same claim. A claim of EUR 30000 can be compared with the higher requirements, with a state fee of EUR 340 in Germany and EUR 3000 in Estonia. There are other examples. Amazing, isn't it? In a state of law, it is unacceptable that high state fees only allow legal protection to be granted to those who can afford it financially. As mentioned, the government has so far ignored this issue, but every day that has been delayed brings about new disputes that involve unreasonable legal costs. Next, I will look at the costs of legal proceedings, which is an important component in the resolution of a civil dispute. Since 2000, the only objective of changing state fees has been to make State fees more appropriate to the actual costs incurred by the State when examining cases. It seems that this is a convenient justification for the government, which lacks real content. If the State fee is a charge for an operation which should cover the direct and justified indirect costs of carrying out the operation, it must be said that no analysis has been found so far which would include calculations and support the cost-orientation of the State fee rate. The same conclusion has been reached by analysing the case law of the Supreme Court regarding state fees, to which the President of the Supreme Court referred in his report today. It is therefore that the government referred to the lack of cost-orientation analysis, clearly arbitrary and inadequate, in the case of a draft which significantly reduces the state fees initiated by the Central Party Group. I will end with hope because I believe that the Constitution will prevail in the rule of law. While we still have instances who dare to stand firm for people's rights and freedoms, the illusion of turning to court may eventually become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U89	Thank you! I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, to the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U90	Good day again, good manager. Dear President of the Supreme Court and ladies and gentlemen, A few or three weeks ago, there was a meeting in the Riigikogu with the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, Knut Vollebæk. He asked if our Language Inspectorate was not too harsh to make fines, and I said that, despite all our corruption, the fines imposed by the Inspectors of the Language Inspectorate have certainly not been the method by which the state budget is met and, in fact, the amount of fines is very low. When we talk about the amount of state fees in court proceedings, it must be said that the level of state fees has also reflected the improvement in the state budget. Now that we are moving out of the mast, there is certainly reason to look at the size of the state fees, not only as a result of the end of the mast, but also as a result of the possibility for people to go to court. Tarmo Tamm asked Märt Rask how many problems there had been or how many people did not go to court. You all have one analysis at your disposal of the procedural assistance and its division. 35% of those who have turned to the court, 37% have received partial exemption or have been able to pay the fee in instalments and 28% have had to pay the full amount of the state fees. This is the actual situation. If, as a result of the analysis, we arrive at some other size, it is certainly not such that no one is released from payment because the fee is so small that there is no problem with paying it, but of course it is possible to make these proportions different and better. That's what we have to do. Speaking of the Supreme Court's decisions and inconsistency with the Constitution, it has to be said that this is not only a matter of the amount of the fee, but also of the fact that in certain cases there is no possibility of procedural assistance at all. This, too, is certainly one aspect. Now from the speed of the trial and the task of the coalition treaty to reach a hundred days at one court level here. I think that this objective is very ambitious, but if we can improve the situation so that we do not lose quality and can also pay for this speed, we will certainly have achieved a much better situation than we have done today. Now the question is what will be the number of days spent when we complete this period of governance. Delivery. Service is not only the problem of the judicial system in the narrower sense we have discussed today, but also in the case of reporting on surveillance activities that have attracted passions, the exact same issues, perhaps from another point of view, namely how and at what cost people get the message. On the one hand, legal certainty is a very important principle. The importance of this principle has always been stressed by the judiciary. On the other hand, we must realise that the party to the proceedings still needs to be tuned, so that we can have a simpler, faster and more reasonable court order. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U91	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U92	The question of Supreme Court decisions was already addressed by Väino Linde and Märt Rask. Perhaps there is less criticism here in administrative and civil matters. It came out most prominently in the analysis of criminal matters. I would remind you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, that members of the Riigikogu are also able to participate in matters relating to the administration of courts. Two people have been chosen from among us, Deniss Borodich and I, who in the court administration council can also help to move towards reasonable solutions in the administration of courts. I want to wish strength to the Estonian judiciary. In another position, I have asked whether a politician has such a dilemma that an elephant versus a pensioner, and I can say that there is no such dilemma. What am I talking about? If there is a choice between building a new house for fat-skinned people and allocating money or raising pensions, then the politician has no dilemma, in any case he prefers raising pensions. Mr Rask said that it was not polite to talk about specific cases. I'm trying not to. If there's a dilemma, either a dog versus a judge or some drunken speedster who's caused the death of people, or some killer who's left unpunished because of a specific kill paraphrase, then definitely people don't choose the judge. My suggestion: simply, not in the context of specific matters, but at all, to help people to understand better, using ordinary media, which pieces of justice stand together and what are the circumstances that can and cannot be taken into account. Have a good day, and we hope that we will actually not only talk but also be able to change the problems dealt with by our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U93	Thank you! Please ask Rait Maruse, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear President of the Supreme Court! In the early 1990s, when I had the honour and obligation to create and get into the process of the Supreme Court, the President of the Supreme Court had no legal obligation to present an annual report to the Riigikogu, as the President of the Supreme Court now has. Although, given Estonia's current court order, this presentation should be made by the Minister of Justice. However, the presentation, together with the annexes, is a grateful opportunity for the legislator, as well as the public, to receive information from a direct source and to familiarise themselves with the status and problems of one of the branches of state power. Written additional information material was included in the presentation and the presentation itself was very meaningful. This year's presentation by the President of the Supreme Court was, for obvious reasons, concentrated on some of the main problems. More specifically, inappropriately high state fees and serious difficulties of courts in service of procedural documents and in finding defendants, which have significantly slowed court proceedings and forced courts to deal with unnecessary administrative voids. Concerns are well-founded. These are not the internal concerns of the Court, but the concerns of our society in general. It is to be commended that they are clearly highlighted. To us, the authorities, this imposes an obligation to deal with the problems. We cannot, in principle, accept a situation where the highest state fees in the European Union prevent people from defending their constitutional rights and resolving civil disputes. The excessive state fee has led to courts and parties to proceedings not to deal with the main problem of litigation quickly and effectively, as we expect, but first to have secondary problems, namely where and how to find procedural assistance in order to deal with high fees. The consequence is that the whole process has slowed down and the state machine is running empty. Nor is it justified to hope that high state fees will avoid malicious or trivial appeals that burden the courts. Disputes specific to a free civil society will not go away, their resolution will simply channel elsewhere, to extra-judicial roads and forms that may not suit us at all, and which ultimately undermines the rule of law. The fear that the reduction of state fees will hit the state budget and the financing of the system is neither clear nor very justified. Without high barriers, effective and urgent legal proceedings, the overall civil turnover is rapid and state resources are not spent on overcoming or overcoming the barriers imposed by the State itself, i.e. fees. In conclusion: the handling of court fees cannot be postponed and I am pleased to note that this view was supported by an appropriate draft by the opposition. Another problem raised by the President of the Supreme Court is the service of procedural documents. The chairwoman of the Tallinn City Court of Estonia's largest court has said frankly that they are not dealing with justice, but are looking for the parties to proceedings. Again, the whole procedure is unnecessarily obstructed and state resources are being used empty. To sum up, the problem is that the population register is insufficient and unreliable for the work of the courts. We also need to make efforts here to improve the situation, including thinking about the other side of the matter, that in our legal order there is no obligation for an individual to address the state through which the state, the municipality and also private parties communicate with it. Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U95	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U96	In the context of service of judicial documents, this means that if a person has a legal obligation to provide his or her contact address and has done so, i.e. by submitting his or her address or mailbox and the State has posted its notification there, it shall be deemed to be delivered and binding to the person and the procedure shall be possible to proceed. Nota bene! This is not an invitation to re-establish the Council's record. The Soviet entry requirement was much wider and for other purposes. A person in a free democratic society may still live where he or she wishes, but this freedom may be limited in the general interest by the obligation to inform the state of how the state and the individual interact. We must understand that both sides of the relationship, both courts and individuals, have rights and obligations and must be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, The size of state fees and difficulties in service of judicial documents are important, but not the only problems of the judicial system. I would like to point out that there is a new law on courts waiting for official entry in the Riigikogu, which has long been prepared and is designed to modernise and organise the administrative organisation, management and responsibility of the judicial system, which the President of the Supreme Court has described as a structural problem of the judicial system. Without going into detail, I would like to stress the following: it is high time to end the administrative organisation of the judiciary from Soviet times, including the division of the system between the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court. This situation is not compatible with the principles of democratic state order or with the development and practice of modern justice and justice principles elsewhere in Europe. I believe that all of us and the people as a whole have been deeply affected by the cases of misconduct and corruption of the judiciary that took place in recent years. They have seriously undermined the credibility of the court and people's confidence in justice, judicial protection and the rule of law. We cannot and must not allow this. I am not saying that the only reason for these unfortunate developments is the court-ordered confusion and comfortable living between the two masters, but the blurring of discipline, supervision, reporting and responsibility has played a major role in these malformations. It is therefore in our common interest to put an end to this situation. For this purpose, the possibility is provided for the forthcoming processing, negotiation and adoption of the Law on Judicial Orders. A situation in which one cannot and the other does not want is demoralising, so as not to say destructive. If there are individual points of dispute in the draft, they will be negotiated and amended if necessary, but disagreements on individual issues cannot serve as a basis for an endless postponement of the modernisation of the whole system's regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U97	Thank you! I'm closing the negotiations. Even before we finish this item, thank you to the Chairman of the Supreme Court, as well as to the good colleagues for their questions and speeches. We are done dealing with agenda item 12. Before we go to agenda item 13, we must vote. The Riigikogu Board has received a proposal from the Reform Party Group. Its content is as follows: The Reform Party Group proposes to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday 16 June. a until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal that reads as follows: The Reform Party Group proposes to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday 16 June. a until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 59 members of the Riigikogu, 1 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U98	Let's go to the next item. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Andres Lipstok, Governor of Eesti Pank! Before we go to the report, allow me, good fellows, to briefly introduce the procedure. First, the presentation by the Governor of Eesti Pank, which lasts up to 20 minutes, then the questions for the rapporteur are one oral question about the member of the Riigikogu. After the questions can be negotiated, only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Please, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U99	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is good to stand before you again and present Eesti Pank's 2010 annual report this time. Let me start by saying a few words about the current economic situation and price stability in the euro area. The good news is that both the world and the euro area economies will recover faster than expected. Growth is slower than before the crisis, but much faster than forecast a year ago, for example. The confidence of the private sector is strong and contributes to the recovery of private consumption and investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U100	Good waitress, I'm sorry! I'm truly embarrassed to see you. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. I ask you to honor the waitress and those of you who want to listen to the presentation. Please don't talk to each other in the hall or over the phone!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U101	Capacity utilisation does not indicate in any way a crisis situation. Unemployment is high, but it is already falling. Industry and service performance are above historical averages. In addition, the growth of euro area exports is driven by the rapid growth of the global economy. Some of the worse news is that improvements in the global economy, along with a number of other reasons, have led to higher commodity prices. Estonia has not been left untouched either. Inflation in the euro area has risen to 2.7%. A large part of the price increase has been caused by global factors, i.e. the increase in the price of energy and food on the world market. Prices for other goods and services have increased more modestly. Nevertheless, the risk of price pressure in Europe and elsewhere has increased further. In April, we increased interest rates to reduce the risks of price increases. At the same time, our current interest rate level remains low and supports economic recovery. I have been a full member of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank for almost six months and I can assure you that we are very vigilant in the Council with regard to the development of inflation. If necessary, we will immediately respond to possible threats to price stability. Economic growth has not recovered uniformly in all euro area countries. In some euro area countries, recovery is threatened by the debt crisis. Inconsistency in the economic policies of the Member States has become a major source of public uncertainty. This is an area where the biggest financial and economic crisis in recent decades has taught the euro area and European politicians a number of important lessons. Firstly, economic policy coordination mechanisms in Europe have not been effective enough. Member States have not complied with long-term strategic plans and objectives, or with public finance rules, whether national or above the euro area and the European Union. All too often, fiscal policy has remained in a difficult situation, apart from the short-term interests of politicians, while following commonly agreed guidelines would also have benefited the countries themselves from ignoring them. The second lesson points to the close economic integration of euro area countries. The sovereign debt or financial sector problems of individual members may affect the euro area as a whole. Closer economic policy cooperation, whether in the areas of public finance, competitiveness or the financial sector, is therefore fully justified in order for the euro area economic and monetary system to function effectively. A strong set of rules is in all our interests. It is not only in our interest to monitor our own actions, but also to monitor the development plans and targets of other euro area Member States (not only Greece or Portugal). Thirdly, we need to prepare better for possible crises. This means more prevention and better supervision and effective crisis response measures. All of this is being dealt with right now. The new European framework, which is to be completed, provides for the implementation of increased sanctions and pressure mechanisms in the event of sovereign finance problems and other phenomena of macroeconomic imbalances. Unfortunately, the new framework is not as strong as I and my colleagues in the euro area would like, because politicians still have too much decision-making power over the application and non-implementation of sanctions. The automation of the application of the new rules should be greatly enhanced as we learn from the past. The new framework will also be part of the new permanent crisis management framework, the European Stability Mechanism, which will be operational in mid-2013 and will take over the existing temporary measures. This is the last wall of defence that is needed when preventive coordination, and also through pressure, fails to influence the state. It is not a bad decision-payment fund, it is a liquidity aid instrument for Member States whose solvency we do not, in principle, doubt. It is up to all of us to ensure that this wall of defence should never be used. This requires that all Member States comply with their commitments and commitments. This is the only way we can cope in difficult situations. In this case, no redistributive funds would be required. In short, each euro area country needs to keep its finances in order. That's the main thing. We strongly oppose those who hope that the postponement or restructuring of government debt will produce good results. Forced or pressurized the private sector is not the answer either. The problem countries themselves must work very hard to restore and maintain confidence in themselves. In the same way, we in the European Central Bank are working to maintain price stability in the euro area and to maintain confidence in the monetary policy framework of the euro area. Now Eesti Pank's activities in the changeover to the euro. The fact that I started the presentation with an overview of price stability in the euro area was not random. On 1 January 2011, Estonia completed one stage of development in monetary and economic policy. Estonia became a member of the Eurosystem and became legal tender. This has been a long-term process. The introduction of the euro became the strategic objective of the Estonian state and Eesti Pank as early as autumn 2003, when the Estonian people approved the decision to join the European Union in the referendum. This decision of the Estonian people also means supporting Estonia's accession to the euro area. Looking back last year, I am very pleased to note that the euro came into use in Estonia in a technically smooth way. The year 2010 was primarily the year of the changeover for Eesti Pank. After the usual work, thorough preparations were made for the introduction of the euro. For Eesti Pank, this also meant preparing the work of the Eurosystem, i.e. the national central bank of the euro area. It also left its mark on the financial side of our activities. The low yield on credible bonds and the reduction in the requirement for minimum reserves halved our interest income from 2009 to 414 million kroons. At the same time, we were spending more than usual because of the changeover. The biggest cost related to the euro was the production of banknotes and coins, which increased the cost of our core business by more than 50% compared to 2009 to 390 million kroons. As temporary staff were employed to prepare for the changeover, staff costs increased somewhat. However, the contract of employment for most temporary agents has already ended or is about to end. The central bank intends to keep the size of its workforce stable at 230-240 employees. In total: Eesti Pank lost nearly 30 million kroons last year, which is a huge loss, but it is almost ten times less than the forecast we took into account when putting the euro budget together. The purpose of Eesti Pank is not to make a profit. It is important that the activities of Eesti Pank in maintaining the state's monetary system and in carrying out other tasks of the central bank have been carried out smoothly. To sum up, Eesti Pank's planned budget for 2010 was 9% lower than in 2009, with a volume of 260.2 million kroons. In fact, 93% of this expenditure budget was used. In addition, as I said earlier, the euro budget was also fixed at 19.8 million kroons. Of this, 75% was used, mainly to cover the costs related to the introduction of euro cash. These so-called underperformances gave me the opportunity to tell you today that this 30-million-dollar loss was significantly less than what was on paper when the budget was put together. Accession to the euro area kept Eesti Pank's main tasks the same. Our main task remains price stability. Last year, however, the role of the central bank changed considerably. Eesti Pank, together with the central banks of other euro area countries, is responsible for price stability throughout the euro area. This means that from the beginning of 2011, as Governor of Eesti Pank, I will take part in decisions that affect not only the people of Estonia, but 331 million people in the euro area. The field of activity of the national central bank of Estonia has widened considerably. If, at the time of the kroon, we had been given monetary policy from the so-called god, then now we can have a say in the monetary policy of the euro area. We will also continue to work on ensuring financial stability in Estonia, maintaining settlement systems, organising cash circulation, managing Estonian foreign reserves, compiling and analysing statistics and advising the government. These are the day-to-day tasks that did not disappear when joining the euro area. According to Eesti Pank, Estonia will make much of the recent economic downturn back in 2011-2013. The economic recovery has been driven mainly by growth in export revenues. The role of domestic demand has remained smaller, although it is already recovering. A smooth changeover to the euro provided a good basis for us to pay attention to the basics, i.e. how we can contribute to ensuring price stability in the euro area. In doing so, joining the euro area has also reduced long-term inflation risks in our economies, as there is no longer any concern about the devaluation of the kroon and so on. At the same time, growth must be seen with sufficient vigilance. It is important both this year and next year that current high inflation above 5% in Estonia does not lead to wage growth, which in turn would boost price increases. The price increase spiral must definitely be avoided. In the interests of balanced growth, wage growth must be kept in line with productivity growth, otherwise Estonia's competitiveness may be damaged. In fiscal policy, the government has set the target of reaching a surplus with a consolidated budget by 2013. According to Eesti Pank, this task is reasonable and feasible. However, the experience of the crisis has shown that targeting only budgetary balances or surpluses may not be sufficiently reliable. In a rapidly changing environment, it is difficult to distinguish one-off surpluses from sustainable tax revenues. It is therefore appropriate to complement fiscal policy with provisions that would curb expenditure growth. With regard to financial stability, I dare confirm that Estonia has done very well with the fall. The sources of risk within Estonia have fallen rapidly as economic growth accelerated, and the main risks are rather due to the external environment. However, the development of the credit market has so far remained subdued. It is important that banks are prepared to take risks and finance sustainable projects for economic growth. All the prerequisites are there. The capitalisation of banks operating in Estonia is strong and free money for lending is sufficient as a result of the growth of deposits. It is also necessary to ensure that the volume of loans grows in line with economic growth. In conclusion, Estonia's finances have become a much stronger foundation when it joins the euro area. At the same time, it does not give us the opportunity to simply glide on the other side. In order for the Eurosystem to be strong, all parties, including us, must contribute to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U102	Thank you! You have at least one question, Mr President. There'll be more. Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! First of all, I would like to thank you for a very meaningful and thorough report. In your presentation, you mainly dealt with issues related to the recent past of Eesti Pank. My question is: what could the biggest tasks of Eesti Pank be, for example, in a three-year perspective? What do you think are the developments that should be taken into account in Eesti Pank and for which work should be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U104	Thank you. Eesti Pank in its current role, which we have after 1 January 2011, is a central bank belonging to the European System of Central Banks. The resulting tasks that the central banks of the European System of Central Banks and the central banks of the Eurosystem may have to deal with price stability in particular. On the other hand, Eesti Pank is the central bank of Estonia. Of course, being a central bank of the Eurosystem and a structure forming part of the European System of Central Banks, we cannot ignore or overlook what is happening in the Estonian economy or the tasks that have been assigned to us within the state in any way. In particular, it includes these same analyses, drawing conclusions on the basis of statistics and, of course, advising the government. But the main task is to help price stability and all these activities, which ensure price stability in the euro area as a whole as well as in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U105	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question relates to price increases. The representatives of the cabinet said there's nothing to be done. Some said they weren't going to do anything. On the other hand, the representatives of the countries of the European Union will soon meet, and one of the main issues will then be the price increase and what to do with it. You said in your report that you are also trying to do something, for example, with interest. Here is my question: how do you assess whether a country can do something with its institutions and what should it do?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U107	Thank you. Of course, ensuring and complying with price stability is one of the central bank's most important roles. Until now, being fixed in exchange rate terms in the currency board system, we were particularly unable to speak here (i am speaking now on the central bank side) because we did not have these levers. Now that I am in the euro area and part of the European System of Central Banks, one of my tasks is to monitor, examine and analyse the structure of prices, what the next price increase will be, and what the processes that will affect pricing will be. Consequently, of course, it is important to have an interest policy that the Governing Council of the European Central Bank has recently implemented once, but, of course, it is very carefully prepared to monitor what is happening at prices and to continue to raise interest rates and also to lower it if necessary. Of course, raising interest rates and maintaining overall price stability in the euro area also affect Estonia. This is certainly one of the ways in which Estonian prices can be dealt with by ensuring price stability in general. On the other hand, Estonia is a small country and we have slightly different challenges because of our differences and level of development. Here, too, price stability must be struck in two pages: on one side there is external inflation, on the other side there is basic inflation. The main causes of inflation are the same as those in Europe: fuel and food prices. That is what the European Central Bank is doing, what it is monitoring and for which it is taking action. Fortunately, at the moment in Estonia, basic inflation has not gotten out of hand yet. That is why we are saying that it is possible to take measures to prevent basic inflation from slipping away from everyone who, by some means, shape wage levels in Estonia, for example, by monitoring productivity growth and average wage growth. This is the work that Estonia can do. It is certainly possible and necessary to look at administrative pricing elements in this situation, but it is very difficult for me to tell you today whether or not it is possible to make additional steps there, which is more dependent on public finance policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U108	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U109	Thank you! Mr President, I admit that my question is perhaps somewhat spiteful. If I have recently followed the speeches of people speaking on behalf of Eesti Pank, I have the impression that the Executive Board of Eesti Pank and the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank understand somewhat differently what Eesti Pank should do. I'm worried that I should be able to talk these things out somewhere. Where is this right place, is this place in the bank council or Riigikogu, or should we find another third place to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U110	I think that the tasks facing Eesti Pank are understood in the same way by both the Board of Eesti Pank and the Executive Board of Eesti Pank. I think that this hesitation or the background of the so-called spiteful question is more related to the fact that the management of Eesti Pank and the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank have tried to review all the strategic development plans and plans that Eesti Pank has in connection with the changeover to the euro. Perhaps in the course of the review one or the other position has been described in a biased way. In fact, there is no contradiction between the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and the management of Eesti Pank in relation to what is waiting for Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U111	Mr President, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. No further questions. Dear colleagues, would you like to negotiate? There's no call. We have finished processing item 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U112	We will go to the 14th item, the Annual Report 2010 of the Financial Supervision Authority. To present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Raul Malmstein, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority! But, dear colleagues, before we begin to deal with this item, let me briefly present the procedure. First, Raul Malmstein, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, will be a presentation lasting up to 20 minutes. The questions are then for the rapporteur, and a member of the Riigikogu may ask the rapporteur a single oral question. After the round of questions there are negotiations, only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Please, good waitress, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U113	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the opportunity to perform before the respected legislative authority. Today's presentation brings me to two points. First of all, I will give an overview of the global financial markets and of the new European financial supervision framework. Secondly, I will address the new strategy of the Financial Supervision Authority and give a brief overview of our main supervisory activities last year. Estonia's society, economy and financial sector are emerging from the crisis. Renewable growth, continued strong demand in our main export partner countries, gradually improving employment and stability in the financial sector give hope that the new growth cycle of the economy could be more sustainable. The image of the Estonian economy and economic policy is stronger than ever. Despite the very difficult circumstances, we were able to meet all the criteria for adopting the euro and we will continue to follow a conservative and responsible fiscal policy. You can only be pleased about that. At the same time, developments have not been so positive in all the Member States of the European Union and especially in the euro zone. The Greek, Irish and Portuguese governments and, of course, their creditors are facing very serious difficulties. The most difficult situation is the situation in Greece, where, despite the joint EU-IMF assistance package, adequate cuts in state spending have not been made and the sale of state assets has not started at enough speed. In the coming weeks, European leaders will have to make difficult decisions on further support for Greece. Depending on the decisions to be taken, a situation where the reaction of the financial markets is strong cannot be ruled out. Although the Estonian financial sector is not directly exposed to the risks of the abovementioned countries, it cannot be excluded that the turbulence of the markets has a negative impact on the financing of banks operating in Estonia and thus has an indirect impact on the growth prospects of the Estonian economy. The year 2010 was, in some ways, historic for European financial supervision. The Member States of the European Union, the European Commission and the European Parliament have agreed on a package of regulations under which three single supervisory authorities are to supervise banks, insurance undertakings and the securities market in the European Union since 2011: EBA in London, EIOPA in Frankfurt and ESMA in Paris. The European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB), composed of both central bank governors and supervisors, has started work with the European Central Bank. The main role of these supervisory authorities is to develop European Union rules on financial markets and to stand up for their uniform implementation by Member States' supervisory authorities and, in exceptional cases, to carry out financial supervision directly, so-called across Member States. The decision-making powers of the new supervisory authorities have been conferred on the Council of 27 Member States' supervisory heads, whose work is coordinated by the Governing Board. I have been elected to ESMA's six-member board with a 30-month mandate. In addition to the changes in the supervisory structure, euro area leaders have agreed on the establishment of EFSF, capable of providing loans to Member States in distress, if necessary, on agreed terms of up to EUR 750 billion. All these steps are designed to reduce the likelihood of financial crises occurring and, where necessary, to provide significantly more operational and effective ways to deal with the consequences of financial crises, to ensure that financial markets also function in stress situations. The new supervisory architecture in Europe is also about to get its own fireworks. In this way, the European Banking Authority (EBA) is currently in the process of carrying out a robust analysis of larger banking groups than Europe-wide, with a view to assessing banks' ability to withstand potential new crises. Strength analyses also include larger banking groups operating in Estonia at a consolidated level. At present, EBA is analysing the results of the stress tests and is expected to be published by banking group in the near future. Hopefully, these results will help to increase confidence in depositors and investors in the European banking sector. But it is not only a supervisory framework that is changing, there are also regulations that aim to improve the quality of capital and increase the volume of capital, to prevent or rather minimise the need for state intervention to support banks in distress with taxpayers' money. The new capital regulation framework Basel III, adopted by the Basel Committee and endorsed by the G20 leaders, contains a number of important amendments. The capital buffers of banks are thus increasing. Basel III provides that the capital requirement of banks will gradually increase, with additional capital buffers to limit excess capital payments and countercyclical capital buffers to offset the negative effects of excessive cyclicality of the economy. Additional capital requirements are being added to those banks that would be systemically important in their country of operation. The leverage ratio is being developed, which will more conservatively assess the adequacy of banks' capital. The limits on the bank's payment of ownership income as well as the bonus systems for bankers will also be specified. As a complement to important banking standards, liquidity standards are added, which must ensure both the short-term solvency of banks and the certainty of long-term sources of financing. As a whole, the aim of the changes is to increase banks' resilience to crises, improve the quality of their risk management and increase the responsibility of bank managers to take risks. Although it has been agreed that the Basel III package of amendments should enter into force in full by 2019 at the latest, the regulators of different jurisdictions and, of course, the capital markets do not expect the banking sector to have so much time to make changes. In the European Union, the European Commission, in cooperation with EBA, will be preparing for a gradual revision of the Banking Directive CRD in the coming years. The new role given to EBA and other ESAs in the development of binding technical standards should also be stressed here. While in the past supervision had only a consultative role, this amendment has also given them the role of regulator, since binding technical standards will be enforced as directly applicable European Commission regulations. Thus the responsibilities and tasks of the Financial Supervision Authority in our work in the European Supervisory Authorities are growing. Another important issue on the supervisors' desk is the preparation and subsequent implementation of the package of amendments to the capital regulation of the insurance sector, known as the Solvency 2 Directive. The aim of this directive is to clarify substantially the rules at the most general level in order to harmonise the basis for drawing up the balance sheets of insurance undertakings, to make capital calculations risk-based, to design the insurance undertakings' own risk and solvency assessment frameworks, to increase the accountability of senior management and to agree on the basis of supervisory assessments. The Solvency 2 Directive should be implemented from 2013 onwards and therefore preparations for its implementation are approaching the final stage. ESMA has an even wider range of topics on its desk. The most important thing here is to mention the new role of European securities supervision in direct supervision of credit rating agencies. This is also the only area in which the new European Supervisory Authority has been given a direct supervisory mandate in the internal market of the European Union. There will be regulation of alternative funds, as well as regulation of derivatives trading, central clearing and central depositaries, to name just a few issues. In order to better protect our interests, we have expanded our cooperation across borders. In addition to the usual day-to-day supervisory cooperation with regard to financial institutions operating in our market, our activity in finding cooperation partners and allies has increased considerably in addressing issues that are important for Estonia, from the election of the members of the governing bodies of the new Supervisory Authorities and the appointment of the leaders of permanent working groups to regulatory changes. In addition to the usual good cooperation with the Nordic countries, we are also significantly promoting cooperation with our Eastern and Central European counterparts. Although further cooperation also means increased administrative burden, the first experiences are encouraging. We can see that, above all, our role as an active mediator between the Nordic, Eastern and Central European countries gives our voice much more weight than we would ever have done on our own. Next, I would like to briefly mention the work of the Financial Supervision Authority for the purposes of the coming years. Our Council approved our strategy until 2015 in March this year. In our strategy, we have set the following objectives: Firstly, the introduction of higher standards for risk management by market participants, especially in the case of pension funds. Secondly, increasing our capabilities and impact, both in direct day-to-day supervisory cross-border cooperation and in the cooperation network of the European Supervisory Authorities. Thirdly, better protection of the interests of consumers of financial services, contributing to the establishment of a pre-trial dispute resolution institution for consumers of financial services and contributing to the promotion of financial literacy at national level. Fourthly, the prevention of market abuse through both increased due diligence of market participants and rapid and thorough handling of potential infringements. Dear listeners, With a few sentences, I will specify our strategic objectives and explain what concrete steps we are taking here. Firstly, the heightened standards against the background of financial market developments. The focus of the Financial Supervision Authority's attention has been on pension fund issues for years. For years, we have drawn attention to some of the weaknesses in the regulations in terms of rates, frequency of exchange of funds, risk management, etc. I am very pleased to note that most of the issues we have raised have been resolved by clarifying the regulations. At the same time, we have also looked seriously in the mirror ourselves and significantly enhanced the supervision of pension funds. We have created a risk-based supervisory model that will lead to much closer communication and control over the activities of pension fund managers. However, I must also mention the possible new bottleneck in the regulation of the second pension pillar. This concerns the pension payout phase. The first signals on the implementation of the payout regulation show that many aspects may not be understood by the public. In this way, the regulatory barrier has been set at a very low level, with little money accumulated in the second pillar, and people may be disappointed by the amount of supplementary pension provided by the second pillar. If the time of collection has been short and the savings accumulated are low, people should be given more opportunity to decide for themselves what to do with their savings than to make them compulsory to conclude an insurance undertaking's pension contract. Competition between insurance companies in relation to mortality tables for life expectancy may also be questionable, as it does not allow people to make an unambiguous assessment of the costs of the services of different life insurance companies. This topic will certainly remain in the interest of the Financial Supervision Authority for years. Although it was the year 2010 for the Estonian economy to exit from the crisis, this does not mean that capital supervision issues had to be given less attention than before. Our attention was focused both on analysing the quality of banks' loan portfolios and on assessing the adequacy of capital buffers. With regard to the changeover, we have paid and continue to pay significantly more attention to the management of liquidity risks in banks. On a regular basis, we conduct strength analyses to assess the banks' ability to withstand new crises. The activities of banks in managing their conflicts of interest in realising or managing the assets of bankrupt companies were and will continue to be the subject of increased attention. Among other things, last year we thoroughly checked the activities of banks in dealing with failing customers. As a result of one of the inspections, the Financial Supervision Authority established a code of "Responsible borrowing requirements' which specifies the bank's obligations for the borrower in providing warnings on pre-contractual information and risks associated with loans and in calculating a reasonable loan burden for the client. Speaking of developments in the Estonian financial market, it should be noted that the subsidiaries of foreign banks here are moving towards an increasingly hidden branching process, which may ultimately result in the abandonment of consolidated groups and the disappearance of regional control centres. The aim of the banks is to create as horizontal a structure as possible, where all major management decisions are taken at the head office and the role of local management decreases. Such a business strategy may, as one way of doing so, lead to the conversion of subsidiaries into branches. However, the current strategic developments in relation to the restructuring of banking groups have not in the near future supported the conversion of subsidiaries into branches. The main reason for preventing the conversion into branches is the specific nature of Estonian tax laws. Possible changes to tax rules may therefore give additional impetus to the formation of banking branches. A second important impetus may be given to strategic changes at the level of the parent banks, such as mergers, which will result in a review of the business and organisational model to date, or a forced sale of part of the company. The share of Estonian capital-based banks in the market is currently marginal, their services meet market niche demand. The growth potential of these banks is limited by reduced access to resources and more expensive risk management. There is a growing trend that large banks are increasingly becoming local structural units for banking groups, while small banks become international by offering cross-border services or creating branches, resulting in cross-border risks becoming more important for small banks also in a situation where they have a marginal share in the external market. The second issue in our strategy is the importance of international cooperation. At the beginning of the speech, I made further mention of international cooperation. I will add two other important aspects. Thus, the development of close cooperation in the day-to-day work in the supervisory colleges of major financial groups operating on the Estonian market is increasingly one of our main priorities. There is no way to overestimate the importance of this work. We will continue to be active in joint Nordic-Baltic working groups on crisis management. We are led by a working group dealing with the issues of ending the insolvency of cross-border, problem banks, which is legally an extremely complex area. Returning to clarifying the strategic objectives, I would like to point out thirdly the area of protecting the interests of consumers in financial services. The regulations establishing the new European Supervisory Authorities provide, inter alia, for the protection of consumers' interests and their education in financial matters as one of the important financial supervisory obligations. I am pleased to note that the Ministry of Finance has recognised the importance of promoting financial literacy and coordinating cooperation between institutions at national level and has initiated the establishment of a national development plan for financial literacy. On the basis of a questionnaire developed by the OECD of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the Ministry of Finance commissioned a study 'Financial Literacy among Estonians' to measure the level of financial literacy of Estonian consumers and assess the situation. The study was carried out last October. The results of the survey suggest that the ability of the Estonian people to make intelligent decisions in their finances is relatively low. People's knowledge of financial matters is, in their opinion, inadequate. Up to 65% of those questioned do not know how to defend their rights to financial institutions and where to turn if problems arise. 60% of respondents do not set longer financial targets; 44% say money is for spending, not saving. The Financial Supervision Authority has worked with several organisations to introduce financial literacy issues to different target groups, including the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Estonian Banking Association, the Tallinn Stock Exchange and others, to name only the main partners. Lastly, with regard to the new strategy of the Financial Supervision Authority, I would like to mention the prevention of market abuse and the intimidation of potential market abusers. In our work, we try to explain more about the risk of market abuse to society as a whole. As a general rule, we publish the penalties decided by the Financial Supervision Authority and the results of the procedures to an extent that does not undermine the procedure or is not prohibited by law. We want to continue to contribute, in the form of know-how, to criminal proceedings initiated on the basis of our reports. We will continue to work with the Ministry of Finance and Justice to significantly increase the level of financial penalties for offences in the financial sector. If necessary, we will develop guidelines for the Financial Supervision Authority to prevent possible violations of financial intermediation. We also support developments that would increase the efficiency of the handling of abuses in the financial sector in the police department and the prosecutor's office. We want to offer short-term placements in the inspection of the employees of these institutions in order to improve their knowledge of the functioning of the financial sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U114	Good waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U115	Yeah, 30 seconds. Looking back to last year, in the securities markets, we continued a rigid policy to combat potential market abuse. We thoroughly checked the adequacy of the internal organisation of market participants in the provision of investment services. We have also monitored and closely monitored what is happening on the securities market in order to detect possible infringements. Last year, we sent four reports of crimes to the Northern Circuit Prosecutor's Office. In summary, financial regulation and supervision live in times of change. As financial supervision in Estonia, we do our best to be an active part of change rather than a tail jogger. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U116	Thank you! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question relates to the activities of institutions dealing with so-called fast-lending schemes, such as SMS loans. How do you assess such loan schemes, and are you going to clean up this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U118	Thank you for your question. The problems of issuing fast-track loans are currently not within the competence of the Financial Supervision Authority. This issue is covered by the Consumer Protection Board, if any. We do not intend to extend our mandate in this regard, and at least it is not known that anyone would want to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U119	Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask you for a possible assessment of the Financial Supervision Authority as compared to the recent situation where there were very unpredictable credit addicts in the home loan market, not only in Estonia, but also elsewhere in the world. Are we better prepared for the next possible building and loan boom in the situation now? Does the Financial Supervision Authority, for example, see any need for additional regulation in the activities of banks or how to assess this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U121	Thank you for your question. I partly answered this question in my report when I referred to our new guide on responsible lending, which makes it much clearer that one point of the Credit Institutions Act is about responsible lending. It talks about what information, what form and warnings the bank should provide to its future client and how thoroughly it and the client should analyse the customer's solvency in the event of possible changes in life, it is a loss of job, or whatever it is that it is possible to bear the credit burden in one way or another, even if such negative events occur. In that sense, we're definitely a little bit more prepared. In other words, the question is, to which this OECD study also referred, that people's knowledge of financial issues remains very low. We consider it extremely important that the national strategy on financial literacy is adopted as soon as possible in order to better coordinate the activities currently carried out every day by the Financial Supervision Authority, the stock exchange, market participants themselves, and perhaps to some extent by other public authorities. I think it's a very long way to go here and a lot more to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U122	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U123	Thank you, honourable waitress, for this interesting presentation. You mentioned the second pillar of pension. In fact, in certain cases the processing of the second pillar could be more flexible, there is no need to direct people to enter into contracts automatically. What exactly did you mean, what does that mean? What is your specific idea or recommendation to Parliament to liberalise, under certain circumstances, the possibility of using the second pillar, say, in the event of retirement age?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U124	In any case, as I referred to in my report, this requires further analysis of the development of practice. If a professional jargon is used, the question is simply in a situation where money is scarce, i.e. the sum of savings for people who have been in the second pillar for a very short time or who have had very low incomes, is relatively small when they reach retirement age, and the life insurance company makes an annuity offer on this basis. Recently, when the first cases reached the press, a respected professor at a technical university calculated that he could buy himself a cup of coffee every month for his second pillar pension. This raises the question of whether such a system, in the form of an 'additional pension', makes sense. Rather, in such cases, it might be more reasonable to give people the opportunity to withdraw this money by paying income tax to the State, and to use this money in a different way, rather than forcing a person to sign an annuity agreement. Here we need to consider what is the reasonable limit, whether the bar is now placed in the right place, or whether an increase in the amount of the supplementary pension provided by the second pillar is important to cover future living costs and when it may become a forced move with marginal effects as an additional income.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U125	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U126	My question, too, is motivated by the same subject. What are the public relations opportunities of the Financial Supervision Authority, do you have people for this? In response to the honourable professor, it would have been enough to explain that the second pillar should be viewed as the first one. In the case of the first pillar, we do not require that if someone turns 63, their expected pension must be paid out on a daily basis. No one has that kind of hope, but in the case of the second pillar, there is. What are the opportunities of the Financial Supervision Authority to educate people so that they feel more confident in their dealings with financial institutions? Do you have people like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U127	The answer again consists of two components. First of all, as far as our clean, say, media communication capabilities are concerned. I think we have it. But when we talk about dealing with people's problems and informing people, educating them more widely, we come to the issue of financial literacy. I think that not only the efforts of the Financial Supervision Authority, but also the efforts of the other institutions that have been called upon by the State, are necessary there. When we are talking about the second pillar, I think it is very important that this information is shared by the Ministry of Finance, who is the so-called owner of this problem, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs, i.e. pension agencies and whatever institutions. There is a very thorough and detailed analysis and information on what people can do when they reach retirement age, what they should do, where there are options that mean different choices for them. I don't think people have enough of that information. Therefore, this is not only a question of an information campaign by the Financial Supervision Authority, but rather a state information campaign aimed at future pensioners who have joined the second pillar of the pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U128	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U129	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I recently read that pension funds spend a great deal of retirement money. Is there a plan to set a percentage rate? Is there any such practice in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U130	Thank you for your question. I admit that it is difficult for me to answer this question because I did not read the news and it is difficult to answer if I do not know exactly what to answer. When we talk about the activities of management companies in the management of mandatory second-pillar pension funds, the rates are regulated at national level as maximum rates. Therefore, management companies cannot withdraw more money as service charges than is permitted by law. When we talk about the yield of pension funds, or the result of their investment portfolio, it depends very much on the situation on the world financial markets. As markets rise, the return on pension funds is generally more positive when markets fall, and this tends to be reflected in the productivity of the second pillar funds. I guess we should know the difference between what we're talking about. When we talk about costs, it is very clear how many fees can be charged by management companies. I don't see a big problem here. Another thing is productivity. We cannot intervene here because the investment risk is inevitably borne by the unit-holders of the fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U131	No further questions. I thank you for your report and your answers. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We are done dealing with item 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U132	We are going to the 15th item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I will give the floor to a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Democrats have developed a draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act. The aim of the draft is to reduce the number of children living in poverty, to support the full development of all children and to contribute to increasing confidence in families with children. The purpose of family allowances is to ensure that all families with children receive part of the cost of caring for, raising and studying their children. All children are equal and have the right to equal treatment. The universal family benefit system supports the principle that every child is valuable, reduces inequality and prevents child labelling. In essence, the universal family benefit system is the preventative and most effective way to reduce poverty. The direct costs of this support are higher, but the costs of administration are much lower. Monthly child benefit supports children throughout their child's life and helps parents plan their child's costs in the long term. Estonian family policy has been described internationally as a family policy aimed at birth. This means that family policy measures are mostly oriented towards the birth of a child and the birth of a child. However, since family life does not begin or end with the birth of a child but lasts for the entire life of a person, it is necessary to pay more attention to later years of growth. The birth of a child and the first months or years of life may be insured, but if, as a child grows up and grows up, he or she does not have the means to acquire education, to pursue an interest in education and to use health services, but the parents cannot participate in the labour market or ensure the economic livelihood of the family, then the national policies supporting the quality of life of families and the sustainability of the population do not have a long-term perspective and do not have a positive impact. The key objectives of family and population policy are therefore not only the number of children born each year, but ultimately also the health of children, the development and growth environment, education and social skills, the family relationships surrounding them, opportunities for education and self-development, preparation for entry into the labour market, readiness to start living together and create a family, and other factors. As I have already said, Estonia's family policy has so far focused on supporting births and raising children of adult age has been neglected as necessary. Parental benefit costs more money than other family benefits combined. The state allocates EUR 70 million per year for child benefit, which is paid until the child reaches the age of age, while the amount of parental benefit paid for only a year and a half is more than EUR 170 million. Faith, as if it were enough to support families with one and a half years of state support, is naive. Child benefit has remained unchanged since 2004. But if we look back in time, what could be bought at the time for 300 kroons? That was a lot. If we ask ourselves what can now be bought for a child with EUR 19, I think you all agree that this is very little. The share of family benefits in GDP has decreased twice in ten years. It was 1.4% in 2000, around 0.7% in 2011 (this does not include parental benefit). At the same time, we read in the programme of action of the Government Union the threat of taking this money away from children and of making family allowances on a need-based basis. Although parents would like two or three children (statistically it makes 2.2 children), the average birth rate is 1.63 children. The survey 'Estonian birth factors 2008' shows that real behaviour can be helped primarily by the tangible support felt by the state, the availability of childcare and the knowledge that a parent or a single parent who has lost his job can raise their children and provide them with a full childhood and good education. In Estonia, the number of families with one child is the highest among the recipients of income support. According to the study "The impact of family financial support on poverty reduction in Estonia," carried out in 2007 by the Centre for Policy Studies in Praxis, financial support for families reduces the proportion of children living in poverty. European experience also shows that child poverty is less common in countries with universal family benefits. When raising subsidies, poorer families spend more on their children, but in wealthier families, the probability of the next child's birth increases. Experience in the coming countries shows that there is a positive link between the birth rate and the share of national family benefits in GDP. For example, in Finland, Denmark and Sweden, where the number of children per woman is one of the highest in the European Union, the share of family benefits in GDP is also one of the highest. In Finland and Sweden, family benefits account for 3% of GDP and in Denmark as much as 3.8%. The share of family benefits and parental benefits in Estonia is 1.7% of GDP in the 2011 budget, including family benefits without parental benefits 0.7%. With the draft, the Social Democrats wish to amend § 5 (3) of the State Family Benefits Act. According to the current law, child benefit for the first and second child of the family is currently paid at double the rate of child benefit for the third and each subsequent child at six times the rate of child benefit. The draft harmonises the rates of child benefit and sets the amount of child benefit for all children at six times the rate of child benefit. When the bill is adopted as a law, the economic livelihood of the 166000 Estonian family will improve. The triple of the child benefit paid for the first and second children of the family increases the cost of the state by 109 million euros per year. By the time the law enters into force, we have subscribed to the draft by 1 January 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U134	Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U135	Thank you. Honourable waitress! So far, the support system has paid more attention to families with children. The emphasis is on higher benefits in families with more children. Harmonisation is currently taking place. Did you not consider the possibility that families with more children should receive more support?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U136	Thank you. There are a number of benefits that are only for families with children. However, increasing child benefit for the first and second children will in any case also support families with children and help to reduce poverty in these families.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U137	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U138	Thank you. I have a question like that. While you have indicated the costs of implementing the law, have you considered and discussed which sector this money would come from? Perhaps where does this extra money come from in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U139	Thank you. I hope you agree with me that the money will never be sorry for the children. If we look at the state budget for next year, I would like to see if the government coalition will be able to find money in the state budget to support children.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U140	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft amendment to § 5 of the State Family Benefits Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group on 6 June. The draft law was presented to the Commission by Commissioner Heljo Pikhof as the representative of the initiator. The aim of the draft is to increase the monthly allowance for the first and second children, as you have heard. The Government of the Republic decided not to support the proceeding. The decision was presented to the Commission by Katre Pall, Head of the Social Security Department's Policy on Benefits and Benefits. The Social Affairs Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 11 be placed on the plenary agenda for the first reading of the Riigikogu on 16 June (this was a consensual decision), to propose that the plenary assembly stop the first reading (by 5, with 0 abstentions) and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 July 2011 at 16:00. The Commission's rapporteur is Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Commission. A debate was also held in the Commission, largely on the basis of the government's views. The government noted two main issues in its negative position. Firstly, the initiative is a very positive one, namely an increase in the resources for children's benefits and measures for families and children, but it was also stated that there is currently no such amount as EUR 109 million in the area of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The second issue that was addressed was how effective it is to channel such an additional resource for the first and second children, as statistics now show that families with three or more children and single-parent families are primarily living near the poverty line and below the poverty line. When asked how the government intends to address these problems, which are primarily related to the situation of children, the government intends to carry out an analysis of the family benefit scheme by 2014 and to draw up a concept of benefits and services for families with children. But, as I said, the Commission decided to conclude the first reading of this draft in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U142	Thank you. You have questions. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U143	Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Thank you, of course, to the Committee on Social Affairs for concluding the first reading of this draft! But once again, in the government's position, the view is that the government is developing a complex solution. It happens, as you remember from your fine political career, very often that someone is proposing to do something, but on top of that, the government says that it is working on a complex solution. Please, tell me if you remember any complex solutions that have come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U144	There have been complex solutions. I think, good questioner, when you were also a minister, very serious complex solutions were achieved in the social field. We will certainly find good solutions in recent history.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U145	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U146	Thank you. Good waitress! Did I hear correctly that this complex solution will be completed in 2014?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U147	The government's position states that the government plans to carry out an analysis of the family benefit scheme by 2014 and to draw up a concept of benefits and services for families with children. That's correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U148	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! When does your committee intend to prepare for a second reading when the Commission has received amendments, whether this year it will do so or whether it is waiting for the Government's integrated proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U150	Thank you, good questioner! The Commission will certainly discuss the following steps of procedure, at what pace we are moving forward. But I think the good news is that this bill is going to stay in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U151	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U152	Thank you. I would also like to begin by thanking the Committee on Social Affairs for supporting this draft. I very much hope that this will not end, that you will continue to support it. However, as regards the government's concern that so many benefits are provided for the first and the second children, I would remind you that the third and fourth children will not be born if the first or the second children are not born. It is therefore very important to support the birth of the first child. Very many single - child and single - parent families face challenges. But I am very saddened by the government's view that a complex solution will be developed by 2014 and then looked at further. How are these families supposed to survive until then? There's a lot of time to do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U153	Thank you. I'm not taking any stand for the government here right now. I am here, above all, as chairman of the committee. These issues, which relate specifically to families and children, have already been addressed in the Commission and will certainly be discussed further. They are not only linked to specific first and second child benefits. I'm sure there's work to be done here. This area is very broad. I cannot make promises here or comment on possible steps by the government. However, these were the opinions on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U154	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U155	Thank you. This is perhaps not a question directly related to this draft, but still: has the Committee on Social Affairs ever discussed or would discuss the question of whether school food subsidies could not be one of the sub-categories of family benefits rather than one of the types of expenditure support for the education system?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U156	Thank you, good questioner! This is not directly related to this draft, as you said, but we do know that there are different opinions as to whether school food is more related to education policy or social policy. But I don't want to open up school food here. It is currently under discussion in the second Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U157	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U158	The question comes from the question of my good colleague. During the debate on today's second item, when there was the final vote on the draft Income Tax Act, I called on the MPs not to support this draft because, for example, they cannot increase child support. Now we are discussing the Family Benefits Act and the same MP who voted in favour of the Income Tax Act asks where the money comes from. That's the question! What can we do to make people realize that these things are connected?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U159	Good questioner! Hopefully, the Estonian economy will improve and the income of the Estonian state will also increase. When we look at the first quarter of this year, we see that the figures are good. I hope you can do all the good things.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U160	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U161	Thank you. Dear waitress, Can you confirm from this speaker that we will be discussing this draft in the Committee on Social Affairs in the autumn? After all, the fact that the draft does not simply go under pressure depends largely on the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U162	Good questioner! I think we will proceed as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure Act. First, we wait for the deadline for proposing amendments, and then we move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U163	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U164	Thank you. I ask your opinion: how much more should the economy grow so that this money can develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U165	If you ask my opinion, I say one thing is the existence of money, but the other thing is where we put the money. Money's never gonna be too much. After all, even in the most prosperous countries, subsidies are never sufficient. I think that although the 'complex solution' sounds strange to some people, we actually need to look at this whole area more complexly. We cannot focus on increasing or not increasing only one support. Certainly, additional resources in this area, especially for families who have decided to raise children, are very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U166	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U167	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is this: how much does the economy have to rise so that children can have enough money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U168	Thank you, good questioner! I hate to say that the Estonian state is in good shape in terms of subsidies for children, but we have supported families and children. The question is how to do it, during which period and to what extent. It's always a point of dispute. I would remind you that even in the most difficult times, the cuts in subsidies in this area were, however, minimal or almost non-existent. In Estonia, I think that, for all of us here too, regardless of whether we belong to the coalition or the opposition, the issue of families and children is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-16_U169	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 11 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to draft 11 on 4 July 2011 at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 15th item is also closed. Dear colleagues, let me say a few words. Our great natural resources run along the path set for him. The beautiful spring of Estonia is about to become a young summer, his victory flame with the fascination of the fire will give Estonia, our homeland, only its own brilliance, and we will sincerely rejoice over it. Together with spring, we started our four-year journey here in this house, together with spring we grew up, and we managed to do the necessary things. Thank you all so much for that. The summer ahead means that we work in groups and individually. To that end, I wish you strength and health! Let us not ignore the word of wisdom on the Angel Bridge of Tartu, 'Cleanness restores strength'. A beautiful, industrious and healing summer! Today's trial is over. Thank you! Good luck in your work! [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 1.46 p.m.
