ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the fourth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the 2006 draft law on the ratification of the International Tropical Timber Treaty, in the course of the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu, is represented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment of the Government of the Republic. Secondly, the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act, the State Fees Act and the Ports Act, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U3	Thank you. Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U4	We, the seven social democrats of the Riigikogu, are today forced to submit an inquiry to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal last week from the Pärnu County Court that the proceedings were closed on 26 May at the request of the prosecutor in the criminal case of the domestic violence of Toivo Kuldmäe, Head of the Kihnu Veeed AS. The prosecutor found that this is a second-degree crime in which the accused is not guilty, and because it is a conflict within the family, there is no public procedural interest to continue the proceedings. As early as 2005, gentlemen, Gold Mountain was sentenced to parole for the same reason, during which he attacked his wife and child at least five times during his probationary period. The court records show that this is an unstoppable beater who is capable of attacking women and children just for the sake of the television platform and who can cause serious injuries. However, the Court considered it necessary to provide the parties with a conciliation procedure. According to sociologist Iris Pettai, the prosecutors and judges held the so-called moderate domestic violence ten years ago... Gentlemen, can we have some quiet? I'll keep going. According to sociologist Iris Pettai, prosecutors and judges considered "moderate domestic violence" another ten years ago, when the victim was not beaten to death or disabled, to be a domestic dispute where the state should not intervene. In the meantime, it seemed that such an attitude had disappeared, but the current case clearly proves that the old concepts and former thinking were back. This is a very dangerous trend, as the perpetrator is given a clear message that the Estonian state does not care if family relations with fists are cleared at home. As long as the victim is not beaten to death or crippled, everything is allowed and no one will punish the perpetrator. That is what our question is about: is combating domestic violence a priority in our country or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U5	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 14 members of the Central Party Group shall submit an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, regarding the feasibility of the Climate and Energy Agency. Many know that 86 million kroons were allocated to the second Climate and Energy Agency with an additional budget in 2009. This was a very unexpected move in this context, and the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi said that he, too, does not know what kind of animal this Climate and Energy Agency is. There have been scandals about certain activities of the Climate and Energy Agency. Auditor General Mihkel Oviir has also drawn attention to all these activities. Marek Strandberg, the Chairman of the Agency's Advisory Board, has said and continues to say that the Agency has done well, has done its work and has launched several programmes, such as an apartment building renovation programme and an electric car programme. We believe that the activities of the Climate and Energy Agency overlap in part with those of an institution such as KredEx. This failure has now also been recognised by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, who has said that he and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have finally realised that the activities of the Climate and Energy Agency require a detailed overview and analysis, and that he has suspended additional commitments from the Climate and Energy Agency. We have four substantive questions for the Minister, to which we are awaiting an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their further processing within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed lead committees: Social Democratic Party Group. a Draft Act amending § 33 of the Tax Administration Act, initiated on 21 April, of which the commission is the Finance Committee, and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. a draft law on the amendment of the Liquid Fuel Act, initiated on 21 April 2004, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have forwarded an inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Last Thursday, an Orthodox Envoy Group was formed, an Ambassador's Association for the Protection of Human Rights in the North Caucasus and a Parliamentary Group for Estonia-Turkmenistan. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in the Chamber to set up a support group for natural shrines. The caller is Tõnis Lukas. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 94 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 7. Dear Riigikogu! Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. There's a little bit of a clarification. The Committee on Monetary Affairs proposes to change the order of the fourth item on the agenda tomorrow, of the rapporteurs for the debate on public finances: the first will be by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, then Deputy Governor of Eesti Pank Märten Ross, and lastly by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee. With this addition, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 91 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U8	Since there is no answer to questions today, please register for an appearance in a free microphone after my hammer kick! Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the sunny spring weather outside, I have a serious problem in this hall today. This concerns us all, and we have heard about this before in this Chamber. I am talking once again about the planned and now completely unpredictable rise in electricity prices in the coming years. I have had the honour of being here in the Riigikogu for a few days less than a month, but in this little time I have realized that there is no or rather no willingness to provide substantive answers to this issue. When good Prime Minister Ansip answered the question of Mr Kaljuvee a few weeks ago about whether another 13% increase in the network charges of Eesti Energia was justified, he said he would not make his assessment until the Competition Authority. As a television watcher, I can clearly remember that before the elections, he had considered this increase to be emotionally obsessive. I liked that frankness, that was commendable. But in this Chamber, I heard a statement that this was only due to the fact that either the application was poorly drafted or 19% instead of 13%. I don't think anyone at his government press conference figured it out that way. By now, however, the Competition Authority has approved the price increase, and I can understand from the Prime Minister in a few days' time, on Wednesday. But in addition to the increase in prices and the uncertainty that the free electricity market will bring about in 2013, I would like to draw attention to the letter that I, along with my colleague Laas, sent to Auditor General Oviir. The National Audit Office is an auditor of the state who examines whether public money has been used efficiently, sustainably, efficiently and effectively and, of course, lawfully. It is also responsible for assessing whether the government's actions are sufficient to ensure that taxpayers' money is used in a targeted and practical way and whether the reports provide an adequate picture of the spending of the money and its effectiveness. On the basis of the above, I consider it extremely important that the state's energy monopoly treats electricity consumers fairly and responsibly. In this context, we wanted to draw attention to the investment activities of Eesti Energia. All investments are, of course, justified in order to ensure a high-quality service for the Estonian electricity consumer. It is known that Eesti Energia is active in investing abroad, be it projects in Jordan or the USA, for example. The public knows little about the financing of these projects, nor about the contribution of the Estonian taxpayer to these projects, and how fair it is given the current poor economic situation. In the light of the above and taking into account the public's strong interest in Eesti Energia's activities in connection with large investments abroad, we asked the Auditor General to start auditing the investment activities of Eesti Energia as soon as possible in order to explain how reasonable the investments of the company are in the light of the economic situation prevailing in Estonia. I call on all of you not only to think along and talk about it, but also to act on it, because I believe that the price of electricity and its future are really very important for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Vakra. I would like to ask my colleague in the chair, Lauri Laas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U11	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will essentially continue on the same subject as Rainer Vakra spoke about. I am talking about a letter that I sent to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir, along with my colleague Vakra, and in which we called on the National Audit Office to pay attention to the rather dim investment policy of Eesti Energia. In fact, for a long time now, we have been talking about too high the price of electricity, which is oppressing our people, making their daily livelihood more difficult. However, it seems that the coalition led by Ansip does not see anything unusual in this difficult situation for a person, where most of the family's budget is spent on electricity. The constant increase in electricity prices has become a routine part of everyday life. With prices, we have long been in Europe. But what about human coping? As we heard on the weekend, the Reform Party has also washed its hands of the promise to bring Estonia to the richest five countries. Personally, I cannot accept such a government attitude. That is why I am standing here today to draw attention once again to the price of high-spurting electricity. It is our common concern to call on the government to reason, to review the share of electricity taxes and to control network charges, because the increase in electricity prices will inevitably be followed by an increase in other prices. In this regard, last week I, together with Rainer Vakra, submitted a referral to the Auditor General, who should analyse the activities of Eesti Energia in shaping the price of electricity as soon as possible, especially in the context of the company's deep suspicions and disquieting foreign investments. Namely, Estonia Energia is concerned about too bold and, at first glance, the unwise behaviour with the money collected from the taxpayer. Unfortunately, we have no idea what our role as electricity consumers is in these foreign investments. There are a number of questions. How long will the local taxpayer be able to pay off the ambitions of one weak council and a crafty monopoly company? What is Sandor Liive and Juhan Parts' real objective in overinvestment? I am thinking, for example, of the extremely expensive remote readers of electricity consumption, which the consumer does not feel warm or cold about, but the hearts of those who supply these gadgets to Eesti Energia probably leap out of joy. A legitimate question arises as to where is the limit of discretion in investing. The National Audit Office certainly has both competence and resources to analyse this topic. Unfortunately, the National Audit Office cannot be prescribed what, when and how to audit, because it is up to them to decide. That is why the purpose of our referral is to draw the attention of the National Audit Office to the constantly rising electricity price and its justification in the light of foreign investments. The hope of an objective approach is that until now the Auditor General has had enough courage to point the finger at the problems that need to be responded to urgently. The Auditor General has also raised energy-related problems in the Riigikogu, which is an insufficient development plan for the electricity economy until 2018 and in 2013 due to the opening of the electricity market. Unless the government has a clear understanding of what it will cost the country and, above all, the taxpayer, it will be called into question. The government has removed itself from responsibility by getting behind the so-called independent regulator, but we are well aware that the competition authority under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has so far not been a matter of curbing monopolies. On a few occasions, the monopoly has been put on a price increase request for the purpose of making a show, but later the scoop has been slashed and the price increase request has been signed with two hands. At the same time, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, has said the very right idea that a reduction in electricity prices is essential to curb inflation, as all other prices are largely linked to the price of electricity and, in his view, it is also important to lower the price of electricity in order to mitigate the overall price increase. It is clear that the main role of Andrus Ansip's government is in the price increase involving Estonian society as a whole. Andrus Ansip and Eesti Energia have become the engine of price increases. It should not be expected that they will understand how difficult they are actually putting the people of Estonia at the expense of rising electricity prices and the resulting increase in other prices. Both the anti-human government and the present have obviously not yet been seen during the period of Estonian independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Laas. Please, colleague Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I invite you, on behalf of myself, Juku-Kalle Raid and the initiators of the support group for other natural shrines, to think of times when the price of electricity was not fixed and this was not a topic at all. I urge you to think of times when electricity was not deliberately produced, but there were important things that people thought about. In fact, traditions and customs have spread from generation to generation. We, as we dress in this age and taste the benefits we taste, should think about how to get along with nature, how to understand nature, because then nature understands us too. Human settlement and everything we do are actually placed in the history and future of this country as one small detail, although important to us. That is why we need to think of bigger processes and more important things than daily tears. I call on you to join the support team for natural shrines. The opening meeting of this group will be held here at the first bench on the wall.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-02_U14	Thank you, Mr Lukas. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.21 p.m.
