ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Good fellows! We will begin the session of the first working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Speaking chair, Kadri Samson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U2	Dear Riigikogu! On behalf of myself and 12 colleagues, I am going to refer an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. And just as one of the tasks of the Riigikogu is to monitor the rational use of the Estonian state's money by ministers, this inquiry is included in this purpose and concerns the wish of Eesti Post to buy Express Post, which has lost its turnover in recent years. At the moment, this merger is still behind the clearance of the Competition Authority. The point is that two years ago it was decided to open the Estonian postal market and such a merger would limit the competition that arose. We have also been cautious about this practice, which became a part of private companies when, at the time, permits were granted to private channels. We therefore want a more detailed explanation as to why the public undertaking has made such a decision, why it has been considered useful. For example, itella Corporation, which operates on the postal market, from Finland, considered such a transaction to be unusable and discontinued because it was asked for too high a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U3	There's no more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings. Let's go to the messages now. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Chancellor of Justice. Good fellows, we're conducting a presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U4	We will begin the processing of the agenda items on 15 September. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Audit Office Act and the Audit Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. So we can go to the preparation of the final vote. Dear colleagues, since the approval of the 58th draft requires a majority of the members of the Riigikogu, we will carry out a verification of presence before the final vote. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. I will put draft 58 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. Draft 58 of the Act amending the State Audit Office Act and the Audit Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first point is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U5	We will go to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 16 of the Road Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U6	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In April of this year, the Social Democratic Party Group submitted a draft amendment to § 16 of the Road Act. We submitted the draft shortly after the Riigikogu elections this year. I remember election debates where, regardless of political affiliation, local authorities were allowed to significantly improve the funding of road works, and that is why we came up with our initiative in April. The draft was based on the need to improve the financing of the storage of local roads. The change we have proposed would give local authorities the assurance that there will also be amounts for local roads in the national budgets of the coming years, which will make up a specific part of the money used to store road fuel excise duties. The task of local authorities is to ensure the maintenance of local roads, but in order to fulfil this obligation, the State must guarantee that there is a relevant revenue base in local budgets. We know the difficult winters of recent years, including the extraordinary abundance of snow, which has made it considerably difficult to ensure that roads can be driven normally. Local authorities have not had enough money in recent times to carry out the maintenance necessary to ensure the driveability of roads, including the opening of roads from the snow. Another problem is that, as the current system of financing for local road transport is maintained, the status of roads without black cover is becoming worse and worse. If they are not adequately maintained, this will in the near future require a considerable cost of repairing roads. I will also mention the reference data concerning the financing of state roads and local roads. Between 1 January 2005 and 1 March 2009, the Road Act fixed the minimum share of the proceeds of excise duties on fuel to be allocated to municipalities. Unfortunately, the law currently in force does not contain this provision. This has led to a threefold reduction in the corresponding amounts over the last financial years compared to 2007/2008. the financial year. The sums allocated for the maintenance of the state roads and streets vary almost. Please listen! 15 times. Local roads and streets will receive just over 300 euros per kilometre this year, national roads will receive 4361 euros per kilometre. This proportion is not justified and this draft law seeks to fix a flat rate in order to ensure stable financing for local authorities for the maintenance and repair of local roads. On our proposal, the law should enter into force on 1 January next year, which should allow for changes due to this law, taking into account the process of preparing the 2012 state budget. There have been opinions that if we increase the amounts allocated to local roads, then national roads will lose that amount. The Government of the Republic has also referred to this in its reply. You can't quite agree with that. I think the Estonian state is one whole. Local authorities and the roads they care for are as important as state roads. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support our draft and to finish our first reading so that we can move on with the subject already this autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U7	Thank you! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are still questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U8	Thank you. Good colleague! I remember the years 2005 and 2006, when we did all this in the coalition. The Ministry of Finance was happy to take the initiative. There are a large number of local government leaders in the current composition who know how badly the road situation needs to be improved. What do you think is the reason why they don't want to support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U9	Whether they want to support or not, it will probably be clear after some time when the Commission's accompanying report is also presented. I may be in a hurry to wait for the Commission's co-rapporteur, but I dare to tell you that yesterday, at the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, there was unanimous support for this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U10	First of all, my warm congratulations to the next questioner on today's birthday! Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U11	Thank you. Dear waitress, We have a local government support group in the Riigikogu, according to memory, I will also say this name. Has there been any discussion of this matter? Is there a position?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U12	As far as I know, this issue has been discussed and the position is that we should support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U13	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U14	Thank you. Dear waitress, You were right to say that the state's allocations have decreased. But do you have any information on how local authorities have behaved themselves? Has their funding remained at its former level, or has local authorities similarly reduced the amount of money going to roads in times of crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U15	I don't want to be original or non-original, but I could say so and so. Much depends on the local government's wallet. Some municipalities have not reduced the amount spent on roads for the simple reason that they have not been able to be reduced. The work had to be done, the snow had to be pushed away. However, those whose budget did not allow it at all gave way in this respect, just as the amount allocated by the State decreased.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U16	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U17	Thank you. Good colleague! How long do you expect this bill to wait for a second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U18	I sincerely hope that it will not be raised on the shelf and that it will not wait for the next few years, but will be processed further this month. I hope so!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U19	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, to clarify that the municipal forum was talking about 10% and the Minister for Economic Affairs expressed the opinion that 'if the budget allows'. But what I'm asking is, do you have any calculations at hand that such a change in money means directly compared to this year? How many euros is this 15%?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U21	As regards the discussion between the local authorities and the Regional Policy Support Group, the government could say its number there. Whether it's 10%, 15% or more, that's what we have to decide together in this Chamber. As far as the sums are concerned, I am not going to calculate millions of kroons into euros here, but I can tell you that if about 200 million Estonian kroons have been allocated to local roads in general this year, then 2007/2008. In 2006 it was just over 700 million Estonian kroons. The difference is half a billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U22	Good performer, thank you! No further questions. I ask Kalev Lillo, member of the Economic Commission, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an overview of the activities of the Economic Commission concerning the draft Act amending § 16 of the Road Act. The Committee on Economic Affairs has discussed this issue twice. It was first discussed on 13 June this year. Ain Tatter, Head of the Roads and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, had also been invited to attend. We also received the position of the Government of the Republic. I will bring out the three main arguments that were set out in the government's position. Firstly, it was urged to assume that according to the idea of the Road Act, state support is not the full and only amount of money for which local authorities should build and maintain you. It's help. Secondly, there was such an observation that in recent years the basic orientations of budgetary planning are such that revenue and expenditure should be decoupled rather than kept together in percentage terms so that revenue is directly related to expenditure. Thirdly, it was the view that it is necessary to build on current practice, where annual expenditure is agreed during the respective negotiations between local authorities and the Government of the Republic. A vote was also held on 13 June. It was decided to send the draft to the Plenary Session for a first reading on 15 September. There were 5 members of the Commission in favour, against 4. It was also proposed that the draft be rejected, as well as 5 votes in favour, 4 against. For the second time, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft yesterday. In yesterday's debate, it was decided, to be very brief, to close the first reading of the draft in order to proceed in order to discuss matters in substance. The decision was consensual. It was also decided to set the deadline for the submission of the draft 22 amendments at 12 noon on 29 September. This decision was also adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U24	Thank you, good waitress! You have at least one question. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said that the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue twice. The first time, it was decided to stop reading first and not to send the draft to second reading. During the second Commission debate, a cardinal change took place and it was decided to support the sending of the draft to second reading. In the meantime, what happened to the members of the Commission acting unanimously in favour of continuing the procedure on the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U26	What can I think? I think it was summer in the meantime, and all the members of the Commission got a little smarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U27	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am pleased that the Members of the Commission have gone very far on the roads of local authorities in the summer, perhaps from that to yesterday's decision. But, Kalev, you are part of the coalition and being a coalition politician, tell me how this bill will continue to live within the walls of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U29	Thank you for your question. Perhaps I do not understand any subtle hints of what I am a relatively inexperienced parliamentary politician, but, of course, it is our wish, as we said in the Commission yesterday, to discuss this matter in substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U30	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U31	Thank you. Good waitress! Your response shows that this bill has a strong hope of being adopted in the form proposed. This, in my opinion, is a pleasure for many local authorities, because, frankly, the financial resources for the storage of roads are rather limited. I want to wish you luck! I am pleased that the Members of the Commission have grown wiser in the meantime, so thank you very much for your support. I'm sure all the local authorities will thank you, too. Courage for you at second and third reading!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U32	Good fellows! As President, I have to say that we are currently in the middle of a round of questions. So if you've pressed the "Word" key, I hope you're beautiful or not. In addition to the lines, there must also be a question at the end. So, please, let's ask! Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U33	Let me ask you this: will this draft pass through second reading in the same form and will it be adopted as a law at third reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U34	That the bill will remain exactly that way, I cannot guarantee that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U35	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. I'll ask you a question. Am I right to understand that this draft will continue to be dealt with in such a way that the Commission has given the deadline for the amendments and, after that deadline, the Commission will discuss the proposals received and then decide what happens next? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U37	Yeah, good questioner, you got it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U38	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U39	Thank you. Did the Commission debate yesterday also mention dilution of the so-called draft, so that this percentage would not be 15, but another figure?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U40	Thank you for your question. We did not reach such a debate. This debate is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U41	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you explain to us where many of our ladies and gentlemen take the view that this draft is something very special, which, as it should not be proposed, cannot change in one direction or another in the course of further proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U43	Thank you, Väino! I can't answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U44	Indrek Iron, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U45	Thank you. My question relates to the question of Väino Linde. I think the initiators of some drafts consider Parliament to be a rubber stamp, which must not discuss any drafts they have tabled in substance or make any changes. Do you, in principle, consider such requests to Parliament justified or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U46	Thank you, Indrek! I'm having some trouble understanding your question, but of course we don't consider ourselves a rubber stamp.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U47	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask the representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U48	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I think today there has been talk of a very important draft in this Chamber. I guess the question is, what's the percentage supposed to be? How many municipalities have been able to put on road money themselves in the last two years does not depend solely on today's question of whether the 5% that has been in the budget so far is sufficient or not. We also have to look at the other side: after all, local governments have been much less separated from personal income tax in the last two years. So it is very logical that many municipalities have not had enough money to maintain or build their roads. What this percentage is going to be at second and third readings, none of us know today. After all, it is possible to propose amendments to the draft, and finally the same 101 people who sit in this Chamber will decide which law will eventually become. However, the Riigikogu could think and discuss the topic that local governments are the closest to our people and have to make important decisions. There is no way that snow will not be pushed for the farm gate or that the bus cannot drive to the school house because the road maintenance has not been completed. Perhaps it is time to think that any new Riigikogu meeting could discuss such matters as this draft. For example, what is the minimum percentage of the allocation of excise duties on fuel or how much personal income tax is guaranteed to municipalities in the next four years? This rate may always be higher in good financial years, but all councils must have confidence when they start discussing their own budget. Just as we will be discussing the state budget in September-October-November, local authorities will have exactly the same topic on the agenda at the same time. IRL certainly supports the view that local authorities must have more autonomy. We also support this draft. It should be clear how much money the local authorities receive from excise duties on fuel. What is the percentage going to be, I will repeat once again, after the proposals have been made and the Commission has discussed them and sent the draft to this Chamber for a second reading. The LAG and the Regional Policy Support Group have 42 members who proposed 10% instead of 15%. But it's all a matter of negotiation. It is important to take into account the current situation and the forecasts for the next few years for our economy and for the whole of Europe. In any case, the IRL Group supports the completion of the first reading. I wish you all a nice sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U49	Thank you! Please beg the representative of the Estonian Central Party faction of the speech chair of the Riigikogu. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't tell you whether this hot summer made us reconsider or whether the President of the Republic of Estonia's Monday speech here in the Riigikogu Hall for quite a long time he stopped on the topic of the budget of local governments. Financing of local government roads is one of the topics of the local government budget. In fact, it is not important to a national citizen whether he or she is driving along a state road or along a municipal road. It should be possible to travel equally well on both roads, and it is unlikely that our roads will be marked, that this is the route of the state and that this is the way of the local government. But in fact, the picture is still quite sad if we drive along the state road, from Tallinn to Tartu, for example, and if we go to Tartu or another city on alleys, it wouldn't be like an Estonian state. The opposition has presented this bill to the Riigikogu before. The last presentation was in February this year, when the Central Party Group came up with it. The best thing about this draft is that it does not require additional budgetary resources. It requires only the political will to distribute a certain amount of money differently and to decide how many percent go on national routes and how many percent go on local government roads. The difference now is 15 times the distance per kilometre, it still seems pretty absurd. It has been argued that national roads have a higher traffic density than local government roads. It hasn't been right for a long time. There are a lot of former mayors in this hall and they can claim that traffic on the central streets of cities is tens of times denser than on the Tallinn road. And the roads of the parishes also want to be maintained. There are some examples of rural municipalities where last winter's road saving expenditure increased four times as a result of a very snowy winter. Now, if the snow comes down suddenly in the fall, they may be in trouble, they don't have the money to save the roads. In fact, the fact is that in the meantime 40.46 million euros of road maintenance money were allocated to local authorities, but then the amount was reduced to 12.65 million, which is about four times. Here is another question, as well as an economic one: if they are not maintained in time, then it will cost more and more to repeat a mile of road. In summary, I thank coalition politicians for their understanding. We shouldn't be talking about the rubber stamp today. I very much hope that these positive figures for local authorities will also be reflected in next year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-15_U51	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 22 be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 12 noon on 29 September. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work. Closure of the sitting at 10.30 a.m.
