ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! Honourable guests! We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns investments by Eesti Energia. According to the forecast by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Eesti Energia will need EUR 1.15 billion in additional funding for investments in 2012-2015. According to the 2012 draft state budget, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has planned financing operations of EUR 156 million. Therefore, the entire investment needs, one billion euros, are not mentioned. According to the National Audit Office, there is no clarity that has already been calculated in the state budget of Eesti Energia with 156 million euros and plans to do with the missing one billion euros. The National Audit Office also complains that the future of Eesti Energia has still not been explained to the public or discussed in the government. According to Eesti Energia forecast, the investment volume will reach 487 million euros next year. In order to finance projects, Eesti Energia wants to take 500 million euros of long-term loans in the coming year. We want to know the impact of the grand investment plan of Eesti Energia on the Estonian budget, Estonian entrepreneurs and domestic consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U3	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair for Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and 11 other members of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to address Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. In the 2010 review of the utilisation and preservation of state assets, the National Audit Office draws attention to the land issue of rural municipalities and cities, which is entangled behind the completion of the land reform. In the process of completing the land reform, the focus will be on clarifying the relationship between land ownership and municipalisation. To this end, the Government of the Republic already approved in 2008 the principles for establishing a country's reserve for land, which sets out the list of countries from which the country's reserve for land is formed. However, the National Audit Office has found that the principles of establishing the state reserve of land are not transparent to the local governments. In fact, local governments have the impression that the country's land reserve will be formed at random, with the aim of fulfilling the sales plan and increasing the revenue of the state. In this regard, we have seven questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U5	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Environment Keit Pentus and the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. Good fellows! We're gonna do a presence check. 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U6	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We can start preparing the final vote. I will put draft 76 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 76 amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U7	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We can start preparing the final vote. I will put a bill of 80 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with one abstention. The draft law amending the radiation law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 80 has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U8	We have reached the third item, which is the debate on the 'Estonia's Human Development Report 2010/2011', which is of crucial importance. Before the debate, allow me, dear colleagues, to briefly introduce to you the procedure for this discussion, which follows from § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. First of all, the editor-in-chief of the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2010/2011' is Marju Lauristin's presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes. After that, there are questions and answers (up to 40 minutes). Mati Heidmets, editor of the Estonian Human Development Report 2010/2011, will follow (up to 15 minutes), following questions and answers (up to 25 minutes). Then Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will give a presentation (up to 10 minutes), followed by questions and answers (up to 10 minutes). A member of the Riigikogu may submit a total of up to two questions during the discussion. After the round of questions, as we have good practice, the round of negotiations begins. After the round of negotiations, we will not take a decision. At the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak to the representatives of the political groups and then to the other members of the Riigikogu who so wish. I am honoured to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, editor-in-chief of the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2010/2011' Marju Lauristin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U9	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear members of the Riigikogu! I am extremely pleased and honoured to be in front of you again with another report on human development. I'll start by thanking you. I would like to thank all those who have done this work: the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, the so-called organiser and publisher of this report, the President of the Republic, who has been the patron of this activity and participated in all discussions, and, of course, you, the Riigikogu, who have already taken up this matter for the fourth time. Indeed, what can be more important to Estonia than the lives of the Estonian people and the human development of Estonia, which reflects this. This year's Human Development Report is extraordinary. It is extraordinary because it is named as the Estonian Human Development Report, but it is actually a comparative analysis of the human development of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. This, of course, relates to the fact that we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the restoration of the independence of the Baltic States this year. Hence, the desire to look back is natural. If 20 years ago it was possible to ask ourselves and everyone else if we dare, want and can build an independent Estonian state in such a way that it is sustainable in the world, then today we can answer this question with this report on human development that yes, indeed, in 20 years we have been able to build our country in Estonia, as well as Latvia and Lithuania, despite all the difficulties, have done the same. At the same time, we have to ask that, when we spoke of the Baltic Way 20 years ago, obviously, whether we still share this path or whether we have now reached the road branch, where Estonia is going its own path and Latvia and Lithuania's own path. The entire text of the report is available to you and you have seen its structure. All I'm saying is that there are 35 players, about a third of them are Latvian and Lithuanian authors. There are also some outsiders. All authors are responsible for their texts independently and personally. Latvian and Lithuanian authors have been invited to the team as prominent social scientists; no one represents any political party or any country here. You could count on that. Since we have discussed this issue several times here, we know that the Human Development Report is a genre initiated by the UN. It is based on international statistics and there are always certain components. These specific components are linked to the fact that the UN index, on the one hand, includes indicators of economic development and a problem of welfare development. This year, it has been measured in a slightly different way, not on the basis of GDP, but on the basis of gross national income, but both are actually used. Education indicators will also be measured a little differently this year. The number of years of study has been used. Before it was based on participation in education, now the expected number of years of study and the average number of years of study. The indicators of health and "generally personal well-being" are summarised in terms of life expectancy. Based on the calculated index, Estonia has been a strong member of the world's countries for several years. A certain figure for all highly developed countries has been abandoned this year; all 169 countries have been divided into four groups. Estonia is firmly in the first quarter, although at the end of the first quarter. Latvia and Lithuania are in the second quarter, or just among the highly developed countries, at the beginning of the second quarter. If we compare it to sports, we can say that Estonia is in the A-league, but is still fighting to stay there, it is not in the "A-league" front row, while Latvia and Lithuania are struggling to reach the A-league. Let's look at specific indices. This line represents the difference in economic development. All comparisons have been made in such a way that the entire Baltic Sea region has been taken: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania versus the Nordic countries versus Germany and Poland. We have also brought Russia to comparison because it is such a good bottom line that shows a certain background. According to economic well-being, Sweden, Germany, Finland and Denmark are the first four clearly on one level, but Estonia, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Russia are clearly on another level. We see that there is no difference between countries here, there is still a difference between East and West. This means that one of our major tasks over the next 20 years will be to reduce this scale and reach a comparable level with Northern and Germany. Let's look at these columns. Darker is the index of life expectancy and brighter is the index of education. We see that the countries here also differ 'personally'. For example, in Estonia, which is the fifth in this row, life expectancy is shorter than in Poland, for example, but we are much higher in terms of the education index. So here, individual peculiarities are noticeable. If we look specifically at life expectancy, I am pleased to tell you that we have increased our average life expectancy by five years over the last ten years, which is actually a very strong pace. This shows that we have managed to achieve a breakthrough with our health care arrangements, the way of our people's lives, athletic activity and everything else where there was a relatively weepy situation ten years ago. The subject I was talking about two years ago is the continuing ten-year difference in life expectancy between men and women. So our weakness is the health of men. We are not very similar here to Latvia and Lithuania. In Lithuania, life expectancy has not increased so much, while in Poland life expectancy has increased steadily, even when Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania suffered a very strong decline. If we look at education, the average number of years of study is our strongest half, with Estonia among the first three in the Baltic Sea region. He has reached the same level here as Germany and Sweden. However, the quality of education remains a problem. Professor Mati Heidmets talks about education for a while. I'm not talking about it anymore. I took the Member States of the European Union out of the UN Human Development Table and made a separate ranking. It's not coming out of the UN, but we're probably more interested in it. Here we see we don't have that much to cheer for. We are in the first quarter of the world, but in the European Union we are in the last third, even though we are the first third of the European Union, so we have progress, you could say, vunk or ambition. Latvia and Lithuania are among the last four. But if we look at the top ten, then right here, I see that everyone has eyebrows high on the question of Ireland. Please note that the statistics used by the UN are not statistics this year, it is two years old. But here, too, the question is that the overall indicators of human development do not reflect the current economic situation, they reflect the human capital collected, accumulated. We know that Ireland contributed very strongly to this. In this context, there is a reason to ask questions about what the world's social scientists are currently discussing very much. In fact, different types of capitalism. While ten years ago the transition countries were spoken about, like trains running in the same way on one track, there has been a great deal of debate today about the differences between institutional systems. Here we can talk about two models. One is the model of liberal capitalism, a model built on "individual competition," and the other is a coordinated model of capitalism, one could say a more cooperative model. The first is the United States, Europe of course England, and the second is Germany. It is interesting that Estonia has become a model of the liberal model among the transition countries, a "test copy" of living or dying. Slovenia is the clearest example of a coordinated market economy. Both models have both strengths and weaknesses. We cannot say that one is better and the other is worse, both have their strengths and weaknesses, in different situations they manifest differently. One of the places where these weaknesses and strengths will certainly make themselves felt is how these same transition countries are getting closer to the core of their peripheral or semi-peripheral state. Analysing the development of Eastern Europe, it has been said that the same Western and Eastern issue also stated that, after the collapse of the Berlin Wall, the so-called socialist states actually turned out to be developing countries at their level of development. Since these developing countries have become modern, innovative, productive countries, this notional breakdown into four classes also reflects this. We can see that Estonia is already one of the semi-nuclear countries. We have another chance, we are on the roll, we can already claim that we are going there, while Latvia and Lithuania are still on this road. Our threat is precisely the risk of a relapse. Now, my little personal note. In general, it tends to be that if some phenomena are of a certain systemic nature, they also occur in different areas. We should be very careful about how the athletes are doing, because they too have developed the so-called fast rise syndrome and, with considerable difficulty, the survival syndrome at the top. This is a very serious problem. What gives us hope? What gives us courage? I think it's a ranking that doesn't exist in this report, which I did to offer you something new today. This shows precisely the move towards an innovative economy. This is the World Economic Forum's assessment based on different factors, this is a fresh one, this year's assessment. This is the same world competitiveness ranking. The first here are Sweden, Finland, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, our neighbours in the Nordic countries and even Northern Europe. What do we see? In competitiveness and innovation, the Nordics and Central Europe are at the forefront, in the back there is Eastern and Southern Europe, with Eastern and Southern Europe already mixed, there is no division into old and new members, but everyone is as capable as they are. It is important here that Estonia is on the border again. We have come ahead of southern and eastern Europe, but we have not yet caught up with Northern and Central Europe. Again, this is a state on the border where our own choices, our own efforts, are more dependent than if we were in a "stable cluster" somewhere. If we look at the characteristics and characteristics of the Baltic States, we had a very serious hole, unlike the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, after breaking apart from the Soviet Union, the transition to our own money and all the structural reforms. In Poland, for example, there is a steady rise, but we have had a very large hole. So we need a great deal of effort to get out of it. This figure shows economic development and people's satisfaction with life. We can see that the Baltic countries are similar in terms of the pattern of economic development. The pattern is the same, only the pace of development is different. This means that both Latvia and Lithuania have prerequisites for catching up with us. At the same time, we can see that there is an enormous difference between people's satisfaction and people's judgment. The subjective difference is greater than objective. This is one very important conclusion from this whole analysis. What are the special features of Estonia's development? We have a higher rate of change, we've done a number of things two or three years before. There are several examples of this: privatisation, consolidation of banks, consolidation of the political landscape. Secondly, our changes have had a certain degree of consistency. Political fickleness has been less. We have had a difference of views, but there has been sufficient consensus on certain basic issues. We have succeeded in achieving, thanks to our privatisation model mentioned in chapter 1, that we do not have politics and the economy integrated in such a way that, for example, we can talk about oligarchs. We have been open to foreign capital, we have had more courage and opportunities to do so because we have had a strong Nordic orientation. These, as certain objective circumstances are known to all of us, clearly distinguish us from Latvia and Lithuania. At the same time, in a negative sense, we share the fact that social policy has been rather backwards in all three countries and that the well-being of our people is very different from that of our neighbours. If we look at the average income, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland and Estonia are similar in terms of low income, while all Western neighbours are similar in terms of high income. That is one serious reason why we are leaving a lot of labour and brains. At the same time, our spending on social needs, not only on social assistance, but also on health care and everything else, has been among the smallest in Europe, as has Bulgaria and Romania. So the poorer a country, the less he spends to actually cope with poverty. It's a paradox of itself, and it's gonna be a problem. I was in Florence a week ago at the European University, where an analysis was published comparing the Baltics with other Eastern and Central European countries. There was a very important seminar where it was said that the countries of Central Europe (Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, etc.) have moved to the next development class in comparison with the Baltic countries, precisely because they contribute more to human development there. The closer we get to an innovative economy, the greater the role of man, that is, the role of man's ability. As far as social systems are concerned, I recommend that you read the chapter 3 of the Jolanta Aidukaite section. He analyses the eclecticity of the Baltic social systems very well. We have a paradoxical, internally controversial system. We have many universal measures in social security, etc., but there is very little money for them. The more universal the measure, the more money is needed. We also have very few needs-based personalised measures. The more there are, the more social workers are needed, the more administration is needed. We are saving both money and personnel, which means that we cannot properly implement one or the other. We need to make a choice in social policy, one model or the other. But we have to do it completely, not so we'll take the cheaper one here and the cheaper one there, because then we can't change anything for the better in either model. Especially when we consider that problems are growing, unemployment remains a problem for a long time, society is ageing, so it cannot be said that the social burden on society is being reduced, rather it will increase. We know that the economic crisis was our challenge. It's like we've been breathing lightly for a while now, but we don't know what's coming. In fact, it is important that this famous article by The Economist show that the three Baltic States eventually went through the same pattern, even though we say that we have been more successful. But basically, this ability to sum up itself has been internationally like that of the Baltic States, one could say, a characterator. Instead of congratulating governments, it should actually be the people, as shown by the part of the labour market in our report, which has been written by Professor Eamets. In fact, in terms of self-regulation, the regulation of the crisis remained on the shoulders of the employer, which is mainly a small enterprise. This setback finally led to an increase in emigration. So, at individual level, what the state was unable to regulate was regulated. External experts have developed a very interesting new concept of Estonia's development, the national liberalism, which is like hot ice. Hot ice in the sense that nationalism of itself is not a common feature of liberalism, in fact, it should be conservatism versus liberalism. This, however, is the situation that politicians have said that in a small community, an individual identifies his or her destiny with the fate of the state more than the great nations do. It forces, not even forces, but also encourages people to be more patient. But here, of course, it must be taken into account that trust capital, which is very large, is also very fragile. With confidence, as a sociologist, I can tell you that it is very worthy and very important capital, but if it disappears, it will be very difficult to restore. As far as trust is concerned, I think one of the most interesting pictures of this report, to which I would point out, relates to the survey we did in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia in April and May. There were 16 questions, and that was the first of them: looking back at the changes that took place in 20 years, do you rejoice or grieve? A simple human question. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U10	Please give the waitress three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U11	Thank you. The yellow column means 'joyful' and purple means 'bad', white means 'hard to say'. In Estonia, both Estonians and other nationalities are more happy than saddened, in Latvia and Lithuania, both the main nation and other nationalities are more sad than happy. In Estonia, other nationalities are more pleased than Latvia and Lithuania, which is, in my opinion, a very strong indicator of trust capital. Very strong! It also shows that, despite all the difficulties and conflicts, we have come to a much stronger, one could say, positive consensus in our development. This is also reflected in specific assessments, but this is perhaps not important at the moment. The same trust in the government is also important here. What is important is the question that we also asked: "Do you want to tie yourself and your children's future to your country? ' In Estonia 61% replied that certainly, 32% was not certain, 8% said that certainly not. In Latvia and Lithuania, there were only less than half of those who wanted to tie the future to their land. That's the biggest problem. We can say that we have had a lot of positive development, but we must be aware that we also have important obstacles to development, which are very objective. Our small size, the small size of our population, is an objective fact and its reduction is also an objective phenomenon. Our peripherality on the map and also on the economy is an objective phenomenon. In order to compensate for all this, we need a particularly strong policy that can reach strategic decisions at the moment of the break, which would help to make Estonia, like the other Baltic countries, an attractive place where the young generation can realise itself. The greatest challenge here is national survival in a completely new situation. Not in this situation, with which we have been accustomed for centuries, that we must resist an alien conqueror, but in a new open world. There are also very high language risks. I would advise everyone to read the language chapter drawn up by Professor Triin Vihalemma, which is this report, I would say this, the most original chapter, because we have not dealt with this issue before. This shows that over the last ten years, English has become more common and common language for both Estonians and the Russians' young generation than Estonian, let alone Russian, which is not a common language for the young generation. So we have a question: Estonian, trilingual or English for the future of Estonia. Any step that pushes us from the so-called national language to the English language (it is now the main problem) can be dangerous for our future in the sense that it further motivates and encourages young people to seek out themselves outside Estonia. This is what we discussed in the Committee on Culture, and I stress it, also in relation to reforms in education. The conclusions are that our priority must be to curb the reduction of the population and to deal with the shortage of human resources. It is necessary to see whether specific policies meet this objective. This needs to be done rationally and honestly, not according to myths, emotions or party motives. I would like this debate to force us, in a calm, honest, friendly manner, together to seek solutions to our most-most serious problem of sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U12	Thank you very much, good waitress. You have a lot of questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U13	Thank you. I thank you, Professor Marju Lauristin, you and your team for the great work you have done in drafting the Estonian Human Development Report. But my question concerns what you called Estonia's biggest problem. Your slides show that the decline in population in Estonia and Latvia can, in the foreseeable future, bring our human resources below the limits necessary for the sustainability of the development of the nation state and national culture. A year ago, you talked about the same concern in general, you said that one of the biggest losses in the economic crisis was the loss of our human resources. In your conclusions you say that the delay in solutions may be too high a price. Can you tell us if, over the course of the year, your warnings or attention have been heard and if anything has improved on the issue of emigration?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U14	Speaking about what has gotten better, it has certainly improved that people have learned that it is possible to cope with the crisis, and people have learned again that in Estonia it means primarily that everyone has to cope with their own crisis and go on, not to cry when something has gone wrong. As regards whether there have been developments at national level towards positivity, I think that certain positive developments are certainly linked to the way in which we have been able to support an innovative economy. Not as much as it takes, but it's been done. This same increase in our innovation is important. Have we had any positive developments in the social field? If we look at the use of European money, for example, at the unemployment fund, it has been somewhat, compared to what it was. But certainly not enough. The serious problems of re-training in the labour market have now come up; they relate more broadly to the issue of education, which will come up later. As the audit of the National Audit Office shows, by the way, there have been a lot of small trainings. That's positive. We have increased our overall participation in learning, but its quality does not match the needs of the labour market. One- or two-week or one- or two-day courses do not create a potential new capacity in a person. Rather, we should look more closely at what people need, it is re-training in terms of changing professions, it is a fundamental and thorough innovation in qualifications. These include forms of lifelong learning, for example in an open university, the return of people who are in the labour market without any education through vocational education. But it means much more qualitative work, it means much more effort, not the small projects where European money is spent quickly and quickly, but it still means very fundamental, also institutional changes. I think one of the key issues is the same adult learning, lifelong learning. I expect Professor Heidmets to talk about it. As far as the social side is concerned, I think what Professor Eamets says in our report in the labour market chapter, that we do not, however, have to hope for this, that we all know about the rapid fall in unemployment, means that there is still no solution to the problem of children and the families of the unemployed, which has also been discussed in this Chamber. In my opinion, child poverty is still a matter of what is haunting us. We have a number of things that have been started to do, European money has helped to do this, but institutional, fundamental, strategic decisions are still limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U15	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U16	Thank you, President of the sitting. Thank you very much, Professor Marju Lauristin. I am also interested in the chapter on social policy. You have written here 'Baltic welfare state', in quotes, and you say, among other things, as in this Chamber, that the governments of the Baltic States have never considered social policy issues as a priority, and from developed welfare countries we are different from the size of social benefits and from the minimum wage level, and we are clearly lagging behind here. Does it seem to you that we want to stay behind and develop this liberal model test copy method (as you said, we are called a neoliberal welfare state) or do we want to catch up with developed countries? Or is our request, however, that we develop this new model?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U17	I will say once again that I would not oppose them in this way. Both models, once developed, are welfare state models. The United States is also a welfare state, a welfare society, and England is also a welfare society. But these models are different, they require contributions to different resources. We have not contributed to one model or another in such a way that it really results in prosperity. That is why I am saying that, in fact, it is a great task not once, but repeatedly to discuss it with experts, representatives of the Nordic countries. We will have a conference on the same subject on 24 and 25 November, to which you are all welcome. It will be arranged with the Baltic Assembly. There we are discussing whether it is possible to bridge the welfare gap between the Baltic States and the Nordic countries. It is not possible that we are going the same way as the Nordic countries. Nor is it possible for the Nordic countries to continue as it is today. There's gonna be a new model. This is, in our opinion, the Baltic model, which is economically effective, but at the same time it allows for well-being in such a way that no child is without development opportunities, so that social divisions and human capital, human dignity, human capacity are reduced in this sense. I think this is the place for the debate on the scientific and political round table, this is not the place for propaganda, this is not the place where we can throw'slogan axes' at each other. This is a serious analytical question. I would point out that, although we constantly hear that we have too many social scientists, contrary to Germany, the United States, England, not to mention the Nordic countries, we have only three or four professionals dealing with social policy in a scientific way, dealing with the analysis of the economic efficiency of social policy. There are dozens and hundreds of them elsewhere. We simply lack the ability of the brain to deal with these issues systematically.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U18	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U19	Thank you. Honourable performer! I'm gonna ask you one more question. We have built these countries together for 20 years, but at the same time we need to read from your report that social costs in the Baltic countries are the worst in Europe, pensions are the lowest, wages are also the lowest, poverty and income inequality are the highest. That is my question, honourable speaker: what do you think, based on your experience and the preparation of these reports and following the development of the surrounding countries, when will we arrive at the model you have just spoken about and what will the Prime Minister call for to reach the richest five countries? What decade could it take? No kidding, I'm just asking, about what years it could stay if the current development continues.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U20	I don't think it's so predictable right now, because it depends on what kind of decisions are made. If we continue as we've done so far, under the slogan "Shipping to the ground," this looting will take place at the worst possible level. If we can, as I said, discuss strategic options and alternatives on the basis of the Round Table and agree on certain things for a longer period than one election period, because social policy and education policies are long-swinged, then it is possible that we can take these steps together with the Nordic countries, and I think that together with the other Baltic countries, which will help us over this gap more quickly. Surely this is not possible in two, three or five years. Whether it's possible in ten or 15 years, that's a problem. I very much hope that this is possible, but it requires determined policy-making.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U21	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U22	Thank you! Honourable waitress! Thanks to you for this probably the most extensive reference document ever made for the Baltic States! Here's the question. The Preface to the Reports states that the purpose of the Reports is not to rank countries. However, when we look at these tables, the majority of the tables reveal Estonia's leading role. Statistics have such a strange property that it can be tilted in one direction or the other according to the collection methodology or even the timing of questions in connection with revolutionary social events. Is there something in this document that could give our Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues the opportunity to say that this document has somehow been biased towards Estonia, because two thirds of its authors are Estonians, or could it be translated into Latvian and Lithuanian and reported in the parliaments there as it is? I ask this particularly in the light of this table, which says that the Lithuanians' trust in their parliament is twice as low as the Estonians' trust in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U23	Thank you for that question. I am pleased to say that we have already been to Latvia and Lithuania with this report. In Lithuania, we even presented it at the Presidential Palace. There were a number of prominent listeners and a very lively debate, with the first violin played, of course, by Lithuanian authors, who themselves were very active, very critical, etc. We also went to Riga, Riga University. On 24 November, as I said, a conference will take place, which is included in the programme of the Tallinn session of the Baltic Assembly. So we can discuss these matters in the Baltic Assembly. As regards whether we have been biased, on the contrary, we were very embarrassed to keep this line so that the criticism of Lithuania and Latvia would come from Latvia and Lithuania itself, so that not Estonians would look anywhere and say that you will see that you have either way or so there. If you read this text, you will see that it really is. As far as statistics are concerned, you're right. If we receive similar lines of tension from different statistics made in different institutions, this shows that there are objective differences. The question is why Estonia has come forward in many places and if it has not made it ahead, why has it not done so when it has opportunities. They're trying to answer that here. There's a lot of answers. I recommend that you read the summary of the Lithuanian Professor Norkus chapter 1, where he identifies the reasons for Estonia's success. I think they're pretty objective. As far as Latvia's problem area is concerned, I think it has been analysed very substantially in the policy chapter. The three authors of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania wrote the policy chapter in such a way that they discussed each section together so that it would not be inclined. In this sense, it is truly balanced. With regard to Lithuania's development, in this very chapter 1, I think, the Lithuanian author has a very good analysis. However, the overall conclusion is as follows, I repeat it once again. We often feel that we are, in principle, much better, but that is not true. We've evolved very much along the same path. Latvia and Lithuania have a real opportunity to catch up with us because they are working very hard at the moment. One feature of this is that Latvia continues with a government that is able to take Latvia out of the recession. There are many aspects in Lithuania that show that they have always been a little behind their national development, even purely demographically. They are now being driven by great emigration. They have such, you could say, a goal to catch up with Estonia. I have read the Lithuanian authors' texts; these texts are about such that they are on the same road as the Estonians and they have a chance to go ahead. So we're in a pretty good competitive situation. I think it's good for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U24	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! Honourable faculty! Once again, an excellent report. Thanks for the big job! Let me be clear about this: what could be the most important area or theme to focus on in the coming years? Development has been very rapid, but where can we expect such a new leap of development so as not to rely on the linear growth that we have had in almost all areas? The great goal is to survive as a nation in an open world. In fact, there has been a lot of talk about education. Maybe you can elaborate on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U26	If you sum up not only this report, but a number of very important new books that have appeared and are analysing the development of Eastern Europe, then you can say that the general statement is: if you take Estonia and other advanced Eastern European countries, as is generally classified, if you take ten new members, then we are among the first five according to international literature, but out of the first five, we are the fifth. These first five new members have the task of reaching out from their human potential, human capital and its exploitation in their own economies to Germany and other first countries. This means, first of all, that the labour market, employment, or the whole of our economy, should develop in such a way that a highly educated, well-prepared young person can find an application here. There's a big gap here right now. Very many young people who receive a good education either in Estonia or outside Estonia say that they will not find an application in Estonia, but will find a better application elsewhere. It is one side, an innovative economy as such. The other side is that we still have fewer young people growing. Hence, the departure of each young person, the failure of every talented young person from school, or the withdrawal of every talented young person from self - development, and the loss of alcoholism, etc., will cause us many times greater damage than the very large countries where one person is small. So we need to look at three sides. Firstly, whether our economy offers opportunities and challenges for a new generation. Secondly, whether as many as 100% of the new generation as possible is impossible, at least 95% of its development really reaches such a level that they could be more capable of compensating for the decrease in the number of people. Thirdly, can we motivate you? It is a question of values. There is not so much about values in this report, but I made a comparison of values between European countries on the basis of a European social survey. Here, Estonia stands out among other countries by the fact that we have two values that are more important than the average, they are together, with success and fun. But in those countries that are ahead of us in Germany, the Nordic countries are superior to success and work or success and regularity. I think it's a little of our own fault too. This is the result of our general mentality, the overestimation of money or economic wealth, and the underestimation of other, perhaps more noble values. This is also one reason why young people in Estonia no longer have anything to hold on to. They feel that they have the right to have this success and fun in their lives immediately, why they should achieve it together with Estonia's development.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U27	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U28	Thank you. Dear Professor Marju Lauristin! Thank you and your team for their hard work. Here's my question. Europe was dominated by the apology of the nation state between the two world wars, and civil society has been at the centre for decades now, with local authorities and the citizens' initiative being very important. The Human Development Report has repeatedly mentioned the backwardness of our local authorities. Of course, we can be pleased that Latvia is worse off than we are. But under the optimization of the school network, for example, it says that it is not easy because schools are founded and their activities are the responsibility of local authorities, which are not interested in optimization. It seems that we have managed to cope with the incredible: the local government, which in a normal society, as well as in our history, has been a powerful engine for local development, has become like a brake. In order to normalise the situation, should a sufficient income base be created for local authorities to carry out their tasks and independent of central authority, making them masters and development engines again? Looks like there's a crisis place here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U29	I am not referring here to this year's annual report on human development. This year we don't have regional analysis. Look at last year's report, there are very clear views on it. It also shows the different abilities of our parishes and so on. Of course, in this light, I must say that if the Prime Minister of any party says that the local government system in Estonia has been ready for 1500 years and does not need to be changed, then I ask whether we should also start plowing with the harpower or something like that. However, it seems to me that we cannot talk about an effective education system unless there is an effective administration system, we cannot talk about equal opportunities for this same human development in Lihula, Narva and Tallinn if we do not look at administrative mathematics. Administrative mathematics is clearly linked to human development.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U30	Tõnis Lukas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Marju Lauristin! Thank you for this big and constructive job. First of all, I believe that the purpose of adult learning cannot be measured solely by success in the labour market, because personal development and its valorisation also affects those who have not had problems in the labour market and do not have problems in the labour market. But this is about social support or support in society. You said that the poorer society (we are in this group), the less it supports social equality or provides support to the poor. At the same time, the financing of education has grown strongly from GDP and we are trying to exit poverty through the financing of education. Has the Estonian state's exit strategy been wrong so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U32	We are still in this dimension with Bulgaria and Romania, but we do not want to be there. In all other rankings, we are clearly distinct. I think we've let too much slide on the image of this poor Eastern European land. We have also developed social policy frequently only through European aid. As I said, I think it is important to discuss what is the highest priority here. The classic, of course, is that children are the top priority. Child poverty is a threat to the nation, child poverty is increasing with unemployment, child poverty is increasing with regional disparities. What concerns this subject is not solved by education, because it all comes before education or together with education. As the former Minister of Education, who has dealt with it a great deal, knows perfectly well that the different capabilities of different schools are very much linked to the fact that families have different backgrounds. That's theme number one. I see a solution here in a very large number of links between education and social policy, because, by the way, according to classical theory, when we look at science more broadly, education is part of social policy. Here's a big subject of early childhood education. We can be very proud that we already have access to early childhood education at the level that Europe thinks is right, but on the other hand it means that we do not actually have early childhood education, although it is nominally education, but it is not treated equally with primary education. We should have the same quality of early childhood education so that a little girl and boy from Kassinurme can receive the same preparation as a little girl and boy entering Tallinn English College. I think it is important and it should be publicly guaranteed. The Latvians are now taking a step that I think is very right: they are pushing the formal beginning of education to the sixth year of life. I think we should do the same. There must be state-guaranteed early childhood education, quality, with well-paid teachers. Yesterday you saw that kindergarten teachers were here. This is one of the keys to the social and educational community. The other half is the same re-training. The people who should receive a proper vocational qualification must be brought to the school bench. They've gone into the labour market and worked casually, now they're 35 years old. Basically, they've been lost on the path we think is right. I mean, re-training efficiency as a social efficiency. As far as the purely auxiliary system is concerned, I am not going to talk at length about the fact that we now have a situation where giving birth to a child is a national privilege, but raising a child after he is one and a half years old is no longer a national privilege. That is, in my opinion, a very important difference. Look at young families and think about what we do not yet have, but what we have next year, think about the census data and how many families with children have left Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U33	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Professor Marju Lauristin! This is really a very interesting report. Here we have compared systems with basic data of the same kind. I always wonder how we can compare what has happened in Finland and what has happened to us, when Finland has developed on quite different conditions, 20 years ago we had different conditions. But my question concerns another matter. I am convinced that it is very important for each country to have a strong middle class. Can you tell me if the middle class has already emerged in the Baltic States? If so, what is its size, and if it isn't, how much time does it take to create it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U35	This is where I have to rely on our own polls and statistics. I dare say we have a middle class. Actually, it's kind of a normal distribution. It's just a question of what's the difference. Our middle class is poorer and less stable than the middle class in other countries. This depends on our average salary, our average income relative to the small. This makes it very easy to fall out of a stable state typical of the middle class. I'll look at my young colleagues. When twins are born into the family and when children's money runs out, there's a pretty strong fear that they won't be able to maintain their standard of living. There are two sides to the middle class subject. One is the income side, but the other is the side of certain values. If we look at the differences between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the fact that after 2004 we have stabilised confidence in the state, regardless of the attitude towards a specific government, I think, is also a sign of the strengthening of the middle class. In a sense, the middle class always bears the stability of development. So I dare say that in 20 years we have come so far that there is a middle class, but our middle class is more vulnerable and more threatened than the middle class of our wealthy neighbours.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U36	Dear waitress, I very much enjoyed this place in your speech, where you said that the various talents will not be discovered and recognised, and that is one of the reasons why there are very many under-educated people in our society. My question is whether, apart from better motivation for teachers, which is very important, and the reorganisation of the school network, which is also important, should do something with curricula, perhaps with the preparation of teachers, in order to discover all the talents. Leonardo da Vinci said centuries ago that a person has at least 16 talents. We mostly talk about three or four.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U37	Thank you. Dear waitress, The report has dealt with the various social groups in sufficient detail, but less has been done about regional development in Estonia. At the same time, there is a global trend towards urbanisation. Would it be in the interests of human development in Estonia to give in to this trend and even to encourage it? What is Estonia's path in terms of regional policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U38	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U39	Thank you. Dear waitress, In 20 years, Estonian society has undergone very great changes. People have become much more mobile. Almost every person has a mobile phone, most families have a car, most people use the Internet, people move around more. At the same time, Estonia's administrative arrangements, as the Prime Minister mentioned, have remained in 1500 years ago. Do you think that Estonian society in general supports administrative reform if it also leads to school network reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U40	I think he does. I don't understand this 1500-year example very well, I don't understand what the point is. But it seems to me that this is one of the themes of both the reform of the school network and the guarantee of administrative capacity in all parts of Estonia. There is no change in a hundred per cent subsidy. But this is a topic that has been sufficiently discussed in Estonian society and I believe that it is ripe to start preparing practical steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U41	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U42	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U43	Thank you very much. Dear editor-in-chief! I liked the report this time, compared to the previous one, precisely because it was even more'more passionate'. Clearly, we all have our sympathies on the right-left scale. Now, let my question not sound provocative to me as the representative of the right-wing worldview, but this economic crisis, the crisis in the euro area, has shook different countries. We see the socialist governments in Spain and Greece making draconical right-wing cuts, while in Sweden, where there is a right-wing government, there is no touching on social guarantees or such. Finnish opinion leaders say: "Estonians, do not copy Finland first on social issues, this bomb is ticking on our leg. ' How does it seem to you in this cataclysm where Europe is now, that these social expenditures are also beginning to become more uniform in this trend of federalisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U44	Raivo Järvi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U45	Thank you. Dear Professor Mati Heidmets! There's been a lot of talk about education in this hall this week. At the beginning of the week, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip answered questions about teachers' salaries. Prime Minister Ansip is still pleased to say that Estonia is a European champion on something, such as cutting back, but he told us here that we have nothing to be ashamed of in terms of educational expenditure, because although the government is not going to raise teachers' salaries, Estonia is at the forefront of education spending. He said that Estonia, after Denmark, Sweden and Cyprus, is the fourth largest country in the European Union when it compares education expenditure as a ratio to GDP. I will take a look at page 106 of your Human Development Report and see Table 4.2.13 'The share of education-oriented public expenditure in GDP 1995, 2000, 2007'. It's the same subject the Prime Minister was talking about. From this I see that Estonia's share is smaller than that of Latvia and Poland, slightly larger than that of Lithuania, smaller than that of Finland and Sweden. Who's wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U46	To be a judge, these two sources should be placed side by side, for there are different methods of calculation. However, I would like to comment on a question on this subject. In particular, when we are talking about educational expenditure, we are talking about the money that goes into the education sector. Within the education sector, this money is somehow distributed. This money, which is paid to pay teachers' salaries, is probably not much debated by anyone, is very small on a European scale compared to national wealth, or GDP. So there's something in the education sector, I don't know, disappearing. Somewhere that money goes. I have not found a good analysis of where one of the largest "inputs" in the world ultimately disappears. I think it is a serious task to make this clear. Maybe it's too much construction or something else. But making this picture clear, I think, might help us solve some of the teachers' concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U47	Thank you. Dear Professor Heidmets! You have shown so refreshingly that in the field of education, there are options that do not use such a black and white scheme, that one option is correct, the other one is wrong and must adhere rigidly to only one option, but sometimes it is wise to approach the matter systemically. Several official documents on Estonian education go through the recognition that too much attention has been paid to the social sciences and humanities in Estonia, just like mathematics and exact sciences. We have read wonderful studies from which the humanitarian side, at the request of the Ministry of Education, was left out as irrelevant. Marju Lauristin tried to balance the matter a little bit and said that it was not even an overproduction of social scientists. I, recalling the stories of my European colleagues, realise that in other European countries history is also considered a national attribute, and I recognise that we do not have the resources to carry out this task in a high-quality manner. Do you agree with this common scheme to remove the blanket from one another in the field of education, or do you think that this blanket should be knitted up?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U48	When we're talking about higher education, I think the blanket is big enough right now. Indeed, it has been said a lot that Estonian education has tended towards soft disciplines and there are not enough engineers. I advise all these speakers to unblock the Ministry of Education's website. There is a table above comparing the countries of the European Union by the proportion of graduates in the fields of study, i.e. the proportion of graduates in social sciences, humanities, technical sciences, natural sciences. Look at this chart. There is also Estonia's data on both our graduates and the national training order. It is possible to read from it that the professional distribution or proportion of specialists with higher education corresponds exactly to the European Union average; it is not inclined anywhere. If someone says they're inclined, we should report some kind of data on it. The story has so far been of much of a nature that 'it seems to me that I have been told by an industrialist.' I don't think such claims can be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U49	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U50	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In answer to the earlier question, you said that you believe that teachers are right now to be a little angry with the state, and you hoped hopefully that there would be a consensus in society that there would be a need to raise teachers' salaries. You don't see that consensus in this hall. In words, everyone is certainly prepared to confirm that yes, teachers' pay is low and could be higher. But if we look at the state budget for next year, for example, we will see that a number of spending increases significantly in the draft proposed by the government, but teachers' salaries are not among them. This means that there is, in fact, no consensus in this Chamber. What, in your opinion, is the reason that the social consensus has never reached the people's representatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U51	It is likely that the people will not speak to their representatives in a demanding manner. I was able to speak here about my impression of the current accepted attitude in Estonia. I think that the pay of teachers is the subject where there is consensus. If we were to do some kind of questioning now, we would get a very clear picture that this is an important problem that needs to be resolved. People's representatives might need to rethink the subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U52	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U53	Thank you, honourable rapporteur, for a good presentation and also for a very thorough and open discussion on the same subject in the Committee on Culture. I have a simple question about the methodology for drawing up this report. You have also mentioned the importance of early educational, let us say caring, several times today. When we talk to teachers and teachers from higher education institutions, applied and vocational training institutions, they say that they have to do a large amount of the work that has not been done at the previous school level. This is how we get to middle school, which says that they need to improve children's social skills and physical development, which perhaps should have been done in kindergarten. However, the part of education in the report does not concern early childhood education. Was it a conscious choice, whether it happened by accident or what caused it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U54	The structure of the report, however, also resulted in a significant part of the comparable data available in three countries. Early childhood education was one topic where perhaps we were not equipped with data in the same way as our Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues. That is why the decision was made that we are not dealing with this issue here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U55	I'm asking you to give me a microphone, Tarmo Tammele, whose name disappeared from the screen for some reason!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U56	Thank you, good manager. Dear Professor, Thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. My question concerns free higher education. One party's election promise was free of charge higher education. Do you think it is real that this promise can be fulfilled in the next three years?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U57	All things can be done. The promise of free higher education can also be fulfilled by keeping only the part of higher education that is already free of charge. Whether this is reasonable and useful for Estonia's development, I doubt that. I think that this will lead to a number of side effects that have been sufficiently discussed in the media, there will be pressure to switch to English-language education, there will be pressure to go abroad to study. I think that, in itself, this is a very good goal if society wants to provide its young generation with an education that does not have to be paid for separately. In Estonia, I understand that this cannot be achieved by one big leap; it is a step-by-step movement according to how much taxpayers' money can be invested in higher education. If a step-by-step move towards free higher education is to be pursued, I think that makes sense. The way in which the draft that you are currently dealing with solves this is not reasonable, I think, because, first of all, it inevitably reduces access to higher education and, second, a number of new situations arise from the university's perspective, because there is certainly a reduction in the volume of study in certain areas, for example in social or legal sciences, which currently largely rely on paid learning. So as an idea, it's right, as an application, I think it's too under-considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U58	I dare say that not only have there been reforms in education, but the lives of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have been one major reform in the last 20 years. I think it's been inevitable. If you read this report, you can see that the road that has been through education in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the steps that have been taken, have been relatively similar. It cannot be said here that one has reformed, but the other has not reformed. Estonia's difference is probably that Estonia's reforms in education, perhaps in other areas of life, have been more consistent and also more 'finalised'. There are a lot of things still in progress in Latvia. I do not believe that education can be an area of life where we can say that we have completed this sector and now we are living a peaceful life for 20 years. Inevitably, the process of renewal goes hand in hand with development. I do not think that this should be taken very dramatically in education or anywhere else. Change is an inevitable part of today's world.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U59	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor, In the education chapter, you will mention that in optimising the school network, we must be guided by the principle that primary school is close to home. According to the Ministry of Education, seven secondary schools and over 80 primary schools have been closed during the independence period. We've done something wrong. How do you get out of it? When you answered the questions, you mentioned that administrative reform is essential, and we must do so. The last waitress, Professor Marju Lauristin, said we had the middle class, but it's vulnerable. I think that a large part of our middle class is in Finland, either they work there or they live there. The emigration of the administrative reform increased in Latvia. Do you think it's dangerous for our middle class?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U61	I do not believe that the administrative reform itself is dangerous. I think the way one thing or another is done can be more or less dangerous. As far as the closure of schools is concerned, it has not been part of the administrative reform, it has still reflected the movement of the population. If some villages and regions are so empty that it is not possible to have a school there, it is certainly not reasonable to have a school simply because it has always been there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U62	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U63	Thank you. Dear waitress, As we know, 32% of Estonian adults have no special and vocational education, which is certainly a major problem both in terms of human resources in general and in terms of improving the competitiveness of the economy. What do you think should be done to reduce the number of these people, and how do you assess the state's existing measures in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U64	One package of measures was actually a little talk. Its 32% includes all those who were previously called under-educated, i.e. those people who are either confined to basic education or trying to move on from primary education, but who are unable to graduate. It seems to me that if you focus on it, it would help to make it 32% smaller. There is certainly another way to improve the attractiveness of the vocational education sector and also the quality of teaching. Among its 32% are quite many who could actually receive some kind of vocational training and thereby improve their employability in the labour market. So this 32% is one big problem. There are a number of proposals in the education strategy that could help solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U65	Good editor, dear Professor Mati Heidmets! I thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The authors and performers of a very honourable report! The prerequisite and basis for the right decisions and the resulting success are in-depth and adequate information, self-analysis and assessment of the situation. As a result, the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2010/2011' is an exceptionally valuable undertaking and document. We decision-makers have every reason to thank and acknowledge the authors of the report. It is an outstanding scientific and practically useful work. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, together with the Committee on Social Affairs, had the pleasure of listening to the authors of the report and their representatives at its meeting on 18 October. Marju Lauristin, editor-in-chief of the Estonian Development Fund, Raivo Vare, and Peep Mühls of the Estonian Co-operation Assembly were explaining before the Commission. The Commission found that the report and the analyses and conclusions presented there were valuable self-reflection and a useful tool for further targeting. It is a pleasure to note that the report's authors have generally remained realistic and self-critical, pointing out that the report is, however, the analysis and vision of sociologists and social scientists, not the national policy programme. The study is voluminous and subjective, so it was not possible for the committees to be heard together and it is not possible to address all its aspects and areas in this brief co-report. However, with regard to the methodology for drawing up the report, I would like to specifically highlight its comparative nature, in this case the comparison between us and other Baltic counterparts, but not only. This is right and necessary because comparable, similar situations can be compared. It is heartwarming to note that Estonia does not look too bad in this comparison. I cannot go beyond the temptation to refer to the assessment of The Economist in the Baltic States in the summary of Marju Lauristin: 'Goodbye, Eastern Europe! Welcome to the new Nordic! ' Estonia's place compared to other countries in the world is 34 on the basis of the Human Development Index. This means belonging to a very highly developed country. This is something that the crashers of Estonia certainly do not want to see or know. But pleasant self - esteem should not mislead us. A lot has been done, but there is still a lot to do. We have no reason to get very full of air from winning the Baltic League. It must be said that the Human Development Report is a useful helper for us to move forward. As some classics have said, the question is not how to explain the world, but rather how to change it. Our happiness and, at the same time, our tragedy are our geopolitical location and a small population. On the one hand, the presence of rich, stable and developed Nordic countries has given us the opportunity to achieve a very favourable development environment, particularly through the free movement of capital, goods, services and labour in the European Union. At the same time, it has frustrated us at a psychological level in comparison with the standard of living and in terms of the exodus of the workforce, creating a cloud of concern about our sustainability. On the other hand, poor historical experience with our eastern neighbour keeps us in a position to be burdened with spending and problems that many other countries do not have. We can't get out of our position, so we'll have to take over as much use as possible. Here's what to take advantage of. It is important not only to see the negative in the current situation. In our daily lives, as well as in our daily policies, endless talk about the crisis and the threat to sustainability, which the media willingly amplify, often dominates. At the same time, in our recent history we have come through two really-or-not-be situations. I am thinking of the Second World War and the subsequent period, the late 1980s and the beginning of the 1990s. Then it was hard, we were in a border situation, right now there are just inconveniences and problems. It should be mentioned that as regards the control of crime, the functioning of democracy, the protection of rights and freedoms, the birth rate, the provision of health services, the development of civil society, the integration of minorities, the fight against corruption, social security, economic coping, the people of Estonia are more positive than our Baltic neighbours. Social optimism is greater, yet it is often dominated by grief and misery. A peculiar paradox. In order for our people to be more satisfied with their lives, the advice of the authors of the correct report is probably to make our social system more needs-based. This would allow everyone to gain greater satisfaction and sense of justice, reduce tensions and contrast in society, as well as alienation from their own countries, and, on the other hand, make optimal use of state resources. The authors of the report point out that the Estonian economy and society have also been more successful because they have been more open and liberal in their design. We must agree with the conclusion that Estonia has been more consistent and stable in many things, including the consolidated banks and the system of political parties in Estonia, the economy has been more open, tax policy is simple, transparent and consistent, and Estonia is attractive and innovative. Estonia is macroeconomically determined to be international. Estonia has followed the stability of constitutional order and government. This is all good and right, but we must be careful that stability does not become rigidisation and clinging. This brings us to one of the most important conclusions of the report. Indeed, there is still an open window of opportunity and we have the resources to use to complete the transition period and to make some necessary reforms, to complete ongoing reforms or to make improvements to reforms that have already been made. This is not only about reforms of the social system, but also about reforms in education and the wider public sector, including in administration and public law covering this area, up to the Constitution. As an advanced, stable and confident nation, it should not be taboo for us to talk critically about everything that affects our lives and disrupts or disrupts the dynamics of development. We may also ask whether a number of attitudes and policies, which were absolutely correct and relevant in the initial phase of restoring statehood, are still valid now, in a new situation. The population's reform capacity, as well as its resilience, is not eternal and everlasting. It is amazing how much the Estonian people have endured. The people of Estonia were bowed down! Nothing like this could have happened in such a short period of time in a stable west that was self - satisfied. The report points out that we, the sovereigns of the country, still have trust resources to use, but these, as I have already said, are not infinite in terms of time or volume. Consequently, we need to focus on the most important and valuable. The question is how to find it. According to the authors, we have not been able to shape a comprehensive vision and policy to ensure national sustainability. Maybe you could say that, and that's right. However, there is no vision, no strategy, nothing static, nothing once done, nothing in place. This is, especially in the present world, a process of continuous analysis, adaptation and development. A very valuable part of this is the report we are discussing today. If we didn't have a sense of sustainability development, then we should ask how we've gotten this far. The answer is that society must keep open, protect and promote democracy, be positive, not look for enemies, but try to find friends, care for values, then the people will also find solutions to their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U67	This convergence must take place at a certain level, not so that everyone falls to our level, but so that we are rising and those who have spent too much are pulling back a little bit. I cannot imagine Finland, Sweden or Germany falling to the low level where we are. Not at all. I am saying that we need to find the Baltic model, where we will consolidate at some level above us, but on a sustainable level. Another thing about the crisis, which is very interesting and which needs to be further analysed: the crisis still brings out very much the difference in human capital. If we look at what I have shown, the ranking of innovation and competition, we will see that some countries that are currently in crisis are far ahead of us, but, for example, Greece and all these countries are behind the ranking of innovation and competition. This shows that in their human development, the intellectual or the knowledge side of human capital has remained backwards compared to simply the 'fun' or the immediate spending side. It is very stressed that human development has the most valuable integrity and the part of human capital or human resources that actually restores society's capacity for development. I think we're gonna have to start looking at some cultural stuff here. For example, the same Lithuanian professor returns in chapter 1 to a very classical sociological concept of Protestantism as one of the so-called spiritual foundations of European capitalism. He even refers (not in this article, but in one of his other articles) to the impact of the Hernhutian movement in Estonia. The same morality of chastity and industriousness, which bears fruit in such a way that we do not even notice, really separates us from another country. I can inform you that there's a big question going on every three years 'I. The world. Media', where a thorough analysis of values and attitudes is carried out. I think that next spring we will be able to delight you with specific data on the values of different generations. I would like to say that there will be a generation exchange and an older and middle generation who will still carry these traditional values, the same low-end values of industriousness, will leave, and the generation of success and pleasure will take its place. Then there will be a completely different environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U68	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good Professor Marju Lauristin! Thank you for your very strong presentation. I, too, think that we have very often, at least, harmed our closest neighbours to Latvians, which have always been a negative example. But in your report, you mentioned that one of the greatest risks of failure to renew the economic development model is a fall back among semi-peripheral countries. Can you tell us what has been the greatest failure to renew our country's model of economic development, which we should pay the most attention to and avoid what dangers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U70	The biggest failure I think is that we haven't turned. From this same turn, our economists have been talking about my memory since 2002. Even before the crisis, it started to be said that when we reach a certain limit in economic development, there are such notional figures, $17000 per person, etc., a change in the development engine or a change in gear is necessary. We have not done this shift, or we have not done it completely.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U71	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U72	Thank you. Dear Marju Lauristin! These reviews have still been broad-based in the sector. Correct me if I am wrong, but it seems to me that one area has not been covered in the human development reports. It's defense. I was suddenly reminded of this by reading this report in parallel with one Diplomacy number, where the three Baltic States were also compared, but precisely from the point of view of defence. This comparison was about that of three pigs, one of whom builds a house of stone, while the other is dealing with some kind of straw and scraps. This compliment once again applies to Estonia. That is why I have this theoretical question: could it in any way be part of human development? A strict monetary policy, it seems, is already starting to give us a dividend in terms of human development in the European context.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U73	I'm improvising now. The dimension of human development and these reports are more about having something to protect.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U74	Can we get on with the questions? Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U75	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Marju Lauristin! This is really very important work that you have done for these debates, which should certainly take place both in this Chamber and on a wider scale. On one subject, I object for a moment. We often talk about Estonia or this region here as a potential periphery. On the other hand, we see once again that we are in quite good positions in the Human Development Index, and we are also influenced by the Nordic countries around us, which are at the top in many respects. As a recommendation, perhaps in the future it would be good to compare us with the Nordic countries, which we do a lot in a rhetorical way. But the question is this. You will see that in the future Estonia could be a bridge for Latvia and Lithuania and a 'Baltoscandia' maker. But what are the most serious problems with Baltoscandy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U76	Thank you for that question. As far as the issue of peripherality is concerned, it is not my or your fiction, rather it is in a sense an objective distribution that is used when looking at the ability of the countries of the world to create new ideas, to be at the forefront of change. We have so far been rather the ones who are outsourcing and applying ideas that have been born elsewhere. We have some beautiful shining examples, but these examples have not yet led us to a new level. So it's going to make this distribution. However, as regards whether we could be the leader, my deep conviction is that we could and maybe we should be, at least we should try to be. At a conference where I hope to meet you, it will also be discussed. This is the subject of a discussion round of the conference on 25 and 24 November, when we begin, by the way, with the discussion circle of the Presidents of the Riigikogu and the Latvian and Lithuanian Parliaments who offer visions on this very subject. I hope that we will come to completely new ideas, and Estonia will show that it is capable of being a leader. What is this about? We also did an experiment in this survey to see what people were thinking. Do people consider their Baltic neighbours important? The survey showed a huge difference. Among the first four most important countries in Estonia are the Nordic countries and Russia, while among the first four most important countries in Latvia are Russia, Estonia and Lithuania, and Lithuania are Russia, Germany, then Latvia will come, and the Nordic countries will be behind everything. I mean, we really are a bridge, Baltoscandia Bridge. At the same time, the fact that Latvia and Lithuania are highly valued among the Estonian people shows that we have the potential to take the lead, create our own ideas, etc. The fact that there is competition between us and that there are certain small cries and fights between us should not prevent us from seeing at a difficult moment and the difficult moments are probably more frequent than the light moments, that cooperation is more beneficial than competition. I think that the attempt to create the cooperation scenarios set out in the last chapter shows that, in any case, cooperation will be beneficial. Of course, the greatest benefit is when Europe as a whole is developing towards greater integration. But in any case, when we talk about the small size of our market, the small size of our human capital, when we talk about all these scale effects, the more we can promote the Baltic common space by developing infrastructure and cooperation here, the more we have the opportunity to show in one paragraph or another that this scale is actually wider.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U77	Honourable questioner! The answer to this question is found in last year's report, which was very much devoted to regional development. The answer was absolutely clear: Estonia does not benefit from a single-centre model. Estonia should still strive to achieve balanced development, knowingly developing further regions, certainly maintaining the model of the two centres that currently exist, Tallinn and Tartu and everything around it, but also looking more broadly towards the east-west, Narva, Pärnu, etc. In short, so that we do not have a city-state effect that will drain the periphery and actually reduce the potential for development. This answer was clearly given last year. Surely the team that is making the Human Development Report has stuck to this response.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U78	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U79	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Thanks for the big job! My question concerns a small part, or a positive trend in increasing life expectancy. You mentioned sport, health and social policy. It is known that the number of accident deaths has decreased hundreds of times during the period considered. There has been an important contribution from the police and rescue workers. The issue of defence failed, but my question is: can we have a few warm words on security policy alongside social policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U80	As for the causes of death and the increase in life expectancy, I just forgot to mention it. When we talk about whether there is anything that we can praise, where politics has really produced results, not just time and life have brought about change, there are several such examples. The Tiger Jump program is an example where there was political will and we did something that gives us a long dividend. This is certainly also an example of a policy that has led to a reduction in road deaths. In fact, less has been done to reduce accidents. When we look at fire accidents, when we look at accidents at work, etc., it is now an area where we have not reached where we could actually have arrived. But the reduction in road deaths is very positive. One of the things we talked about last year is alcohol. Alcohol deaths are a very, very serious problem. Everything we do to reduce alcoholism also prolongs life. However, as regards the introduction of the issue of internal security, rather the same security, we had with Minister Pomerants, when he was a minister, such talk and agreement that we should include this issue in the Human Development Report, because internal security, the courage of man to live in his own home, is certainly a question of human development, well-being and quality of life. So it's definitely coming in one report.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U81	Dear editor-in-chief and Professor Marju Lauristin! I thank you for your report, for your work and, of course, for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U82	Thank you to the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U83	I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, editor of the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2010/2011' Mati Heidmetsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U84	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! The educational chapter of the Human Development Report talks about changes in the education sector in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania over the last 20 years. Education is one area of life where all Baltic countries look relatively good compared to the rest of the world, especially Estonia looks good. We know that Estonia has reached the absolute peak of the world in several educational indicators. That's what our position is pointing to...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U85	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows! I'll take the manager's three-minute break. I hope that we can also get the presentation up and running in the form of information technology. I believe that it is more convenient for both listeners and waitress. The sitting will be resumed at 11.17 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U86	Good fellows, guests, honorable waitress! The chairman's recess is over. Our IT problems have been solved, certainly based on Tigger Jump. So let's continue the report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U87	Thank you. As we have already heard from the previous report, Estonia has reached the top of the world in terms of several educational indicators. Both the educational component of the Human Development Index and the results of the PISA survey known to all of us, or OECD analyses, speak of this. I think that being in this position in education is an achievement that we cannot be sufficiently proud of, although we might already be. If Estonia's goal, as we have talked about today, is to catch up with the developed world in economic, health or social security, then the tasks in education are different. This task is primarily to ensure sustainability and to break down the brakes on the development of the education sector. On many issues, we simply have nowhere to catch up, because we have already come a long way. Although many of Estonia's average educational indicators are beautiful, there are very often clear necks of bottles and large internal imbalances behind them. I am not going to rephrase the educational chapter, but I will bring out three areas of current concern in Estonian education on the basis of the 2011 Human Development Report. I will also make some points and clues as to what might be the solution to these concerns. The first issue, and the subject raised in the report, is the formation of the social strata of the under-educated. Against the background of Estonia's average figures, the fact that about a seventh of Estonia's young generation does not enter today, figuratively speaking, for many years. These are young people who do not go beyond primary education or even do not complete primary education. This issue is up all over Europe. In the European Union, a separate term has been developed for this purpose, i.e. early school leavers. We are talking about young people who are not educationally prepared for life in the 21st century. These are young people who remain at the lowest level of education. Unfortunately, it is also the group with which the ranks of the unemployed and the outsiders, the outcasts, are being expanded. These are people who often have problems creating a family and who are prone to alcohol and mind poisons. Some have started to call this company an educational lump. We can see that this company is remarkably large among the growing generation of Estonia. Unfortunately, boys dominate the under-educated. It can be assumed that this is where the gender bias in Estonian education begins, which in higher education comes to a situation where 250 women with the same level of education for every 100 men who have completed higher education in Estonia. With this two-and-a-half-fold difference, we are champions of the European Union. But, unfortunately, it's probably the kind of first place you shouldn't be too happy about. The accentuated educational gap between men and women inevitably creates tensions both in the labour market and in family life, for example. There are more and more families in Estonia where women have much better education than men. This situation raises the question of what we can do, whether it is inevitable, or whether there is any way to take action here. One solution is proposed by a new Estonian educational strategy project recently prepared at the initiative of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly and handed over to the Ministry of Education. It's not a strategy itself, it's not yet, it's a project. The content of the proposal is an important extension of the field of vision and assessment of school education, especially in comprehensive school, which means valuing and recognising different types of talent. According to this understanding, a good student is not only the one who correctly quits what he learns, but he can be good in very different ways. The usual standard should include different types of good students, such as those boys whose performance is expressed in sport, technical interest or computer research, and not just in the good rejection of learning assignments. Such a broader picture would help to increase the interest of the school and perhaps hold on to a few potentially early leavers. Such an approach also requires an extension of the basis for assessing the work of schools, a move from merely considering the results of the state exams to a much more diverse set of indicators. Once a year, we are delighted with the rankings of the results of the state exams. There could be different sequences, where schools are compared according to students' creativity, stress levels, and perhaps teachers' satisfaction with their work. The idea that there can be good in many ways, the introduction into school life and evaluation could also be one small key to finding a solution to the problem of the under-educated. The second major circle of questions, which the report addresses and which is acutely raised in Estonian society, is the question of the position of teachers in Estonian society. The situation is paradoxical. On the one hand, the results of the work of Estonian teachers are among the best in the world, and two consecutive PISA surveys tell us about this. On the other hand, teachers are forced to communicate with their own state authority from time to time in the language of demonstrations and posters. Something's wrong here. The Human Development Report once again describes what we already know about the Estonian school, which is largely based on long-term female teachers whose work is also modestly valued in relation to national wealth. It seems that the teacher topic is mature enough in Estonian society to take practical steps. Securing a dignified position in society for an Estonian teacher is not just about solving the issue of pay, although pay is very important. This is something that requires much greater effort. Again, several relevant steps are set out in this same educational strategy project. So it's a good document. In short, the strategy proposes a level of pay that takes into account the actual contribution of teachers to the labour market, coupled with a system of wage incentives for development and the elimination of inequalities in the remuneration of teachers in different municipalities, which is a fact. It is also important to open up the teaching profession to those who come from the side, as well as the clear responsibility of universities for developing teacher training, together with an increase in the so-called sectoral coefficient of teacher training, which has long been in the way of time. You can't forget the faculty, either. In universities, I think we've tended too far to assume that if a person is a good scientist, he's also a good teacher. It is probably time for universities to value pedagogical mastery just as much as research. As a practical step, the "university" centres of excellence that develop the best teaching methods and teaching techniques could be developed alongside the centres of excellence in science, following the example of the Finns. The position of the teacher in Estonian society should be aligned with the position where the results of the teacher's work have taken Estonia's education in the world. There are big scissors between these two things. The third serious issue is higher education, or rather, access to higher education and the quality of higher education. The Human Development Report reflects the changes that have taken place in the higher education sector in the three countries over 20 years, indicating that the overflowing freedom of the 1990s in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania has gradually been replaced by a much more rational way of life. This seems to be a good thing when we compare the number of institutions providing higher education and its changes over the last 20 years. This picture shows that in 2001 the Estonian Baltic Champion had 49 higher education institutions, but today there have been important changes. We have reached the 30th limit of the total number of higher education institutions, with only seven universities remaining in Estonia. For some, the Estonian higher education landscape has perhaps improved considerably over the last ten years, which in turn has increased the confidence of students and society as a whole in the quality of the learning provided. This process will continue in the context of the transition assessment. I believe that by the end of this decade, we will reach a suitable higher education picture for Estonia. However, compared to our good southern neighbours, they are at the stage of setting up a couple of new universities or higher education institutions each year. They're still in the growing season. Another hot topic related to higher education is free or paid higher education. This picture shows how three countries have behaved in this regard. In the case of Estonia, there is such a gentle tendency that the share of young people studying at free study places has started to increase gradually. Although it is certainly not fair or development-friendly at present if the parties study in free places and the parties pay for the whole study themselves. At the same time, I think that the draft currently pending in the Riigikogu, the so-called free study bill, the content of which is the simple prohibition of paid learning, is not the solution. This type of step, however, has a great many uncertain side effects that make the entire venture a little jump into the unknown. In education, I don't think jumping in blind is a good idea. Personal comment on this side. Looking at the short-term financial needs of the Estonian education sector, from the salary of teachers to the costs of organizing the school network, for example, it seems to me that the total exemption of the student body from the cost of the study is currently beyond Estonia's control. Perhaps it would also be worth discussing the model so that all Estonian students would cover some part of their study costs, so that there would no longer be a black and white distribution, so that I would pay everything and you would pay nothing, but the students' contributions would be evenly distributed. In addition, of course, there should be scholarships for students in economically disadvantaged circumstances and especially for students in the required disciplines. In this case, too, it is possible to move towards free higher education, so this movement simply means reducing the joint contribution of students and increasing the share of the taxpayer in accordance with the opportunities of our country and our economy. Once again: in international comparison, Estonia's education looks well, the more beautiful you look at from a distance. Unfortunately, it seems more and more that good results are often achieved on the basis of the sense of mission of Estonian kindergarten and school teachers and teachers, at the expense of their health and private life. This is not sustainable; a change is needed here, given, among other things, the special role of education in the survival and progress of the small people. This change does not mean individual elegance leaps, but permanent and balanced development work, especially in areas where the need for change is ripe and behind these changes is the understanding and support of an important part of Estonian society. I believe that the three themes highlighted in the Human Development Report are the level of society of under-educated people, the position of teachers and the quality of higher education and access to higher education have grown and are waiting for actions, as is the need to organise the Estonian school network. This does not mean, although such an opinion can be heard from time to time in the media, that the number of upper secondary schools is reduced. I think that its content is, in fact, the development of a proper cross-estonian network of close-home and dignified basic schools and the concentration of upper secondary school education in centres where the quality of education is guaranteed in any case. Hopefully, there is also a growing perception that there is no cheap, good education. If so, temporarily and at the expense of someone. The need for several important changes in Estonian education has grown sufficiently, which is reflected in the Human Development Report. These changes must be implemented, which is why I wish us all success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U88	Honourable waitress! Thank you! They are eager to ask you questions. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I, as usual, ask about the school language. I have read this chapter of the human report thoroughly, and I have received proof that Latvia's transition to learning in Latvian has not had a negative impact on the quality of knowledge, let us say so. Although it has also been said here that no one really knows whether or not they are studying in Latvian. In Estonia, we know exactly that if the changeover takes place, it will be studied in Estonian. Katrin Kello and Anu Masso also think that the transition to Estonian at upper secondary school does not actually solve the language problem, because not everyone simply gets into upper secondary school to study in Estonian. Do you think that this gap, which is probably very clear now, is dangerous for us if Russian youths with basic education remain Russian young people with basic education?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U90	Dear Professor, Whoever you talk to about Estonian teachers, at any level of education, this person teaches, when asked about the impressions of these 20 years, they complain that reforms are tired, reforms are feared, reforms are tired. Indeed, every minister has started with new extravagant reforms. I would like to ask you about your contacts with your Lithuanian and Latvian colleagues in doing this research. Has it been a question of whether there has been a calmer development or whether education there has been always in the pull winds of reforms?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U91	There were several questions. First of all, the Latvian experience. It's, like, double-decked by me. It is officially presented as a transition and disincentive, and it seems to be all right. Speaking informally, such as those Latvian authors who were involved in writing the report, they expressed serious doubts as to whether this transition was actually a transition or whether everything in the classroom was going to take place as before and it has simply been written that it had gone over to Latvian. I do not think that such a formal transition should be made in Estonia, but it is my conviction that a substantive transition should take place. If it is not prepared enough, it must be prepared, if there are not enough teachers, then the teachers must be found and prepared, but the whole machine must be turned around and said that we are starting from kindergarten, I think it would not be wise today. Of course, the best way to learn the language is when you are a young child, which also seems to be because those Russian young people who have been to Estonian kindergarten have no further problems with the language. So I do not think that we should take too much of the example of the Latvians in organising our transition.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U92	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much for your good and interesting speech, Professor. I'm gonna ask you a little bit more. Professor Marju Lauristin, who spoke earlier, said that the last crisis was not taken up by the Estonian state, but by the Estonian people and, on the contrary, by the countries of the great league, to which we are striving with all our soul, the Estonian government worked under the slogan 'All things will fall into place'. The fruits of this slogan we now taste in connection with the booming emigration. Yesterday, the 2012 state budget passed at first reading in this hall. Representatives of Eesti Pank and other specialists have already said that there are too optimistic estimates of income. When I asked the Minister of Finance what would happen if there weren't so many revenues, he said that we would start cutting wages and social benefits again. My question is: how do you assess what will happen to the development of the Estonian state if we start again cutting the salaries of teachers and other expenditures of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U94	Good questioner, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U95	I think that teachers' salaries should not be reduced, but increased. It seems to me that this is one of the topics where Estonian society has found consensus. Now the question is how to do it technically, in what way. If we compare the pay scale of different social groups, the teachers in Estonia are in such a state that they have the right to be a little evil. So even when the next fall comes, I see no reason or opportunity to cut teachers' salaries. My recommendation to all of us here, as well as more broadly, is to think about how and in what way the salary of an Estonian teacher could be raised to such a level that it would in any small way respond to what they are actually doing. The result of their work, as we have seen from international studies, is very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U96	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U97	Yes, of course, this concerns not only the pay of teachers, but the whole educational process. I think that the content of the new curriculum currently being introduced is substantially leading the Estonian school in the direction we talked about here today. There's one more important thing. Very often, you get what you appreciate. If schools are to be judged not only by where they are on the ranking of the state exams, but they are to look more closely at the evaluation of schools and also look at how many young people have dropped out of school and how many talent has been developed there, then schools will also pay more attention to it. It seems to me that broadening the basis for assessing both the work of the teacher and the work of the school is perhaps a key factor in resolving this concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U98	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U99	Treasure Heinvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U100	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U101	... greatly improved, but despite this, the small size of our people must be taken into account and that Estonian, as is actually Latvian and Lithuanian, is one of the least spoken languages with the characteristics of today's advanced cultural language. This is a position that is always very difficult to maintain, because even the preservation of higher education and scientific language in Estonian is extremely important here. I think that the threats to language and culture are the most important threats for all three countries, despite the positivity of recent years. It has been said here how cultural magazines have been closed in Latvia, which has not, fortunately, been made in Estonia. These threats deserve to be underlined alongside low birth rates and emigration, which may be the greatest threats. Yes, if Latvia's situation is worse, it must not be something to comfort itself with. On the contrary, this is the first sign of danger for us. Perhaps when you think of Runnel's expression 'We can't get through Latvia', translating it from poetry to politics probably means that an independent and strong Latvian state is actually the best guarantee of Estonia's independence. Finally, I would like to point out in a few words what has been highlighted as a threat to us in the chapter on political development. It is said here that the confidence level in Estonia is significantly higher than in Latvia and Lithuania, but I quote: 'Estonia's apparent stability also conceals weaknesses, including the risk of institutionalisation. 'I don't even know if 'over-institutionalisation' is the most accurate and better keyword to celebrate what is being said about it. The story is that political parties are increasingly closed, power is consolidated, we have less dialogue and less intra-social dynamics. Perhaps there is some mention here of the dangers that Jüri Adams and Allar Jõks spoke about in an earlier debate on the financing of political parties. But I'm not going to talk about it any further. I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U102	Thank you, good fellow, Chairman of the Riigikogu and Academician! Okay. Now the instructions have been given and the speeches have been made. I'm closing the negotiations. Once again, thank the rapporteurs, the questioners and, of course, all the authors of the Estonian Human Development Report from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania! [[Let's hear it.]] We are done dealing with the item.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U103	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable waitresses! Let the Social Democrats also thank you for another good piece of writing, but also for the wise talk you spoke about this speaker, because it does not happen as often as I would like. After all, with each report, those to whom it is presented should draw some conclusions. In the case of this report, which is exciting in the sense that the comparison between the three Baltic states is set out here, the most foolish conclusion would probably be to stick your fingers somewhere between your braces, to put your belly in front of you, and to say that we are all well. If we came to that conclusion, all these columns, which in this report say even more about people's trust in power, would be reversed in a very short time, and then we would have nothing to be proud of. In other words, this report should also make us wonder which way forward. However, I, too, would like to mention two things in relation to this report, which in general have rarely been mentioned in Estonia. We have, unfortunately, that when some political issues are very hot, they are a matter of discussion, and the decisions that are made at such a time are often unpopular or, at the very best, incomprehensible. But when we look at the results of these decisions in years' time, it turns out that, oh, we did well, and society takes it of course, too, that what then is, so it should be. I am pleased that two of these issues have been mentioned in this report. One is about privatisation, and the other is about the difference in political landscape formation in three countries. Whether we are talking about the Riigikogu Election Act or whether the Estonian state, for example, supports democracy from the state budget, these decisions, note this, were not the ones that the electorate or the media would applaud. But thanks to them, we can say that we have less corruption. We do not have to be ashamed of ourselves if we go to one of our fateful countries and ask what kind of party is that, and our colleague from the parliament of another country says that this is the party of this and this gentleman. I've had this ugly story in my life that I didn't understand what I was told because I was trying to find out from the perspective of the world. We have managed to stay away from these things, but this has happened because of decisions that were certainly not popular at the time of adoption. Looking at the columns above our columns, it is wise to consider which higher columns we will then move towards. I'm sorry I don't use words as smart as sociologists! But are they U.S. welfare society columns, or are they European welfare countries' columns? I want to express my sincere conviction that I do not think we have much choice. We are a European country, we are a small country, we are a country with limited resources, including a country with limited human resources. These columns, which should set an example for us, are the bars of the welfare states of Europe. Choosing another way would essentially mean that we should make our lives such that, I think, trust in those in power and in all political parties would become predominantly zero. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U105	Thanks! Mr Lauristin reminded us that trust is the country's greatest capital. I had the impression that at least he was relatively satisfied with it at the moment, although he pointed out that trust was easy to lose but extremely difficult to restore. Now, if we remind you of these stupid cluster laws and social misconceptions, my question to you, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is this: how far can we now be from losing trust? I'm not talking about centimeters or miles here, I'm asking you what your gut feels like.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U106	The question was a clue to the cluster laws. They do not seriously undermine the credit facility. It is regrettable that we have dealt with matters in this way, but it is relatively easy to repair, and it does not break our trust credit so much, in my opinion at least. Obviously, when we talk about credit, we are still talking about the important social and political reforms that we are still facing. These are difficult reforms. They should be negotiated and generally conducted according to the expectations of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U107	Good waitress! Thank you! No further questions. Before we go to the negotiations, I would like to say thank you again to the Estonian Cooperation Assembly and all the authors for this great work! I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The authors of the Human Development Report! This time the Human Development Report has been considered to be more positive and commendable in Estonia than in the past. The comparison between Latvia and Estonia and Lithuania and Estonia is likely to always affect us in such a way that we feel a little more about it. However, a number of fundamental problems that emerge from the new report cannot be overlooked. In addition to positive achievements, such as the good performance of Estonian children in PISA studies, we must also talk about the second half of the medal, the teachers' low wage and their undervalued contribution to work. According to the report, the main problem facing the Estonian state is the collapse of the population, amplified by under-funding of health care and social protection, socially and economically ill-considered labour and wage policies, the incoherence of the educational model with the development needs of the society and the lack of consensus on integration policies. True, the main warning in last year's Human Development Report was that the greatest and irreparable threat of the economic crisis could be the loss of human resources. Obviously, the authors of the report simply need to have determination and strength, talk and talk until the decision makers listen. So far, the Estonian state has not been able to shape a comprehensive policy aimed at solving strategic problems of national sustainability. But that does not mean that we should not continue to warn and knock on our conscience. We have taken measures that will slightly prolong life expectancy, but we have not been able to address the problem of population decline. For example, the current family benefit system primarily supports the birth of children, but ignores the fact that the cost of raising a child will increase considerably. The child benefit rate has remained at the level of 1997. That means it's no longer helping families. Although child poverty has become dangerous in the context of the economic crisis and the rise in unemployment, it has become more and more common that perhaps not every school child should have a healthy free school lunch. We believe that cutting and saving children should be deplorable. In difficult times, the state should rather contribute to children, because it is very important for the survival of the nation. The social policy of the Baltic countries is still characterised by a relatively low overall level of social protection, underfinanced labour policy and a high proportion of long-term unemployed. While universal social security systems in health care, pension and unemployment insurance were able to balance society during the crisis, the lack of coordinated work, pay, retraining and coping policies to increase people's security affected many of the so-called 'legs' who were left alone by their concerns. Emigration is the most intense among young people and it is a serious concern for the sustainability of the Estonian state. Emigration is driven by the very high levels of youth unemployment, for which the government has not been able to develop effective measures. It is claimed that long-term unemployment is inevitable. It is claimed that high unemployment in Estonia is inevitable. However, the Centre Party has made a number of proposals to improve youth labour policies, such as the Employment Creation Act or social tax exemption for entrepreneurs when employing an unemployed youth. In addition, the report's health policy chapter, which did not find a more comprehensive approach today, is a concern. The number of people not covered by social security rises as an increasingly acute problem in society as well, which in Estonia has remained in the range of 5 to 6% of the total population. According to European principles, this percentage is too high for Estonia. Uninsured residents will only have access free of charge to emergency care for life-threatening conditions, but both family doctors and local authorities will have to deal more and more with the provision of primary care to them. Unfortunately, health services are becoming increasingly inaccessible to the insured. For example, the report shows that there is an increase in the number of people for whom healthcare expenditure accounts for a dangerously high proportion of income. This has been helped by raising taxes on medicines in times of crisis. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U109	Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U110	This time, the report also deals with the political development of the Baltic States. Unfortunately, Estonia's political stability has led to an increasing number of government offices, but it is the Government's desire to turn Parliament into a mere rubber stamp. This is illustrated by a number of very important votes, such as the vote on the EFSF draft held this autumn in the Riigikogu, which was conducted without an in-depth parliamentary debate. The decision was rushed through. The Centre Party Group was and is of the opinion that such a wide-ranging commitment should have been preceded by a thorough parliamentary debate involving experts. Such important decisions are not taken in the urgency procedure. That is why we proposed that, as today, the report on human development should be discussed as an important national issue, the issue of Estonia's international commitments and participation in financial mechanisms should also be discussed. A promise was made that this would be done, but until today, no initiative has come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs to implement this promise. If so far, as a Nordic nation, we have been prepared to make social sacrifices in the name of economic success, I am thinking here of cuts in the crisis, the abolition of country support and funeral support, the abolition of free return of pensions, the increase in VAT, the partial cancellation of student loans and the reduction of student grants and wage cuts, the demonstration with over a thousand participants in front of Parliament this week showed that the cuts will no longer be tolerated. Estonians have accepted the difficult economic situation and constantly tightened their belts, but today the situation is in such a phase that the belt holes have run out and the government's further ignorance leads specialists out of Estonia. Last year, when we listened to the Human Development Report, we discussed whether the path chosen by the country was right to become a Scandinavian welfare state. Today, it has to be said that the wages of important public servants such as teachers, doctors, police and rescue workers are too low, the rural deficit and the lack of access to health care, and the persistently high unemployment has led to the development of the country to Scandinavia, where the individual's contribution is more valued than in Estonia. I think that these discussions here should put at least 101 members of the Riigikogu in mind the idea that the delay in the solution to the problems that are important for human development will lead to a shortage of human resources and put the sustainability of the Estonian language and cultural space in a globalised world at serious risk in the next few decades. At the end of the year, our people will be counted on the census. The result of the census came as a cold shower for Latvia and Lithuania. Estonia will probably also find out not very happy figures, but perhaps this little shock will make us think about how to convince people to stay in Estonia and how to call them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U111	Thank you. I ask Mr Andres Herkel, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U112	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union first thanks the authors of the Human Development Report. This is once again an extremely necessary overview, which has given rise to proper discussions outside the Riigikogu in recent months. It seems to me that the report's authors are good politicians, in the sense that if some of the previous reports were toned to a minimum and the politician was able to make a proper contribution there, one might recall the treatment of imbalances in regional development, the current reference focus with Latvia and Lithuania, which we are discussing today, in turn, cherishes our self-esteem to an appropriate extent. However, I hope that it will continue to spur our will to catch up with the highly developed countries. In one picture, Greece, among these countries, was also depicted here, which makes it wonder how the current debt crisis in European countries could affect the human development of different countries in the coming years. There is certainly reason to follow this closely. Maybe there's some sort of convergence going on here for us. In any case, Estonia's authority and position is unexpectedly high in the face of the turmoil that is taking place among the countries of the euro area. We're just like we're okay, only our level of human development is lower. I have often been in contact with foreign colleagues on this subject. In addition to accepting financial compliments, we often have to answer that yes, we are really all right, but look, our wage level is significantly below yours, it is such a'small' difference. At the same time, it seems that strict monetary policy has, in the past, brought us a dividend and perhaps will continue to do so. I, too, was quite impressed by the article by the Lithuanian Zenonas Norkus, which analyses the underlying reasons why Estonia has been better off from Latvia and Lithuania in 20 years. Yes, one of these reasons was certainly rapid privatisation, which did not create very favourable opportunities for corruption, as happened in many other parts of the world. Yes, it is because of a balanced budget, including the collection of reserves. In the case of reserves, it was said why they should be collected when we need money in so many areas. But when the last crisis came, the reserves were one of the great differences that put us in a better position than our southern neighbours. Reserves the cost of overcoming the crisis. Further mention should be made of the development and consolidation of banking, more foreign investment, better predictable and more consensus-based policies. Despite the fact that differences have also been great, the consensus on Estonia's policy choices has been monitored at decisive moments. Slot 'Plats clear! ' We are still somewhat ironically or pejoratively reminded, but Norkus, as an observer, considers that this was to a large extent the basis for success, which helped us to tear away the Soviet legacy faster and more decisively than the neighbours could do. I would also like to highlight the inclusion of language policy in this review. In my opinion, language policy was not so thoroughly dealt with in previous reports concerning Estonia. Yes, there is reason to note that in 20 years the position of Estonian language is... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U113	When a person is constantly told that everyone is the blacksmith of his own happiness, and that is the only way to happiness, he does so. Except he's making his luck somewhere else, not here, because there he gets paid more for blacksmithing. That's not the solution. The solution is that we pay our blacksmiths here so much as they're happy. One typical example of unanswered questions and that we need to contribute more to human resources is health, in my opinion. Across the world, it is known that most of the wealth produced is spent in the interests of human health anyway. We consistently, even in elections for example, are not launching a debate on this issue, we are not answering that question. Any minister in the government coalition currently has such choices: either to shorten treatment queues and to risk doctors leaving Estonia, or to increase the wages of doctors a little bit and extend treatment queues. This situation cannot go on indefinitely; at one point a major step must be taken. This is an example of undecided things. Finally, briefly, the dangers I find haunting us. The first is indecision. The example of health is typical. Somehow it ticks, you can go to the doctor, Estonia is brought as an example to the rest of the world and it is said to do as here, everything here is transparent and right. But the big questions are unsolved. The second level is politics. We are used to voting, perhaps we are used to majority democracy. Is it not time to practice something else, namely consensus democracy? If my colleague from our group goes out of the hall after voting on our draft and a member of the coalition comes to him and says that there is nothing to be done, in the interests of domestic peace, it had to be voted out, then the question arises as to how long we will be voting out things that have three-quarters of a room in favour of. This is the level at which the countries with a higher column than we have reached, there is more debate, more consensus and less voting. The third threat, which is particularly felt with regard to recent events in Europe, is falling into umbilical awe. There is such a substantive contradiction, which is found not only in Estonia but throughout Europe. This is a contradiction between integration and isolation. Here I am, dear friends, calling on all politicians, regardless of their political affiliation, to think with a clear mind and to be more in favour of integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U114	Thank you! I, too, must go to the vote. I hope that we will see a consensus-based vote here. In particular, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed extending today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which reads as follows: to extend the sitting, if necessary, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 43 members of the Riigikogu, 1 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Let's move on with the negotiations. I ask the representative of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, Paul-Eerik Rummo, to the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U115	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! Honourable guests! According to some expectations, the retro-reflection of the Human Development Report has focused on whether these broadly quite positive figures and estimates of Estonia can be realistic, whether this report, in this form and in such an unpublistical but academically calm tone as it is, will not give the government coalition a boost to its alleged unbridled self-mongering and the continuation of anti-popular politics, eye flaps on its head and pink glasses ahead. Many commentators have said derogatoryly to our good neighbours Latvia and Lithuania that the report has set the bar too low when Estonia is compared with the stumps such as Latvia and Lithuania, against which it is not difficult to look longer and more beautiful. Such reactions signal a national masochism that has become something of a habit, which we should shake ourselves apart once and for all, so that we do not, by constantly eating ourselves from the inside, harm our own will for action, prospects, survival and further development. Dear Riigikogu! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to confirm that this group and party are realistic, sober and critical enough not to rest on the laurels of relative success. We understand that Estonia's economic and humanitarian status must also be measured in a broader context than only its immediate neighbours and historical counterparts. I would point out that, in fact, the background to this report is much broader than it seems at first sight due to the introduction of Latvia and Lithuania. Data, methodologies, demanding indicators have been used, which place Estonia in a broader, very demanding context related to the OECD and other organisations. The Reform Party, like any serious party, has its own answers and plans for all the issues highlighted in the report. These answers and plans are reflected in the party's programme and, to a large extent, in the programme of the government union and in the action plan of the political group and government based on it. All of this cannot be stopped because of a lack of time. I would like to highlight three issues which significantly determine progress in the overall context. First of all, definitely education. I think it is very right that, when discussing this report, a separate report was made in addition to the general report, namely the report on the education section. It's indicative. Initiatives to modernise the education system in order to increase the ability of every person to become a free and able person with independent decision-making and operational capacity are known to members of the Riigikogu. There are already some drafts on this subject in our proceedings. This work is in constant consultation with the broadest educational public. In addition, I will highlight a few crucial details. Paying more attention to the implementation of entrepreneurship education and career guidance at all levels of education is something that we consider extremely important for solving educational, economic, administrative and social policy problems, releasing creative energy in every person and shaping their knowledge, skills and competences, which will allow this energy to be harnessed most fertilely and to provide people with satisfaction. We also want to promote social education and civic education, because a lack of understanding of the mechanisms of society as a free community of free people and the role and responsibility of each person in it is not only a brake on the further development of the life of the people and the state, but also causes people's inability to manage their own lives, dependence on others and populist manipulation. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U116	Thank you. I ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U117	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U118	Second, legislation. This is an issue which is not reflected in the Human Development Report as a separate chapter, but what is felt as a background factor throughout the report, especially in Chapter 6 'Political development'. We in this Parliament, as a legislative body, have reason to think through this aspect in depth, because it is through us, as elected representatives, that the people shape a legal foundation and frame for their lives and development, that regulations are determined which, in the best possible way, must promote human development, be practically applicable, understand every person in his right mind and avoid excessive restrictions and over-regulation of minor matters. It is very good to know that the basic rules and practice of lawmaking are now being shaped more seriously than ever before, which, among other things, lays the foundations for a better understanding between citizens and the state apparatus implementing the law and takes down the pointless friction that hinders development. Although the report shows that the public's confidence in the institutions of state authority is considerably higher in Estonia than in its neighbours and comparable to the peoples with a much longer experience of statehood and democracy, we ourselves know that there is still room for progress, and the development of good lawmaking practices is one of the most important directions on this path. Thirdly, everything that concerns civil society and which is concentrated in the report is contained in chapter 6.5, but also echoes the report as a whole. In the eyes of the Reform Party, whose birth document was the Manifesto of the State of Citizens, the development of free citizens' self-initiative is crucial. Our programmes are intended to deepen citizens' awareness and continue to support the development of a cooperation network specific to civil society and to encourage volunteering to address the everyday challenges faced by local communities and sectoral associations on an ongoing basis. It is a developed civil society that can develop an optimal solution for organising state and local administration. Together with the objectives set out above, the deepening of civic education in schools and the broad consideration of citizens' will in lawmaking all relate to the proposals set out in the Human Development Report aimed at strengthening civil society, which is the safest guarantee that the next report will show that the problems currently highlighted and the obstacles to development are overcome. The Reform Party Group welcomes the constructive and thorough nature of the report and will certainly use the report's conclusions to shape its future activities. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U119	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I am pleased to represent myself here, because the representatives of all the political groups have already received the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear authors of the Estonian Human Development Report! Thank you very much for this work, too. I think you have carried out a much-needed analysis of the development of the three Baltic countries over the last 20 years. I honestly confess to you that if we have usually tried to compare ourselves with Finland, Sweden or Denmark, it has always seemed a little artificial to me. Why? I speak in mathematical language: if the initial conditions of the problems are vastly different, we can hardly get the same result. If we look at the conditions in which the Baltic countries were in 20 years ago and in which Nordic countries, it is clear that this time has been short in order to level out all the differences, but we are definitely moving in this direction. We are now analysing the three Baltic States. There were certain differences between them too, but they were not so great. We can say that, in fact, all these countries started from one starting position. This analysis has drawn very many interesting conclusions. Many of the conclusions have already sounded in this Chamber. For example, it was very interesting for me that the privatisation option chosen by Estonia was perhaps the most successful. Having come from a litter called "Education and Science," I also enjoyed a thorough analysis of education. I agree with Professor Lauristin, with whom we spoke quietly, so that it is time to reach political debates on educational issues. Education is a long-jumping process. Its fruits will not come out in four years, they will come out in a much longer time, but the decisions we have to make will soon be needed. The level of education of people is particularly serious. I have said several times that the problem is not the large number of educated women, which is usually sought to talk about when it comes to gender inequality. We have very serious problems because of the large number of uneducated young men. Analysis carried out by the University of Tartu in 2009 showed that 75% of graduates are women, 25% are men. I'm sorry, but it's also gender inequality, which leads to a lot of social inequality. This problem does not start from an graduate school; it starts very early, not even from the final classes of primary school, but from the first classes of primary school. I think we need to focus our attention there. But like I said, I really like the education part of the report. I found a great challenge. The 'Five Challenges of Estonian Education' strategy states as the fourth challenge: 'Strengthening the link between education and the knowledge society and the innovative economy. Situation: Estonia's goal is to move towards an innovative knowledge economy by adapting its economic structure accordingly. Economic renewal requires educated leaders and a modern-prepared workforce. ' Then it is clearly shown... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U121	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U122	... that, indeed, a very large proportion, about one third of the Estonian working age population is without vocational or higher education, i.e. without professional qualifications. I think we have no idea what this knowledge- or knowledge-based society is. A knowledge-based society has existed, in my opinion, ever since man came to earth. Fathers taught sons and mothers taught daughters. But what's the difference here these days? The difference is that our children or grandchildren are teaching us today. This means that a person's knowledge is not sufficient and that he must constantly learn more. This is a very serious thing, this lifelong learning syndrome that has now arisen. I'll come back to the report. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you sitting there? I still consider myself your colleague, I'm also a professor. I have a request for you. You attach great importance to the knowledge-based and innovative economy, but why have you not discussed at all how the reorganization of science has taken place in the Baltic States, what about innovation issues? 20 years ago, we started with very different models. We can compare ourselves to the countries of the Eastern bloc. There is often preserved an old Soviet-era research system where academic institutes and universities are separate. I expect such a very thorough analysis to be carried out. I will support it if you come up with this analysis next year. Since I have a little more time, let me make another suggestion. 20 years ago, there was certainly a different situation in agriculture and rural areas. You're looking at me and you're asking me why I'm suddenly going to talk about things like this, but it seems to me that this direction, too, hasn't been very well analyzed. We have a lot of legends about who has killed agriculture and who else has done what. I think it would be very interesting if we were to discuss this issue, which has taken place in rural and agricultural areas, on the basis of the three Baltic states. It is again a request that you suddenly address this issue and, in addition to what Mr Herkel has proposed, namely, the problems of defence. So, good analysts, I hope that next year, when you come here with a new report on human development in Estonia, you will also have analysed these issues there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U123	Thank you very much. You have at least one question. Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U124	We are going to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the utility model law, the patent law, the law on the basis of industrial property law and the state fee law initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be asked by Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U125	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, what is left of us? In the Committee on Economic Affairs, we were in the process of sending the draft law amending the utility model law, the patent law, the Industrial Property Law Act and the State Fees Act to a second reading. Amendments were also received between the first and second readings, most of which were of a relatively technical nature, but only one was substantive. This concerned the fact that the data of the Patent Office could also be stored electronically in the national consolidated electronic database. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed sending the draft to second reading at two meetings: 18 October and 24 October. Ago Pelisar, Adviser to the Quality Infrastructure Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Matti Päts, Director-General of the Patent Office, and Viive Kübar, Head of the Legal Department of the Office, also performed. The Committee on Economic Affairs voted through these amendments and decided to send the draft to its second reading on 27 October, today, to propose to the plenary that the second reading of draft No 5 be stopped, and when the second reading of the draft is completed, to make the third reading on 9 November and to adopt the draft as a law. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U126	Thank you! Any questions for the waitress? It is. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U127	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you a polite question, but since I don't know how to ask a smart question about it, I'm gonna ask you a stupid question. We have had the euro in use for almost a year. How much longer do we set state fees of 31 euros and 95 cents?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U128	The question is how to deal with this situation. The euro should not, as we know, increase the price. You don't want to round it up, you don't want to round it down. I don't even know what these sums are from. If you look at the state fee law in general, the state fee should cover the costs of the proceedings. I assume that this EUR 31.95 comes from the fact that it accurately covers these costs. I think so, but I have not carried out an economic analysis of whether expenditure is exactly like this or slightly different.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-27_U129	Good waitress! I thank you for your report and your answer. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will begin the examination of the amendments to Bill No 5. Eight amendments have been received. All have been presented by the lead committee, the view is that they should be fully taken into account. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth amendments. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading of Bill 5 should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the fourth item is closed. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I wish you strength and success in your work. Closure of the sitting at 12.56 p.m.
