ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! Happy New Semester for everyone, too! I really hope that the Riigikogu is like a sharp pencil who means the wisdom of zeroa dies sine linea. What it means, let everyone have a homework to explain it. We will begin the session of the first working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. First of all, are there any drafts or inquiries? No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 14 September, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Mart Laar and Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 12 are missing. Let's clarify the agenda. Kadri Simson, Member of the Riigikogu, will make a presentation of the initiators during the discussion on the draft Act amending the Social Tax and Income Tax Act initiated by today's second item, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U2	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. We have discussions on four draft laws on the agenda. May I draw your attention for a moment to the fact that we have started our working day? The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Useful Model Act, the Patent Act, the Industrial Property Law Foundations Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, Have a nice year of work for me too! This draft fell out of the procedure as a draft initiated by the government following the end of the previous parliamentary term, and two political groups have re-opened it to parliamentary proceedings. The draft concerns the improvement of the regulatory environment in the area of industrial property law enforcement. Two major changes, in addition to bringing existing national law into line with the new version of the Convention on the Issue of European Patents, namely the European Patent Convention, are as follows: First. As we know, good models have so far been given legal protection without any substantive expertise. Therefore, registrations of useful models have less legal certainty than patents. The draft should provide additional legal protection for useful models. A useful model for law enforcement must meet the novelty criterion. Regardless of the circumstances under which an application for registration of a utility model that is not defensive has been made, it is clear that this hinders fair economic activity. In order to improve the situation, a procedure for searching for state of the art will be introduced at the Patent Office. Another important change concerns the introduction in Estonia of a new type of licence, the so-called "public non-exclusive licence', in the area of industrial property law. The principle of this type of licence is that the owner of a utility model who does not wish to use his own invention or is not able to do so due to a lack of resources or for other reasons may be allowed to use the invention for a given licence fee. This will certainly encourage the legal protection of both patents and other industrial property, as well as their application to fair economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U4	Thank you, Urmas Reinsalu! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. I would like to present the Chair of the Economic Commission Chair, Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed draft No 5 at its two meetings on 9 and 13 June. The draft was presented at the meeting of the Commission by Urmas Reinsalu, representative of the initiators of the draft, Maris Merilo, Head of the Quality Infrastructure Service of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Raul Kartus, Adviser to the Legal Department of the Patent Office. The main debate took place on the terms of the draft and on the reasons why such a draft is needed at the moment. The questions also concerned a public non-exclusive licence, which is what it is. As a result of this debate, the Commission decided to propose to the Assembly that the first reading of draft No 5 be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 12 noon on 27 September 2011. Both decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U6	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft amendments. a on September 27, 2005 at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U7	We will go to the second item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Tax and Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Kadri Simson, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you, on behalf of the initiators, Bill No 14, draft law amending the Social Tax and Income Tax Act. The purpose of the draft law is to improve the situation of self-employed persons in Estonia by reducing advance social contributions. It also provides for an additional tax exemption for self-employed fish up to EUR 2877 per year. Then why do we think that self-employed people need protection? Self-employment should be the easiest form of enterprise according to any logic, but this is certainly not the case in Estonia at present. Rather, more and more people say that people who have chosen to be self-employed have put themselves in an unduly difficult situation. Statistics also show that there are fewer and fewer self-employed people. The number of self-employed has decreased significantly. On the one hand, it has played a role in the fact that self-employed persons were obliged to register in a commercial register, but that is not the only reason. While there were 34520 self-employed persons in the Commercial Register at the time of the transfer to the Riigikogu in April, the number has now decreased by more than 200. Clearly, the tax burden is too much for too many people. If you look at the unemployment fund's data, you can see that every month, over a hundred people have ceased their business as entrepreneurs and registered as unemployed. It must be borne in mind that a person who gives himself a job is certainly much more useful to the state. It would make sense for us to reduce the tax burden that has proved too great. Before the elections, coalition parties promised to promote small entrepreneurship in Estonia, including improving the situation of self-employed persons, such as the introduction of a licence tax. Unfortunately, real results have not been achieved and nothing has followed. Self-employed persons are in a much worse situation than a private limited company. In particular, the problem of self-employed persons is the advance payments of income and social security contributions. While it is possible to get rid of advance income tax payments by submitting an application to the tax office, advances in social tax must also be paid in the absence of income. This must be done by the 15th day of the third month of each quarter for the current quarter, three times the amount calculated from the monthly rate mentioned in § 21 of the Social Tax Act (the monthly rate is 278 euros and 2 euro cents). At the same time, it is easy in a private limited company: if you do not pay your salary, you will not pay social tax. However, self-employed people are forced to pay 275 euros and 24 cents of social tax each quarter, whether they have any business income or not. On the basis of the aggregate figures provided by natural persons in 2009, the average taxable quarterly income of the self-employed was EEK 7850, from which the social tax should actually be paid EEK 3591, i.e. EUR 229 51 cents. According to the Bill, a self-employed person would pay social tax no less than 8 times the monthly rate mentioned in § 21. This means that, on the 15th day of the third month of each quarter, the self-employed person must pay advance payments for the current quarter in the amount calculated on a double monthly basis, i.e. EUR 183 instead of the current EUR 275. We were asked in the Commission why we are reducing the burden of this advance payment by only a third, whether we did not want to be so kind as to bring it to zero if there is no service in one month or one quarter at all. However, we believe that once the self-employed person has ceased to exist, it is correct that he actually does so and, if necessary, either register as unemployed or take up another occupation. But at the moment, it must be seen that very many self-employed workers are active in areas where, in fact, the minimum wage per month does not receive a service. In its opinion on the draft, the Ministry of Finance said that the introduction of such an exception would reduce the future pension of the self-employed, as the payment of social security contributions on the minimum monthly wage is a prerequisite for obtaining one year's pension insurance. This is probably also the biggest guarantee that self-employed persons would not intentionally start showing their income less. Every person thinks about his or her pension and needs to know that if he or she is unable to pay social security contributions in full, at least on the minimum wage, then his or her pension will continue to suffer. But the counter argument here is that the current situation in which self-employed persons are simply in debt to the Tax and Customs Board does not show that they would like a smaller pension, it simply shows that they are in trouble. If there is no money and there is no money, it is not possible to pay taxes. Does the Ministry of Finance really think that the current situation is better, where self-employed people simply fail to pay advances, where they face defaults, where self-employed people end up working, and where they go to supplement the list of unemployed people? Even if a person has been on the list of unemployed people for too long instead of giving himself a job, he or she will receive a national pension instead of an old-age pension. Paragraph 2 of the draft law allows the self-employed person, in addition to the tax exemption, to receive an additional tax exemption of EUR 2877 per year for the disposal of self-fished fish in the case of the transfer of agricultural products and timber from his own immovable property. This section concerns Estonian coastal fishermen, who are very unevenly distributed across Estonia: coastal fishermen live where there is a beach and where fish is near the beach. These people are not many, according to various figures, about one and a half thousand. Compared to those already receiving such tax relief in agriculture or as private forest owners, this figure is very low. But the beach fishermen have had the same support they had for farmers since the last century. It was discussed in the Riigikogu in 1995, such visits were made by the fishermen of Hiiu and Saaremaa as early as 1998. The last such address came to the members of the Riigikogu in June of this year. This draft grants coastal fishermen the same exemption as farmers and private forest owners who are self-employed. Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, when this draft was discussed, the Minister of Finance thought that when coastal fishermen are having a difficult time, it was not because they have too much tax burden, but because fish on the beach are simply few and there are too many beach fishermen. Actually, the beach fish have been reduced a lot. In a large number of municipalities, people operating in the fisheries sector represent a significant proportion of the working population. You cannot take such a condescending view of this traditional field of activity. The amendment of § 32 of the Income Tax Act and the introduction of an additional tax exemption for the realisation of self-fished fish reduces income tax revenue by EUR 3,5 million. The reduction of the advance social tax obligation affects the collection of social tax into the state budget, but the reduction arises for those self-employed whose actual income is below the current three-fold minimum rate. On the basis of the data available to us, it is not possible to calculate precisely how many self-employed people actually receive less income each quarter than the current social tax rate provides. This amount can be indicatively EUR 4 million. If we bear in mind that the Ministry of Finance forecasts that more social tax will be collected next year alone, this EUR 4 million tax relief from the self-employed will not represent a significant percentage of the increase in social tax. Of the total amount of social tax of EUR 1.7 billion, this is quite a drop. It must be borne in mind that this measure will enable many people to return to a situation where they give themselves a job, pay all taxes and also pay social tax in two-thirds. So I ask the Riigikogu to discuss this issue. In some ways, this issue of self-employed people also gives the coalition ambassadors the opportunity (if the first reading is not interrupted, the draft goes on to the Commission) because the promise to simplify the situation of self-employed people is back on the table. Thank you for your attention and I am grateful for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U9	Thank you. You have questions. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I believe you have brought yourself up to date on this matter. I just have a technical question. If a self-employed person has paid a certain amount of advance social tax in one calendar year, but when he declares income, it turns out that he has received less income in the same calendar year and has paid more advance income tax, so what happens to the rest of the money? Will it go in advance next year, or will the self-employed get it back?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U11	Of course, the relationship between self-employed and the state must also be looked at. The right thing is that self-employed people should not give the state a loan in advance, put their money down there and set off at the end of the year. Since the state is so overwhelmingly stronger in this partnership, at the end of the year it would be better to make this offsetting more beneficial to the self-employed. The situation is, self-employed people pay up front and put their money down there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U12	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U13	Thank you. Honourable waitress! It is well known to you as a senior member of the Riigikogu that there is not enough social tax receipts to pay pensions, and the missing money is taken from other tax revenues. You want to reduce social tax receipts further next year. At the same time, it is known that we will have the budget for next year in the projected deficit, so there will be no current and other tax revenues, and the money will have to be taken from reserves. From which reserve do you recommend covering this missing portion, or are you suggesting borrowing the missing money from international financial markets?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U14	Thank you for your question. Our starting point is probably different. You will look at the budget lines and try to find on page 134 the part of the table with either a positive or a negative number. We're looking at people. We are looking at the fact that in recent years a hundred self-employed people have stopped every month because the tax burden is too high, and a hundred self-employed people have registered as unemployed. We believe that the state must take some measures to bring these people back to a situation where they give themselves a job and become taxpayers. I repeat: we do not give a gift to the self-employed, two thirds of the social tax rate is still borne by the self-employed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U15	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U16	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Doesn't it seem to you that the government coalition is trying to essentially dismantle self-employment as a form of enterprise, because the laws relating to self-employment are quite predatory and, let's say, disincentive to entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U17	Feel the feeling. I have read the first statements of the government coalition and noticed that at least the promise has been made, the problem of self-employed people has been acknowledged, and the government coalition has also promised to simplify the situation of the self-employed. I look forward to further developing the subject of the introduction of a self-employed licence tax. Today, this problem is simply a matter of extending hands and saying that doing nothing is also the solution. In fact, such a tax burden puts a very large number of people at a disadvantage, operating in simpler areas where it makes no sense to form a private limited company or a public limited company. You should think about these people. I repeat, after all, that taxes will remain, we will not create any tax-free business sector. We are simply reducing the burden that has been increased not very long ago, and we hope that this will give a great many people reason to start giving themselves a job again and they will see the reason to do this work registered, taxed. Perhaps the state will gain more from this reduction in the tax burden than it is currently losing, both in terms of human resources and in terms of tax receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U18	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, First, two words for a reminder. The idea of imposing a social tax obligation on self-employed persons was very clear and simple: to treat different forms of enterprise equally and also to provide additional resources for the social security budget, which is known to pay for medical care expenditure. But here's the question. Have you done an analysis of self-employment and private limited company as a form of enterprise for any other reason in the preparation of this draft? Which is a more comfortable, cheaper, rational and rational choice for a person who wants to do business? Have you carried out such an analysis and what the outcome would be?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U20	Thank you for your question. Before I answer the question, I will respond to the reply that the aim of increasing the tax burden on self-employed people was to treat different forms of enterprise equally. Here is the question: if the company does not pay the salary, social tax will not be paid for this income. However, if the self-employed earn nothing during the month, he will retain the advance payments. Indeed, when it comes to dealing with entrepreneurs, it is said quite arrogantly that only such simple people have remained self-employed because it is not economically profitable. In a private limited company or a public limited company, it is much easier to make the payment more favourable to the company than the self-employed. But if there is a view in Estonia that a person can work for himself, then the understanding that self-employment could be the easiest form of enterprise should also be maintained. We in the Riigikogu can again make it possible for this form of enterprise to make sense. If we're looking at equality, there's a lot of advantages for a limited company right now, but that's not how it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U21	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U22	Thank you. The second question is about fishermen. Have beach fishermen had any alternative options? Actually, it's like a way of life. It's not like doing a job, it's a way of life. Have there also been any alternatives to the debate to support, not through social tax, but in a different way?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U23	Thank you for your question. For those who have a summer house in a beautiful beach area, it may be a way of life, but for men who make a living with it, it is a profession. There are about one and a half thousand men in Estonia who do it professionally and live from it. In fact, all kinds of alternatives may be available, but coastal fishermen in different associations have asked for the same additional income tax exemption as farmers have. When it is said that farmers and private forest owners have been granted an exception and we do not want to extend the derogations, I would remind you that private forest owners did not have this exception in the year before. The same Riigikogu decided to extend the exception. We cannot say that the exceptions are unacceptable to the current government. This exception has just come into force. Of course, in this case, the coastal fishermen, who, in their dealings with the European Union's counterparts, see such derogations being granted in other countries, want the same equal treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U24	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U25	Thank you. I fully agree that this issue, which was raised by the previous questioner, deserves attention because the rule is that direct support from the budget tends to be a lot cheaper than tax relief. But that's not what I wanted to ask. What you said about the remote control was that a private limited company is a more useful or useful form of enterprise for a small or micro enterprise than a self-employed person, because it is possible to include more costs in business costs. Did I really hear you right? Can you give an example of what the specific advantages of a private limited company are and what are the costs that can be more costed than a self-employed person?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U26	The problem with self-employed people is advance payments. While it is possible for the self-employed to get rid of advances in income tax when submitting an application, it is not possible for them to get rid of advances in social tax, even if there is no activity. This is the bill to ease this burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U27	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U28	Thank you. I was a little hurt when you answered Aivar Sõerdi and accused Aivar that Aivar was looking at the budget lines, but you're looking at people. That's how I got it. It sounded like you'd found another source of cover to pay off social expenditure, for example. Maybe you'll shed some light on where you can find the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U29	Thank you for your question. Don't feel so hurt on the fourth bench, it was more of a compliment to Aivar Sõerd. We all remember that at the time he became the best finance minister in the world, he was a very strong number expert. But you have to look at it more widely. If we apply more people to a situation where they work for themselves and become taxpayers (they pay not only social tax but also income tax), then more taxpayers will also mean more efficient income for the Estonian state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U30	Next question. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U31	I don't know about the best people in the world here, but I've come to the point that this bill doesn't have anything to do with the lack of pension insurance. If they pay less taxes, they will receive less pensions in the future. The deficit in pension insurance has arisen for other reasons. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U32	Thank you for your question. As far as I can tell, you've got this whole thing right.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U33	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kadri Simson. I ask for a presentation of Urve Tiidus, member of the Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U34	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The following is a summary of the procedure for amending the Social Tax and Income Tax Act No 14 in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. On 13 June, at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it was decided that the substantive debate on the draft would take place on 12 September, i.e. yesterday. That's what happened. The draft was presented to the Commission by Kadri Simson, the representative of the initiators. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, and Mr Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, also attended the meeting of the Commission. Minister Ligi explained the government's position on the draft. The tax exemptions that the reduction of advance payments of the self-employed social contributions and the additional deduction of income tax in the draft proposal meant were not considered to be correct. In general, self-employed people do not pay a lot of taxes (of course not all self-employed persons are concerned) and, in such a legislative amendment, they would be even less involved in paying social tax. At the same time, social security and health care are used in solidarity. That was the position. The initiator of the draft act was asked in the Commission why the level of social tax payments for self-employed workers would be reduced by one third. The previous speaker has already explained this, according to Kadri Samson, it is planned to restore the previous level. To comment on Kadri Simson's information that the number of self-employed persons is constantly decreasing, the Minister said that the person has no obligation to use self-employed persons as an entrepreneurial form, alternative options are to work on the basis of a contract of employment or, for example, to set up a private limited company, which can now (this is my reply) be done with zero euros. According to the Minister, the reduction in the number of self-employed persons is also linked to the logic that, if the business does not pay off, the self-employed will cease to be. However, statistics say that not all self-employed people become unemployed, that is partly done, that other forms of enterprise are also chosen. The Commission asked whether self-employed fishermen's organisations themselves had expressed their interest in the additional possibility of tax deduction. According to Mrs Kadri Simson, there have been many requests from fishermen for tax reductions. We heard from a previous report that in June they made an appeal. The Government's reply stated that the budget would lose if a tax credit were granted, but a lower tax liability would not improve the situation in the fisheries sector in substance. I quote the Minister: the problem is that there are more fishermen than fish and there are no more fish when making tax incentives for coastal fishermen. That is, of course, the case. As a result of this debate, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is proposing to the Riigikogu to reject this draft today at first reading. There was a vote, 6 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs voted in favour of the proposal and 3 votes against. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U35	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U36	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Indeed, I am pleased to hear that, both from the point of view of the Government of the Republic and from the result of the vote, you are very concerned about the receipt of social tax. I believe that we will certainly hear similar arguments when you start introducing a social tax ceiling. You are then extremely concerned that tax receipts may therefore be reduced. But my question stems from this argument, which you have naturally discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and which has also been mentioned in the position of the Government of the Republic, namely that the number of self-employed persons has decreased significantly. That's a fact. Did you analyze, or did the government give you an overview of how many of these self-employed people who no longer pay social tax have joined the ranks of thousands of people without health insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U37	Such statistics were not provided by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U38	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I know that North-Estonian beach fishermen would have been offered tax relief to provide real support. But my question is this: do the Saaremaa coastal fishermen expect such support from you and this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U40	Thank you, Lembit Kaljuvee! The coastal fishermen of Saaremaa have not approached me, even though they know that this draft amendment to the Social Tax and Income Tax Act is on the agenda. It is true with fishermen that many of the coastal fishermen really are self-employed, but the fact is that most fishermen, including those who operate as self-employed fishermen, are still ancillary to fishing. They receive their main income either as employees or are engaged in some other business, including agriculture and forestry, many of which are pensioners. So, directly, the Saaremaa fishermen have not expressed such an interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U41	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U42	Thank you. As a consequence of the previous question, I think that, in order to get a clear picture of the problems faced by coastal fishermen and people involved in coastal fishing, we could meet them. I wanted to ask you if you've met them as a vigilante from Saaremaa. But the answer may be that you got together. I sincerely hope that before such statements, as the Minister of Finance said, that the problem is not about taxes, but about the shortage of fish, we could meet representative organisations. There's gonna be a lot of ideas about how to deal with these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U43	I didn't hear the question. I realized it was a reply. Tõnu Juul, please, next question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U44	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, thank you very much. Did the Commission also discuss whether the business market in Estonia needs a form of enterprise such as self-employment or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U45	Thank you, Tõnu Juul! The Commission did not create this discussion in this form. However, when we compare the 1990s, the first half of the late decade of the last century and the present moment of time, it is clear that the entrepreneurial form, self-employed in its own time, has gone through the arc of growth and decline that we see in the economy and in everyday life. Is that even necessary? As long as people still use self-employment as a form of entrepreneurship, I believe it is necessary. But it is also clear that now that the formation and registration of private limited companies has been made so cheap, practically tax-free, relatively easier and, let's say, the availability and diversity of business forms have become less popular with this time, of course, the self-employed are no longer so popular. However, in some areas (I know that there are many self-employed people, for example, in beauty services, among hairdressers). I think that whether such a form of enterprise is needed is perhaps a question of the coming years. But it is clear that as long as there are people who do not want to be employees, they want to be their own employers, and as long as the business they do pays off, the form of self-employment is still necessary and exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U46	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U47	Thank you. Good waitress! My question is not about receiving social tax, but my question is as follows. After all, self-employment is a starting entrepreneur's form. If we now make their lives so difficult, can we hope in the future that people will want to be entrepreneurs? These companies create the following jobs, they become larger. But if there are so many obstacles and if this law is against logic, so even if there is no income, you have to pay the tax, then maybe they turn their backs on business and become employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U48	Thank you, Tarmo Tamm! We know that when a person starts a business, it is a serious step. The exact form in which it starts it depends on the person's ability, ability, ambition, to a large extent on the existence of investments and, of course, on the needs of the market. How it moves forward on this road as an entrepreneur is very individual. Our society has lived by the rules of the market economy for 20 years. Entrepreneurship is a matter of honour and of importance to society. Our people weren't used to the fact that when you start a business, you might not, for example, achieve the result you wanted, maybe you could go bankrupt. I am in favour of whatever these forms of entrepreneurship are, they must motivate people to engage in entrepreneurship, they must inspire people to believe that they are able to deal with it, and they can rejoice that their product or service, whatever they offer, is necessary for people and that they earn a living with it. As regards the amendments to the law and the draft amendments to the Social Tax Act, which have been several here, they are simply saying that perhaps all laws relating to entrepreneurship, especially those relating to self-employed persons, need to be reviewed as a whole so that they are such as to encourage and motivate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U49	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U50	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, I have a question. When different coastal fishermen's organisations appeal to the Riigikogu and the government to be granted the same additional tax exemption as farmers, one group reacts to this appeal and the draft goes out, would it not be more correct if such a approach was worth going to a more thorough discussion and second reading of the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U51	Thank you, Kadri Simson! Of course, the issue of beach fishermen is very complex and interesting. I'll come back to one of the previous comments. Living in Saaremaa and having known the life of beach people for a lifetime, I know very well what their interests and needs are. I would have been very pleased if the letter from the coastal fishermen that came from your group in June had been in the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday. Unfortunately, I forgot to insist. It was my fault.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U52	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U53	My question concerns a situation where the draft law is simply voted out without any substantive discussion. The question that you said yesterday in the Commission was whether self-employment as a form of enterprise was needed at all. Would you describe where such discussions are to take place further? At the moment this form of enterprise is given more meaning, this bill simply goes out of procedure. How will this debate take place in this Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U54	Thank you, Kadri Simson! What is the further development of self-employment as a form of entrepreneurship? As I said before, even if we make small changes, it has been said that there are many areas of self-employment where other solutions are possible. Here earlier, it was said that, for example, permit fees and such things would be one solution. Of course, tax incentives are a very good and popular solution. In the whole picture, we'll find a lot of objections. How is this supposed to go on? Maybe we'll start by saying, Mrs. Kadri Simson, you're also sending me a letter from the beach fishermen.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U55	Thank you. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good co-worker! You said, in answer to the question of your colleague, Kadri Samson, that you are very familiar with the life of the coastal people. I ask what is one reason why the Commission does not see the possibility of referring this draft to second reading. What's one reason? Where is it so seriously wrong that this bill cannot be referred to second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U57	Thank you, George Ratas! What is one reason for this must be asked separately from all the Members of the Commission. Six members of the Commission decided to reject this draft at first reading. Let us say that the arguments relate to the same solidarity and tax exemptions. That's all I can say right now. I guess we should ask each other separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U58	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U59	Dear waitress, How do you feel if this draft had only dealt with this second point, namely the equalisation of coastal fishermen with sellers of agricultural products and timber, would it have been different for the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U60	Thank you, Jaak Allik! As far as the question is concerned, it must always be said that there was actually no such situation at the moment. However, there was a two-part draft which changed both the social tax and income tax laws. I have not been here for the adoption of previous legislative amendments that have affected tax exemptions, self-employed people working in forestry, etc. However, I am of the opinion that the more tax exemptions, the more we spend public money on administration and calculation of benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U61	Thank you. The next questioner is Marika Tuus-lauul.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U62	Thank you. Good performer! I don't quite think that fishing for Saaremaa beach fishermen is a secondary issue. I know the Peipsi area quite well, and I know that fishing is their way of life for decades, centuries. Why haven't they come to you? Do you think the reason may be that the Reform Party has not helped or stood up for them in the past? What could be the reason? We know there's been a bill like this before.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U63	Thank you for your question. In general, I am not the kind of person you dare not turn to. That's all I can say. All the islanders who have wanted to tell me something have always gotten in touch with me, they've also e-mailed their wishes. I don't think fishermen are a cowardly nation. To understand that, you still have to look close to the life of the beach people. It's the last quality of the men there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U64	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U65	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that perhaps you would have decided otherwise if you had a letter from Kadri Samson, the letter sent by the beach fishermen. Nothing's gone missing, you'll get that letter. Perhaps it would also make sense to invite coastal fishermen to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Perhaps, in future, it should be common for the Committee on Monetary Affairs to invite the senders of the letter to the Commission and to discuss matters thoroughly. Today, you can call on your fellow Members, colleagues from the Reform Party, however, to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U66	Thank you very much for your question. What am I gonna say? I say that it is one thing to grant a tax credit to good fishermen, to grant income tax exemptions to foresters and farmers. We know that there are many women among the self-employed who work for themselves. What am I gonna say? We expect letters from them too! Of course, the Riigikogu is open to proposals from the people. The more we present these coastal fishermen's proposals here to the other members of the Commission, the easier it will be for us to address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U67	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U68	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When a good colleague, Jüri Ratas, asked you what could be a specific reason for this, you answered for a very long time that this is the Commission's full opinion. But what exactly do you think is one reason why this bill cannot be sent to second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U69	As I represent the Committee on Monetary Affairs here, I also represent the Commission's democratic opinion. I see Mr. Rainer Vakra laughs at it, but that's the procedure here. However, if I speak quite seriously and repeat this issue of tax exemptions again, I must say that I, too, personally, am of the opinion that, although tax exemptions have been adopted in good faith in their own time, on the basis of the conditions and perceptions of the time, it is not very reasonable to create more of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U70	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You mentioned a few moments ago that it was your fault that you didn't ask for that letter yesterday. You now claim that the Riigikogu is always open to proposals from various interest groups. These things don't sound like anything to me. But what is this openness to proposals in this case? It is clear that the proposal will be rejected without reading it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U72	Thank you. If this letter had come to me, I would have read it for sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U73	Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U74	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! In the meantime, you mentioned that there are many women in your community who are self-employed, and you expect letters from them. I'm sure you've talked to a few of them. You also mentioned that there are self-employed people in beauty service, for example. I believe that quite a few of them have complained to you that advances in social tax are sometimes quite out of hand. Perhaps even an islander has come to tell you that he has given up health insurance. At least I have had a lot of contact in rural areas with people giving up health insurance because they are unable to pay these payments and indeed have not found any other form of entrepreneurship that would be just as easy or convenient for them. Have you ever been in contact with such a subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U75	Thank you, Mailis Reps! I rarely use beauty services, and I can't talk about all the self-employed people who work in beauty services. In general, if there are good entrepreneurs, they also have customers and can handle their payments. This is my current experience, but it cannot be regarded as an in-depth study.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U76	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good waitress! Your answers revealed that if you had received requests or letters from coastal fishermen on this issue, for example, you would have found a solution to their problems. Now, after this performance, if a beach fisher turns to you, will you put forward a new draft and try to find solutions or what solutions would be in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U78	Thank you, Esther Tuiksoo! Surely you cannot change the whole law on the basis of one appeal. You know this very well yourself, having been a more experienced member of the Riigikogu and also a minister. What am I saying? If a group of companies or someone else wants income tax incentives, it is also necessary to justify and explain why it is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U79	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U80	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned that this letter arrived after the Commission had taken its decision. But today is the first reading of the bill. Perhaps, then, it would be better to send this draft to second reading so that the Commission and all its members can consult this letter and the arguments that it brings. In this case, do you support the referral of this draft to second reading in order to give the opportunity to examine the arguments set out in this letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U81	Thank you, Deniss Borodich! Speaking of this letter, the letter did not come late, but it was said to have come in the summer. I repeat, however, that the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act have been amended a lot, many drafts have been tabled to amend them. As regards the self-employed (which has been mentioned earlier by politicians), we will examine this whole thing. We have heard that an amendment was planned last year, and in recent years this law has been amended several times. What does this slight change mean every little time? It speaks of perhaps having to look at this law as a whole, as far as the self-employed are concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U82	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I come back to the issues discussed in the Commission. There was a question from this hall, which was why, however, no further discussion of this bill will take place in this Chamber. You said that this should be asked separately by each member of the Riigikogu, and you did not point out the reasons. Could one of the reasons (you mentioned it briefly) be for the preparation of the granting and transfer of licences for self-employed workers? Would you like to introduce how far this bill or this thing has come and when it will be processed in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U84	Thank you, Inara Luigas! It's been mentioned, but I don't have much and good information right now to explain it to you. I will make this clear to myself, and I will be happy to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U85	Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U86	Thank you. Good waitress! Recently, very many people have expressed the opinion that the Riigikogu could discuss matters more constructively and more substantively. This opinion has been expressed by both the President and the media. Do you not think that, for example, if the Commission were to discuss this matter in the second and third readings as well, there would be a sign that the members of the Riigikogu, and precisely the members of this committee, really want to cooperate in substance and, in essence and in detail, to discuss the proposals for amending a specific bill, the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U87	Thank you, Deniss Borodich! I don't have anything to argue with. Certainly, more in-depth discussions will always be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U88	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Do colleagues want to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 14 at first reading. That is why we are preparing for the voting procedure. I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft Act amending the Social Tax and Income Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party 14. Please take a stand and vote. 50 votes for, 43 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The draft Act amending the Social Tax and Income Tax Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U89	Let's move on to the third item. To this end, the Social Democratic Party Group has initiated the first reading of Bill No 23 of the Amendment to § 33 of the Tax Administration Act. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are dealing with such a small detail of the law: the group's proposal is to amend § 33 of the Tax Administration Act. Paragraph 4 of that paragraph refers to the taxpayer's right to be refunded by the State in certain specific cases. At present, the taxpayer in Estonia can turn to the state on this issue within three years. Our proposal is to change this three years: to extend this period to five years. The idea of this extension came from the trouble we had with pensioners who, because of their ignorance, but above all because of the sloppy work of the state authority, were in such a situation that they had paid more income tax to the state over the years. One application had not been written. No one asked them that either. For five years, we came because the relevant provision of the law came into force on 1 January 2007. Thus, until 1 January 2012, everyone, including those who accidentally paid more income tax in the first years, would have the right to recover the tax paid more from the State. When we considered this proposal, we wondered how the rest of the world would behave. And the way it is done is that in so many countries there are five, in some countries also three years. So there would be nothing special about this fifth year if Estonia were to think of it. The second question arose in the drafting of the draft. It was a thought that it was now three years of 'bilateral size'. The state can charge the taxpayer three years' money if taxes are not paid, and the taxpayer can also recover the money from the state within three years. We have come to the idea that there is perhaps nothing weird about a country acting generously here as a stronger force and allowing itself to be asked back in five years, but asking for it in three years. At the same time, on behalf of the authors of the draft, we believe that this is certainly an issue that needs to be discussed in the Riigikogu, in case the first reading of the draft is terminated. If anyone thinks that we should balance these things, that the number of years should be the same, then we are not going to resist it very much. I guess that's right. But right now, our proposal is to change three years to five. I do not know if you have had the opportunity to discover what has become of this problem in Estonia in a busy time. The latest information I have received through the press is that as of August 4 the executive bodies of the Republic of Estonia had sent 6340 letters to pensioners to correct this error, and 3700 letters have not yet been sent. How much has been reacted to and how many applications have been written, I can't say. However, as of 4 August, EUR 1.53 million have already been paid back to people. So that's a lot of money. In itself, this situation is very easy to come about. The pensioner who actually retires and goes to the pension institution will be given the application. This pensioner, who will continue to work for some time, does not make sense to write this statement. At the same time, he will be granted a pension and it will reach his bank account beautifully. Later, when she actually stays home, she does not realize that she should go to the pension institution for this application. So you could use five years instead of three years. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U91	Thank you. You have questions. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U92	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Wouldn't pensioners who have received such treatment have the opportunity to turn to law enforcement authorities and resolve it under the rule of law? Why don't you leave the law unchanged so they can get justice into the house with the help of a court settlement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U93	The state has not committed a real offence here. The state, turns out, has behaved in accordance with the law, while the pensioner has failed to write one application. But if the ambassador, Mr Méinatammel, has a proposal to put someone away for not asking for a statement, then it certainly needs a separate bill. We will not resolve this issue within the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U94	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As you rightly mentioned in your report, there is a balance between the rights of the state and those of the taxpayer. Three years retroactively, the State can claim tax and the taxpayer can recover three years' money from the State. Now you want to change this deadline so that all the money can be recovered from the state for five years instead of the current three years. When you prepared this bill, did you have an analysis of the cost to the state budget? On the other hand, this also means an increase in the administrative burden on the tax authorities. We had an exit meeting at the Tax and Customs Board during the spring session. Have you been able to analyse how much this increases the workload of the tax authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U96	To tell you how much this might affect the state budget, I should know how much more someone has paid the state tax. I don't have that kind of data. I don't think anyone has that information. However, I believe that this does not increase the burden on the tax administration in particular, from three to five years. It is about the number of years agreed in the rule of law that will be allowed to do so over time. As far as this different time is concerned, I am convinced that the Tax and Customs Board is the stronger side of the tax collection procedure and the weaker side of the taxpayer. Here you can use the help of experts, of course, they may have a different opinion based on their work experience. However, I believe that the possibilities and knowledge of the tax administration are many times greater than that of the taxpayer. It would therefore not be strange if taxpayers' rights last a little longer and the state has a shorter time in the form of a tax administration. But if it's so important, and that's the price of adopting the bill, let it be five years for me. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U97	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U98	Thank you. I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U99	Okay, then you can withdraw your call request. Thank you. No further questions for the performer. Thank you, Eiki Nestor! I would like to present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U100	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The discussion of the first reading of the Bill amending § 33 of the Tax Organisation Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, took place in the Riigikogu Finance Committee on 13 June 2011. The day was sunny, blew a light southeast wind, the temperature was 28 degrees. However, all the members of the Commission were present. Mrs. Iris Põldma, chief specialist of the tax policy department of the Ministry of Finance, also participated. After my colleague Nestor made more or less the same report that he has just said and I am not going to repeat again, Mr Sven Sester asked the question. 'Why five years? ' he asked. Mr Nestor once again explained that the relevant provision of the law came into force in 2007. The next question was asked by my colleague, Mr Kõivas: 'How many people are affected? ' My colleague Nestor replied that he did not have this information and that no one had it. A representative of the Ministry of Finance who announced that the Ministry of Finance would not support this bill, as this step would be disproportionate: in order to save a small number of pensioners, we will change the whole system. Taking this step will not save pensioners. Mr. Nestor's line came in here: 'How can it not be saved?! " This was not answered, and it can be concluded that the exclamation was rhetorical. The representative of the Ministry of Finance continued that much more needs to be done to change the incorrect paragraph. There was a brief debate on the subject of paragraphs: which still need to be changed. The answer sounded like a lot of people. The next question was again put by my colleague, Mr Rõivas, who, remembering what Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi said when he commented on the land tax exemption law in the Commission, asked whether, just in case, the Minister of Finance was still in the same position as the Ministry of Finance. Sounded like a sure answer, yeah. The representative of the Ministry of Finance was certain of this. Mr Taavi Kõivas continued that if solving one problem changes everything, stability should be supported. Mr Nestor commented on this. 'On the surface of some case,' he said, 'a positive amendment of the law is born. ' My colleague Sõerd asked that this three-year rule has been in force since 1993, where it came from for five years. It's a recurring question, isn't it? My colleague Nestor replied that there is nothing strange if the taxpayer's right of recourse to the state lasts longer. That was also in his recent speech. And then the end of the meeting came. The committee chairman asked what the proposals were, and my colleague, Mr Kõivas, suggested not to finish the first reading. There was a vote. Six members of the Commission were in favour of this proposal, five against. This led to the proposal to put the draft on the agenda on 13 September and not to finish the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U101	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U102	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have this question: with how many votes in favour were you instructed to begin your presentation with a description of the weather conditions of that day?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U103	This issue was not discussed in the Commission. On the other hand, there is still freedom of speech in the Estonian country, as far as I know, and no one has prepared the rules that must be spoken about by the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U104	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U105	Thank you, good manager. However, I also ask why you considered it necessary to present to us in such detail what happened in the Commission. As a rule, that is not the norm.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U106	Thank you for your wonderful question. I followed the President's speech yesterday. He also spoke about the law of delinquency and the laws that may be adopted in the interests of a certain category. Imagine that at some point the historical topics of the history of the history of the world are now being written by historians with a large number of books and articles. Soon, we'll all be out of business. I'm sure someone's gonna write the history of the Social Democratic Party. The question arises as to what they were doing, how the debate was conducted. The person turns to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to find out how the debate went on this very important issue for the people. He takes the minutes and discovers that they only contain the name of the question, a list of those who were invited, and then a vote. The President spoke yesterday, as far as I can remember, about transparency, about the need for us to be closer to the people. How can it be if there is no verbatim in the Commission, there are no recordings? Each council in Estonia must hold for two months the recording made at the council meeting. There is no overview of our work in some committees when we look at the protocols that have been drawn up as a result of this work. So, in the interests of future historians, I am prepared to verbatimize the issues for which I am being co-rapporteured and to report them very thoroughly to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U107	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U108	Dear waitress, You started by describing the climatic conditions at the Commission meeting. Could there have been something in these circumstances that affected the health status of some members of the Commission, making them particularly mean to pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U109	No, I rather wanted to point out that the great work and the hard work at that time in the Commission was actually very significant, given the weather. All the more so, the meetings of the Commission should leave some sort of larger mark. In my opinion, regardless of the weather we are sitting on committees, our voters have the right to know what we are talking about there, what argument we are having there. Not, as the President said, to tame the law here, unaware of their content, their influence, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U110	Please, Aivar Sõerd, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have this question: on this fine day, did the Commission also address the problem of amending § 33 of the Tax Administration Act, but § 89, which sets the deadlines for amending the tax return, as well as § 98, which provides for the tax authority to determine the amount of the tax? If the tax return cannot be amended retroactively for more than three years and the tax office cannot fix a new tax amount for more than three years, the pensioners of this bill cannot be recovered at all. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs pay attention to this problem on this beautiful day as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U112	Thank you, dear questioner. The short answer is no. Now a longer answer: this means that there was no substantive debate. The debate was superficial, as the opinion of the Ministry of Finance was known. On the other hand, I see no problem with the need to change other paragraphs. For this purpose, we have the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, there is first reading, second reading, third reading. We have already presented frying advice from the beginning to the end in this Riigikogu. This was the draft law on exemption from land tax, where, I recall, there were only grammatical errors 11 pieces on two pages. However, this also became the case, at least that's what they say. It was only adopted because amendments and a change in the text could be tabled between the two readings. Now, with interest, this is my personal opinion to stop reading first and correct these mistakes. You make suggestions, we vote on them. That, of course, must have sounded at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U113	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U114	In the meantime, you referred here to the President's speech yesterday and said that you spoke for so long about what happened in the Commission because the President warned us that we would not adopt the law. A little of that connects with Aivar Sõerdi's question. Do you think this bill you're filing for is a glitch?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U115	I don't. As a co-rapporteur appointed by the Commission, I will report to you the Commission's opinion on this matter. Not a single person said that at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U116	Thank you. Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U117	Good waitress! What questions did you personally ask at this meeting besides the weather question?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U118	I have reported to you who have taken part in the debate. You asked those who may not have understood some things. For example, while my colleague Nestor twice spoke in his explanatory speech as to why five years instead of three, two people asked afterwards why five and not three. Personally, it was perfectly clear to me. It was quite clear to me that whoever is stronger must meet the weaker on some issues. On this basis, the problem of pensioners must be solved, for example, by means of a law. The way to ask is if I'm clear, I'm not, and I have to say that I didn't ask Mr Nestor for anything at that session. Besides, I was very busy writing down everything that was going on in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U119	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 23 at first reading and we are preparing for the vote. I vote on the commission's proposal to reject the draft amendment to § 33 of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 23. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was rejected by 50 votes to 42 with no abstentions. The draft Act amending § 33 of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U120	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group. I ask Kalle Laaneti, Member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous Minister of Justice always said when he introduced the bill that it was a very good draft. I will begin by introducing the words that this is a very necessary draft. Every day, dozens, if not hundreds, of people in Estonia suffer from close-relationship violence. Every day some kid, woman, man, old guy gets hurt either physically or morally, because of his closest actions. We are here to measure whose will remains, who has more power. We should all have enough empathy to realise that violence in a close relationship is not an issue for political games. It's a question of quality life, at worst life and death. The question is spiritually healthy Estonian people. Now, if you go to the bill, it has two important objectives. The first aim is to make it easier to verify compliance with the conditions of the temporary protection order and the protection order imposed by the judgment by means of electronic surveillance. The second objective of the draft act is to differentiate the penalties for breach of the terms of the temporary protection order and the protection order imposed by the judgment and to sanction the infringement even if it does not result in a threat to the person's life, health or property, as well as the first infringement by the person. In order to refresh your memory, I recall that very many of the members of the previous Riigikogu know this, that in 2009 the same draft was in the Riigikogu proceedings with the same objectives. Unfortunately, it fell out of the procedure as a result of the completion of the work of the previous Member. As life and practice have shown, this bill is an extremely important issue of close relationship violence, which we should be dealing with. These data are presented in the "Criminal Policy Developments until 2018'. The restraining order has been applied almost 80 times since 2006 until the end of 2010. The restraining order was never violated in 2006, 6 times in 2007, 12 times in 2008, 11 times in 2009 and 44 times in 2010. In particular, the aim of the draft is to provide for the possibility of finding solutions so that the protection order is not infringed. As the statistics show, the number of infringements has increased from year to year. What should our legislator's objective be? Our aim should be to adopt such laws so that crimes are not committed and people cannot suffer through them. In 2010, eight persons were tried for violation of the restraining order and seven were convicted: one woman and six men. One financial penalty of 40,000 kroons was imposed, two prison sentences replaced by community service, and four real terms of eight to ten months. These are the numbers, and they're a good indication of where we're really going. Doesn't that make us think we actually have a chance to do something? Beth Conny has said, "There are no impossible dreams, there are only our limited ideas of possibility. " Let's try to get out of these impossible dreams and get on with it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U122	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! After all, these last figures that you have pointed out certainly show that the paragraphs relating to the restraining order have really begun to work. But there may not be real black and white tones in life. Can't what you put forward in your bill be taken as I say now? To the hand-to-hand manipulation? Such a threat may be more threatening than it is now. I know that this has also been referred to by the Government of the Republic in its statement. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U124	Thank you, good Väino, for the question. Whatever regulation we adopt, the risks and risks can be both the same. However, we must assess the real situation from the point of view that if the people who have suffered do not receive help from the state, we must do everything in our power to provide this assistance. One thing is what is listed here today in figures, and the other is a real situation where people do not turn to law enforcement authorities because they do not get real help. As real aid, I am thinking precisely that a restraining order may be imposed either on a temporary basis or by a court. And the implementation of this temporary protection order is not easily controlled by law enforcement authorities. It's written in the law, but it's hard to control in practice. I agree with the fact that law enforcement authorities would have a very serious responsibility if the law had such a possibility if such a restriction were imposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U125	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U126	Thank you. Good waitress! I have this more general question: what concrete steps or proposals have the government or the government coalition made to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U127	Thank you, Rainer! I also spoke to the Minister of Justice this morning on the phone, and the reply of the Minister of Justice was that the Ministry of Justice is currently waiting for a criminal law audit by Professor Sootak to be carried out in order to then take concrete decisions on how and with what drafts to move forward. This is a sign that the government has at least decided to address this issue, but I personally wish it to be dealt with more quickly. One example is that today the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft. The previous composition of the Riigikogu, however, left this bill in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U128	Thank you. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U129	Thank you. Good waitress! Can you briefly explain what the technical implementation of this electronic supervision could be? Has it been done anywhere in the world yet? Does this require both sides to wear some kind of device? Just a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U130	Thank you, Andrei, for the question. Specifically, the application has been dealt with, I know, Home Office. Analogies have been sought from the rest of the world, they exist. And I even know that when the Ministry of the Interior was headed by Marko Pomerants, it was understood that such a system could cost, if my memory wasn't deceived, about 4 million kroons.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U131	Thank you. Please, Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U132	Thank you. Good waitress! Your goal is probably noble and the best of results. I would like to say, however, that this form of punishment, the convergence ban, is a relatively new phenomenon in the Estonian system of leverage and probably takes some time to get used to. You also noted that compliance with this ban is difficult to control. In your draft explanatory memorandum, you state that you want to sanction the infringement even if it does not pose a threat to the life, health or property of the person, as well as to the first time the person committed the infringement. Are you quite convinced that this repressive approach will improve the effect of this leverage and that it can be effectively administered in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U133	Thank you, Rait, for the question. I would say that this is a preventive measure rather than a repressive measure. Those who have actually experienced violence in the relationship know that, in the case of near-relationship violence, the seed that is being germinated has a very long impact. It is precisely with strict punishment that this effect can be avoided. It's an idea that's written in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U134	Thank you. The next question is from Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U135	Good waitress! Don't you think placing a victim under electronic surveillance could violate his constitutional rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U136	Thank you, Peter, for the question. It is clear that, above all, this measure can be applied if the victim so wishes. That's the basis of everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U137	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kalle Laane. Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed draft No 32 on 13 June this year. Tuuli Ploom, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure at the Ministry of Justice, also participated in the discussion. The Commission had the opportunity to examine the opinion of the Government of the Republic, which was forwarded by the Minister of Justice by letter dated 8 June. The government's position was not to support the draft in this form. The Commission also reached the same conclusion after an in-depth discussion. What would in short be the reasons for the negative position.. these were quite similar to us and came out of the government's opinion and the problems that arose in the Commission's sitting? First of all, the Commission acknowledged that the issue of the protection order was indeed important and recognised the willingness of the drafters to clarify the regulation of the protection order. However, it was found that a much more thorough analysis was needed both at the Ministry of the Interior and at the Ministry of Justice. The Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on behalf of the Commission, therefore sent a letter on 5 June to both ministries asking for an analysis by 30 March 2012 and for an assessment of the real need to apply a protection order with electronic surveillance of the appropriate technical solutions, their cost and the legal solutions to be implemented. The proportionality of the sanction as regards the amendment to the Penal Code is questionable in the present draft. This means that for the first time there will be criminal punishment and a second sentence of imprisonment. As the rapporteur has already said, the second reason for the negative position is that the entire audit of the Penal Code is being conducted at the head of Professor Sootak and it certainly makes sense to resolve these issues in a complex way. It was also said in the previous presentation that it is really not clear how to technically solve it Undoubtedly, it also disturbs the daily lives of victims or family members. Indeed, a molester can harass victims not only in his place of residence but also in his workplace or in any public place. It may also be possible to use mobile communications or other modern technical solutions. In conclusion, the Commission decided that it would continue to address this issue. We hope to come back to this in the spring, but we do not support the draft as it stands. We propose not to stop reading the first reading and to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U139	Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U140	Thank you, good name, for the presentation. Would you be willing to shed some light on the coalition politicians' pre-vote discussion? What arguments were discussed there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U141	We discussed whether to leave the bill in the process. That is what we have all admitted today in this Chamber, there has already been a discussion that issues are important and need to be dealt with. That is how we discussed whether it would be possible to leave the draft as it stands. As I said briefly, we found that the problem area needs a complex approach. Perhaps the role of sanctions needs to be further differentiated. There are, in fact, two possibilities here at the moment. This in-depth analysis should precede, then the issue can be put back on the agenda in a complex way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-13_U142	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kalle Jents. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 32 at first reading, we are preparing for the vote. I vote on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group 32. Please take a stand and vote. 48 votes in favour, 42 against, 1 abstention. The proposal was supported. The draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, The session is closed. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 11.45 a.m.
