ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu, honourable members of the Government of the Republic, good guests, Question Time Monitors! Let's start the 26th October briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 43 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 58 are missing. Today's Question Hour is attended by the Minister of Defence Mart Laar, who is also in charge of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Good fellows! As seven questions have been previously registered, I would ask you to take the view that two questions on-the-spot can be submitted during the debate on each issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U2	Let's get started. The first question is asked by Priit Toobal, a member of the Riigikogu, Mart Laar, a member of the government, and the subject is administrative reform. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The IRL programme for 2011-2015 contains a point 61, which states that an administrative reform will be carried out to strengthen municipalities and make municipalities a real driver for local development. That sounds nice. In the spring elections this year, too, the IRL promised to carry out the administrative reform quickly. This week, your coalition partner, through the mouth of Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, announced that there was no need for administrative reform, and even talking about it is like being like the conquerors. How do you plan to move forward on the subject of administrative reform, because it is now obvious that the coalition will not agree on this matter? Will you give up the administrative reform or will you start looking for new ways and political partners to carry out administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U4	Thank you for your question. What is going to be done in this area is clearly stated in the coalition agreement of the government union, and that is exactly what we are sticking to. That's what we discussed. I will not deny that there were different opinions on this issue, as you know, already during the elections. The voters made their assessment. The voters supported this party more, who considered that there was no need for administrative reform. If the questioner now thinks that the Reform Party is a sort of brake, but the Centre Party is taking Estonia forward very strongly, then I recall the Central Party's attitude towards the administrative-territorial reform, which was particularly evident in the reform initiated by the Minister of the Interior in the context of Nature. This reform was not just opposed, but was strongly opposed. So you don't have to decorate yourself with the big reformer feathers right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U5	The first question to be specified, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U6	Thank you. In the same interview Ansip said that municipalities are not meant to provide services. According to him, the services are such that the local authority may refer to them, but do not need to provide them. Paragraph 6 of the Local Government Organisation Act states, however, that the municipality's task is to organise social assistance and services, care for the elderly, youth work, housing and utilities, water supply and sanitation, good order, waste management, etc. Do you share the view of your coalition partner Reform Party that municipalities are not meant to provide services? What are the municipalities meant for in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U7	Thank you. Although I am, by all chance, fulfilling the Prime Minister's duties here before you, I still cannot interpret the Prime Minister's words. I suggest you ask him yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U8	The second point of clarification, Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U9	Thank you. I'll come back to your first answer. Am I right to understand that the IRL has now abandoned administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U10	Thank you. No, I didn't say anything like that. I'm afraid you misunderstood me completely.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U11	Let's go to the issues registered on the spot. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! While you were beginning to remember history, I will also go back to Minister Nature's time and remind you that you yourself did not somehow implement this administrative reform. It stopped that time. That's why I keep asking. Right now, you're really reforming the Department of Defense. Is there no danger that the IRL, which has never done much of the reforms, might fail there too? I also recall the purchase of weapons from Israel during your prime minister's time. Isn't there a great danger that you're gonna screw up this department too? Sorry about the expression!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U13	Good colleagues and good members of the government! I would like to ask that we stay within the scope of the subject on matters that are specific or recorded on the ground. If it is possible to extend these issues to administrative reform, I would ask the Minister for Defence to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U14	You know, I would very much like to answer such an excellent question, but I will not be able to extend this last issue to administrative reform in any way if I meet the President. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U15	The second on-site question, Marika Tuus-Sing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U16	Thank you. Dear Minister of Defence! For IRL, administrative reform has still been a matter of life for several members of the Riigikogu over the years. Now we see that the Reform Party will not allow you to do so and has written off this idea. We get the impression that you're in coalition as if you were a little brother. Is it still worth being in the coalition just to be there to avoid breaking it, as one member of the Riigikogu in your party said a few weeks ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U17	Thank you. I cannot agree in any way with your assessment of our involvement in the coalition, but even if that were true, I think being a little brother in the coalition is better than being a big brother in the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U18	Thank you! I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U19	Let's go to the second question. The second question is asked by Marianne Mikko, a member of the Riigikogu, Mart Laar, a member of the government, and the topic is the salaries of active troops. Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U20	Estonia's defence expenditure in 2012 stands out on the one hand in achieving 2% of GDP, but on the other hand in screaming disproportion. It would be normal for personnel costs, management costs and major equipment procurement to be three equal shares. This is the case in the old democratic NATO Member States, at least. In the case of Estonia, however, the increase in management costs and supply procurement is the lion's share of the increase in defence expenditure, but the person is in the role of beggar. Human resources costs will only increase by 8% in 2012. In other words, concrete and a tool of war are important, but the warrior himself is a third-rate. What does the Secretary of Defense intend to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U21	Thank you for that question. Certainly the Minister of Defence is primarily based on the messages of Marianne Mikko and other social democrats, at least I take them very seriously into account. As has been reported, our soldier remains in the Estonian army, which has been well funded compared to the armies of many other countries. It was a specific quote from the questioner. If they want more funding, it would be a good question to put it this way. I am certainly prepared to explain the Ministry of Defence's budget, to explain what growth means and what the share of one or the other expenditure in the budget is. Then it is, I think, to see more clearly. As far as references to foreign countries are concerned, I suggest that the questioner checks the data.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U22	The first question to be specified, Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U23	I guess I did. Estonia is in the worst position in terms of the personnel costs of the Defence Forces compared to other NATO Member States. They are also lower than Latvia and Lithuania. If someone says that, unlike a teacher, an Estonian Defence Forcesman does not go to work in Finland, he will, in fact. The question of my 'people above all', as advocate of the Social Democratic idea, for Minister Laar, is simple. Why is Estonia a country where the pay of an active soldier is more than lousy in the eyes of other NATO Member States and sub-officers are forced to leave the private sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U24	Thank you. We will jointly work out the serious mistake made by the Estonian press, quoting Marianne Mikko, who has said exactly the opposite in the press: 'Our soldier remains in the Estonian army, which has been well funded compared to many countries. ' Let us agree that everything that Mr Kreitzberg said yesterday has been overturned and we will go back to pay questions. While wages in our Defence Forces are not non-existent or low, it was not possible to raise them this year, just as in many other areas it was not possible to raise wages. I certainly consider that regrettable. I consider it necessary and important to raise the wages of the members of the Defence Forces, as well as of the representatives of other interests. I can only say on my own behalf that the Minister of Defence, like many other ministers or the whole government, will not accept the increase in their salary until we have managed to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U25	The second point, Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U26	What signal does a Member State give to its NATO allies when it becomes apparent that one or another military officer is going on a foreign mission not so much to fight terrorism or promote democracy, but, unfortunately, to get together a little money to buy his family nothing but a regular car?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U27	Thank you. Certainly, here we should look at the motives for foreign missions by the Defence Forces of other countries. But if you look at Estonia's authority in NATO, it is now extremely high, the Estonian Defence Forces have created a good name for Estonia, Estonia's decision to increase defence spending to 2% has created a very good name for Estonia. That is why, in addition to meeting all other needs, we are making these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U28	No further questions. I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U29	We will move to the third question asked by the member of the Riigikogu Ester Tuiksoo, which is answered by the member of the Government of the Republic Helir-Valdor Seeder and the topic is the competitiveness of Estonian agriculture. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! The framework document "Estonia's European Union Policy 2011/2015" states: "It is important for Estonia that best scientific information is used in agriculture and food production and more funds are channelled from EU research framework programmes to make the agricultural sector more research-based and innovative. ' However, Estonia is now and will continue to use the opinions of two committees of scientists and specialists and the decisions of the EFSA laboratory in its decisions on the authorisation of GMO varieties. Why has Estonia not planned further development in this area of science? Chemical research is a very long-term process, and it is known that the attack on GMO varieties will have a strong impact on the competitiveness of food production worldwide.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U31	Thank you for your question. It is as it is in all walks of life: it must save money. In the agricultural sector, too, money must be read very carefully for applied and basic research. Everything we want and want, we can't afford. That is one reason why we also rely on international knowledge. I think it is justified and right that we are based on international knowledge and the views of scientists and experts in shaping our country's positions. But it really isn't that we don't contribute at all to GMO research. We have, like I said, an applied research program. We have even increased its funding over the last few years, not reduced it. Which projects will be approved there depends in particular on researchers, researchers themselves, what their initiatives are, and on the panel of experts who will evaluate the various initiatives and then propose which projects and applications to finance. There's always more applications than money. Squeeze is just the way it is. As far as I am concerned, there were no political decisions before me, nor have there been political decisions in my time, but the ministers have drawn on the proposals made by this panel of experts to finance the projects. I've come from them, too. If there are good projects at the top of the ranking, they will definitely be funded.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U32	The first question to be specified, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The same document states: 'Inside the EU, one important issue to be addressed is the establishment of objective criteria for direct payments (harmonisation) in order to reduce distortions of competition between Member States. ' This is one of the most important issues in the context of the debate on the future of the CAP. My colleagues and I were in the French Senate last week, where the Minister for Agriculture was asked a similar question as he felt about the harmonisation of direct payments within the European Union. All he thought was that everything had to stay the same, and he got a big round of applause. My question to you is a bit philosophical: how can you make it clear to your colleagues in Europe that these foundations need to be harmonised and that our competitiveness in the common market should also be taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U34	Thank you. Equalising direct payments is indeed the most important issue of the common agricultural policy. Here, the Member States of the European Union have different positions. The front line is very clear. Those who receive unreasonably low subsidies seek to increase subsidies, equal treatment and equal conditions, and those who have developed competitive advantages over decades do not want to abandon them. Of course, domestic political pressure in all Member States is just as beneficial to farmers in these countries. But the Estonian state must be guided by the general principle of the European Union, which means equal conditions of competition. We're pushing it. This is our trump card, which has not, in fact, been challenged either by the European Commission or by other Member States. I am pleased to note here that the European Commission has proposed, in the right direction for the next period, a minimum level of 90% for farmers in all Member States, which means that the direction is to equalise payments. It's just a matter of pace. Last week, the Council of Agriculture Ministers was in Luxembourg, where ministers from all Member States expressed their views. I have to say that this is exactly how the front line went: the ministers of all the countries that receive lower-than-average subsidies found equalisation to be very important, and the ministers of all those countries that get more than average missed this issue, but did not object. I am counting on common sense and solidarity, not only in the debate on the European Stability Fund, but also in the common agricultural policy. Of course, I also count on the help of the members of the Riigikogu in fulfilling this sacred task in order to achieve equal conditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U35	The second point, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, How far is the development of a new system for specially labelled fuels? When could you introduce it to us and the agricultural sector, and when have you planned to start with this new system?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U37	Thank you. The agricultural sector should be aware of the situation, because we have talked about this with all the umbrella organisations in the sector. It was only recently that we also talked about this in the Agriculture and Rural Development Council, where all the parties are represented. So the sector is aware of it. The transition to the new system for the use of specially labelled fuel in the agricultural sector will be delayed for an unknown period and the current situation will remain in place. There are several reasons for this. First of all, the European Commission does not agree that in future we will approach farmers in a differentiated way and start to compensate for fuel consumption in line with actual expenditure. They consider that this is contrary to the principle that aid must be decoupled from production. Consequently, only one basis for average compensation can be established, which is certainly not fair and sensible to implement at present. So the Commission's position is one obstacle. Secondly, we must individually apply for a new State aid authorisation, which will take a very long time. Thirdly, not everything is ready for transition within the country either. This concerns not only the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance but, above all, fuel sellers, because in this case all fuel sellers should be on a common network, manage and settle the system electronically. They're not ready for that. So for now, the system remains unchanged. If and when we change this system, I will not be able to answer today, but we will be dealing with this issue, and once it is clear here, we will definitely let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U38	Let's keep moving fast. Two issues registered on-the-spot. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! At times, you have given the impression that you can handle your business, but as far as direct payments are concerned, here, unfortunately, you are deeply indebted to farmers. What's the matter? While you are talking about solidarity and other ministers are also telling us about solidarity, do the Prime Minister and other ministers really support you on this issue in the European Union or do you just go there alone and talk? There's no result. You're going to be a minister for five years, but our farmers are still in a sad state with direct payments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U40	Thank you. I have a suggestion for you: we are going to give you one helping lesson so that your knowledge of agricultural policy and direct payments improves a little. What happens to direct payments until 2014 has been agreed on a Treaty of Accession to the European Union prepared by a minister who was a member of the Centre Party. These conditions apply until 2014, they cannot be changed and we have not asked for them to be changed at the moment either. As for the future, these discussions are only just beginning, five years have not been discussed. It was only last week, 12 October, that the Commission officially introduced for the first time those regulations which form the basis for the size of direct payments for the next period. There has now been an active debate and debate about this. So we definitely can't talk about five years here. But, yes, in the Council of Ministers, I really go alone because every country has, as far as I know, one Minister for Agriculture. At the same time, the Cabinet is completely unanimous on the question that direct payments should definitely increase in Estonia in the next period. We're seeking equalization. I am pleased to note that our concerted effort has already borne its first fruit. In particular, the Commission proposed that Estonia's direct payments increase by around 30% in the next period, i.e. from 117 euros per hectare to 156 euros per hectare. I think this is a very important step forward, it is a step in the right direction, but that is certainly not what we are satisfied with, but we are defending our positions further. I hope that our situation in the future will improve. But I'd be happy to see that you'd be involved in these processes, too, and that you'd be more informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U41	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U42	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Agriculture! Several farmers have approached me. They have complained that area payments are granted to landowners who simply use mowing on farmland. It takes decent farmland out of circulation and there's nothing to grow there. Do you think that the amounts of aid are correct, or have you thought about reviewing these amounts so that this kind of action would go away?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U43	Thank you. This once again depends on the decisions taken in Brussels. For this period, i.e. until the end of 2013, the rules are in place and there will be no significant changes. We are aware of the problems. These categories of producers are much more numerous. There are active food producers, active farmers, and there are just farmers who keep farmland in good condition, who do mow, but as a result agricultural land remains. There is another category of farmers who do not receive any subsidies, whose land was not registered before accession to the European Union and therefore do not benefit from the payment entitlement, but they also carry out active agricultural production. Our aim in the future is to treat farmers in such a way that active farmers who produce food have a higher level of support than those who are only engaged in mowing, i.e. maintaining agricultural land. The same view is currently being taken by the European Commission and, I dare say, by other Member States. The European Commission has come up with a proposal to define who is an active farmer. We think that this definition definitely needs to be clarified and further developed, as such it would not work very well in practice. I hope that, during the discussions, we will find a better solution than what the Commission has now proposed. However, the problem has been recognised and I hope that producers will be treated fairly and differently from 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U44	Thank you! I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U45	Let's go to question four. Marika Tuus-Laul, a member of the Riigikogu, has submitted it and Mart Laar, a member of the government, answers it and the subject is the state budget and priorities. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U46	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister of Defence! My question is based on yesterday's teacher demonstration. We know that there was neither the Minister for Education of the IRL, nor the Prime Minister, nor Mart Laari, who might have had the most questions. There were some members of the IRL who said yes, there really is a need to raise teachers' salaries. But we know who will vote against it in the hall. You have been able to prove that defence spending must be increased quite significantly to one fifth, or 2%, during the current economic crisis. My question is this: do we get it right that you are the one who is taking the money from your party partner, Jaak Aaviksol, to raise the pay of teachers? We get the impression that you are rolling over both the activities of the Minister of Education and the increase in the pay of teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U47	Thank you. You're totally wrong about this. Minister Jaak Aaviksoo has signed the memorandum and proposed it to both teachers and municipalities. This foresees a very significant increase in teachers' pay. That is a very clear goal. This request is understandable, and I support it too. You probably didn't notice our Minister for Agriculture, who was right here in the castle square yesterday. So all I can say is, look a little better.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U48	The first question to be specified, Marika Tuus-Sing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U49	Thank you. Good minister! In particular, the Minister of Education, by the way, has said that you cannot raise your salaries before (you have now said that you need to do so) until the school network is optimised and 220 upper secondary schools should be left in 50 laps. But today Sven Rondi, Chairman of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, who was also on Toompea yesterday, made another statement and said that the IRL has promised the teachers the highest wage increase and that is why you are most responsible. What would you have said to the teachers if you had been on Toompea yesterday, given that the Prime Minister, when he answered the question the day before yesterday, said that the teachers' pay would not rise, and the Minister of Education himself has said that the salary increase will not come until the school network is optimised?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U50	Thank you. We are fully aware of this responsibility and take it very seriously. If we look at the times of the ministers that the higher wage increases of educational staff have taken place in Estonia, they have taken place at a time when the ministers of the IRL have filled this position. Let's just look at the last four years when the raise was actually relatively high. But, of course, this took place in very good cooperation between the members of the government. If we also look at the tough but just obligation imposed on us by Mr Rondid, it is very clear that we have promised it. We take this promise seriously, we will strive for it by 2014. If I told you before to look better, I'm telling you to read better.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U51	The second point, Marika Tuus-Sing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U52	Thank you. I'm going to be more specific. The biggest increase in teachers' pay took place in 2005 and the minister was Mailis Reps, Minister of Education at the Centre Party. This has also been noted by the OECD, which has highlighted the salary increase at the time. But since you are here today in the duties of the Prime Minister, I ask you this. Apart from the increase in defence spending, the second reason why teachers came to Toompea was that, while we are able to pay debts to the living countries and to the chronically insolvent countries, we are able to pay a higher salary to the Greek teacher (the Greek teacher's salary is exactly three times higher than our teacher's), we are able to give and guarantee the sums (the Greek tram driver's salary was also asked for) and we are unable to secure a minimum increase in the pay of teachers at home. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U53	Thank you. I am certainly prepared to discuss the various statistical indicators, which show this situation by means of comparisons. Apparently, unlike you, we have the data. This is certainly not as good as we want, but the situation is not as dramatic as it is sometimes shown. I'll stick to my opinion that this raise must come. That is what the Prime Minister has said, that is what the Minister of Education has said, and that is what I am saying here. I think education is a priority for Estonia. What is there to deny, since the question was about the state budget and the priorities, I took these priorities out. In our state budget, looking at the division of activities, education is still very important and its importance is increasing compared to 2011. This is clearly a priority area for this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U54	Now the questions registered on the spot. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister! Yesterday, one of the bombs exploded in the Estonian media. This was also news for coalition politicians, not to mention politicians in the opposition. In particular, already in August, the European Commission suspended the payment of 92 million euros of structural support to Estonia. How do you think this could affect the budget for this year and how it will affect the budget for this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U56	Thank you. First of all, I would like to remind you that this decision of the European Union did not come from any European officials unexpectedly, but it was based on our own analyses and reports. Since we ourselves have made these, we know exactly where we can resolve the mistakes we still have. We can do this, believe me, quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U57	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I come back to the state budget and priorities. In my opinion, government programmes and programmes are also among the priorities. Last autumn, the government approved the development plan for Ida-Virumaa, but at that time it did not find any financial support in the state budget. Can you say, has this programme been supported in the budget for the coming year, and where it can be read, because it has not been explicitly mentioned in the papers that have been submitted to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U59	Thank you. I'm gonna get a little stuck here. I can tell you where it definitely isn't, namely, it's not in the Department of Defense budget. This is a good plan. As far as I know, at least on the basis of certain programmes, this funding started last year. In the government, various ministers have discussed the points of this scheme. I, too, have participated in some of this debate. I hope that the points of this plan have been taken into account in the various ministries. But the first reading of the state budget will begin here soon. I'd definitely advise you to ask Secretary Ligi. I believe he will give you an exact answer. But yes, it doesn't exist in the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U60	Thank you! I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U61	Let's go to question five. It is presented by Yana Toom, member of the Riigikogu, Mart Laar, member of the Government of the Republic, and the topic is citizenship policy. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question is inspired by the debate on the citizenship policy of the Estonian state that took place in this hall yesterday. In fact, we discussed a bill that automatically gives citizenship to a few dozen children under the age of six months whose parents have lived in Estonia for many years, but who do not have the nationality of any state. This bill was voted down because it allegedly would change the basis of our citizenship policy. At the same time, we know that this is proven by numerous studies, I am not going to list them here in order to save time, that our country's citizenship policy is one of the toughest, not only in North America, but also in other European countries. If we look at this issue in an economic dimension, can you justify such a serious citizenship policy? What benefits will this bring to the Estonian economy? Or do you think citizenship policy is not the right place to think about money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U63	Thank you. I believe that this decision, which has been debated, does not bring any benefits or problems in one direction or another. As you rightly said, this actually concerns a very small group of people. It simply concerns the principle of the law and justice in force, which I must agree with. I, like the majority in the Riigikogu, think that this proposal goes against it. But if you look at Estonian citizenship policy and Estonia's development as a whole, if you look at any direction, any statistics or data, or whatever, compared to the countries with which we started our way together, Estonia has done very well. If taken according to this, Estonian citizenship policy has contributed significantly to Estonia's development.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U64	Question number one, Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U65	It does not make any sense, Minister, that if it concerns such a small number of children, why was that answer so fundamental? But I am still asking this question: do you think that our citizenship policy is contributing to the fact that our taxpayer is still living in Estonia and not going to travel around the world? As came out of this debate yesterday, the number of non-citizens is decreasing not only because of the people who obtained Estonian citizenship, but also because of those who choose Russian citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U66	Thank you. As the number of Estonian citizens is also decreasing, I am unable to see the connection with our citizenship policy here. Rather, possible links should be sought somewhere else, which is a completely different question. As I said, the number of people affected is really small, but justice and legal certainty are very important and important concepts. I don't think there's anything that needs to be changed or otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U67	The second point, Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U68	As a non-Estonian, I know that citizenship is something that gives you a sense of home and gives you roots. There's no point arguing about that. It's a philosophical question. But yesterday there was a slightly naive question in this hall, which I have heard from the Estonians I know many times. I am asked what I think as a Russian, on whose side local Russian citizens will be fighting if a conflict with Russia occurs. On this point, Mr Must said very well that in this case, the camps of the interned should be established in Estonia. As Secretary of Defense, have you thought about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U69	Thank you. If you mean Mr. Black by Estonian citizens, from whom you are asking for assessments of Estonian citizenship policy, then you will receive such answers. If you ask someone else, I think you'll get a little different answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U70	Now two issues registered on the spot. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As you know, already four times in six years, the opposition presented this draft and every time it has been voted down. All these drafts were drawn up on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the relevant European conventions. In addition, the representatives of the European Union have advised Estonia to pay attention to this issue. Estonia's strongest argument was that it does not correspond to our traditional policy. Please, what is more important is either our traditional policy or those basic things that we have ratified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U72	Thank you. You know, if one draft has been submitted four times and four times rejected on the same grounds, I will say briefly that it is as if we could end it. Actually, the question is simple. The question is whether or not the parents of underage children have any rights. You want to ignore them. The Estonian Government has so far found that parents' rights must not be ignored. This is a very simple issue which has no direct relation to any major principles, citizenship policy or anything else. A very simple question: do parents have rights or not? The world usually finds it is. We will, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U73	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U74	Thank you. Dear Mart Laar! I need to settle your remark on Professor Aadu Black for a start. Knowing him all my life, I can say that he has a very sharp and ironic sense of humor, which, of course, a person must have a certain intellectual level in order to understand. But now I will continue with the issue of citizenship policy. The Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee visited Pihkva a month ago. We learned from Pihkva Consulate that Estonian citizenship and Estonian passport are very actively applied for there. Last year, 2,000 new citizens, mostly young people, came about my age. We know that they will live in the Russian Federation and their knowledge of the Estonian language will probably be weaker than those children who are born in Estonia and go to school in Estonia, but whose parents are, unfortunately, without any nationality. Please explain once again the right of parents living in Estonia who do not have citizenship to choose citizenship for their children. These kids don't get citizenship when they're born.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U75	Thank you. According to the law, for a child under 15 years of age, it has to do with the will of the parents. This proposal intended not to take this will into account. I don't think that's right or good. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U76	Thank you! I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U77	Let's move on to question six. It has been submitted by Riigikogu member Neeme Suur, meets Mart Laar, member of the Government of the Republic, and the subject is the necessity of administrative reform. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Defence in his duties as Prime Minister. The Action Plan of the Government of the Republic states, as one of its objectives, that it will help develop and finance a think tank for the development of local governments, where scientists, officials, politicians, self-governance and the free sector will meet. By the fourth quarter of 2011, this think tank should be launched. What is the starting point of the Government of the Republic for the establishment of a think tank in a situation where administrative reform has essentially been buried by the government, even though these same scientists, officials and the free sector have openly and clearly stated that administrative reform is necessary and absolutely inevitable?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U79	I'm sure we'll find that a think tank necessary. As far as this public opinion is concerned, as you said, is concerned, unfortunately, I do not dare to be 100% certain of it. The hope is that it is possible to start an administrative reform without government coercion when meeting and discussing the matter with representatives of local governments, which means that local governments take this matter seriously. There's an experiment going on right now. IRL has initiated the merger of municipalities in Hiiumaa. Let's see how this goes. It would be very positive if it went well. I hope that such chambers will contribute to this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U80	The first question to be specified, Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U81	Thank you. Does the planned state budget for 2012 allow municipalities an independent income base, an increase in regional balance and local democracy, as envisaged by the Government of the Republic's action plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U82	Thank you for that question. It is precisely the case that, in the view of the government, the budget that is being presented allows it to do so. I am, unfortunately, convinced that the opposition believes that this budget does not allow this. Well, then, we in Parliament will discuss what this picture looks like. I have to admit, I fully share the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U83	The second point, Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U84	Thank you. The Prime Minister has expressed his point of view, I assume that this is the government's position, that before talking about the functions or capacities of local authorities to perform them, it should be clarified what functions the local authorities cannot perform. Does the government consider it necessary to start new broad-based studies to analyse the functions of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U85	Thank you. If I express my personal opinion, I must admit that I think we will soon have a closet full of these studies. It's time to move on from research, and I don't think there's that much need to produce them forever. At the same time, it is certainly good and necessary to get an overview. This has been done by Kiisler, Minister of the Interior, in charge of the Regional Minister. I believe it is possible to ask him about it, both in this Chamber and in person. I'm sure the Minister will give everyone interested a pretty good overview of the subject. All I'm saying is this picture isn't always the happiest. In my opinion, this suggests that, in one way or another, we would be wise to move forward with this issue. That's what we do in the government when we discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U86	Now two issues registered on the spot. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Supreme Court has stated in its ruling that the tasks of local government and state must be determined and who will pay for what and how much. This decision of the Supreme Court has not been taken into account again in the 2012 draft state budget. This was also stated by the President of the Republic at a meeting with the Committee on Monetary Affairs and Constitutional Affairs. In addition, the President suggested that if this Supreme Court ruling was not taken into account, he might not declare this budget law as contrary to the Constitution. What are you going to do to comply with the demands of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U88	Thank you. I think you have an opportunity to start discussing this right now in this Chamber. The government, I can assure you, has taken this Supreme Court decision into account. Of course, as I said before, I know that the opposition thinks the opposite is true. As they say, disputes reveal the truth, and on the basis of that truth, we go on. But as a member of the government, I can tell you it's been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U89	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U90	Thank you. Dear Historian Minister of Defence in the duties of Prime Minister! Here's the question. Jüri Uluots, a prominent lawyer and state figure, claimed in his work 'The importance of own government in Estonia from a historical point of view' in 1933 that the smallest unit in the form of a rural municipality dates back to the herbs. At the time, villages and later villages were social units, carrying out aggressive, administrative, tax, and religious tasks. For self-defense purposes, they started in the parishes and then in the counties. Does modern history consider Jüri Uluotsa's theories to be the distant ancestors of present-day municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U91	Thank you. However, I am saddened to confirm that if we look at the current administrative division, it comes from another historical formation. Let it be true, I must admit, from one formation or another, it is not, I think, the main issue on this issue to be discussed. The problem is perhaps that Estonia as a whole has changed in nature. If we look at the number of people living in the country in 1923 or earlier, it is a very different figure than it is now. Whether we like it or not, this is the bill we need to look at. When we look at ancient parishes, we look at the churches that operate there, we have to admit that there are still quite a lot of parishes up to this perhaps more sacred community, which I consider very important and important myself. In doing everything, you have to stick to tradition, but on the other hand, you definitely have to look to the future in the light of the situation where we are now. This problem is not unique. Yesterday I met my Finnish colleague, the Minister of Defence there, and he gave me a very interesting overview of the disputes that are being held there and which are exactly the same as here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U92	Thank you! I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U93	We have come to question seven. Inara Luigas, a member of the Riigikogu, answers this question, Mart Laar, a member of the government, and the topic is the development of Nurs' exercise square. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U94	Thank you, Mr President. First, I'm gonna make a little correction. Namely, my question was about developing Nursipalu's training field, but I think the Secretary of Defense understood that. Here's my first question. In October of this year, I was in Sõmerpalu municipality, where the citizens had asked me. There was an exhibition on the development of Nursipalu's exercise field, which discussed the results of noise studies and the buildings that are being built to prevent noise. Citizens were far from satisfied with the answers, and many questions remained unanswered. Have military noise studies been carried out in Estonia at all, and with what legislation have these studies been confirmed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U95	Thank you. I've been to the same place myself and I've been talking to people. I would first of all like to say about Inara Luigas that it is very positive that the members of the Riigikogu are interested in this subject and are dealing with it. The more we talk about it, the closer we actually get to the agreements, even if we can be far away from them at first. But now for noise research. On the one hand, military noise as a whole and noise standards, and on the other hand, their health effects. As far as the latter is concerned, specific clinical trials in this area cannot be carried out in Estonia. We intend, if necessary, to use the assistance of Finland, where these studies have been carried out quite closely and over a long period of time, simply because they have had a defence force without the interruption we have. The intervening disruption that occurred as a result of the Soviet occupation, when Estonia did not have its own defence forces, has, of course, had a negative effect, which is why the noise levels we use are the same as in Finland. The second option, i.e. the use of industrial noise standards by the Republic of Estonia, is not really suitable for the Defence Forces. Everything we have done on Nursipalu and what we are doing is aimed at keeping noise as low as possible in any case. The latest studies show a quite positive direction, which is partly due to the fact that we have changed our plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U96	Thank you! The first question to be specified, Inara Luigas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U97	You are using the noise standards in force in Finland and it is not even possible to measure this noise in Estonia. My second question is: why does Estonia use the noise standards that apply in Finland? Are there other noise standards in the European Union which are lower and which would be much more acceptable to the local population?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U98	Thank you. We use Finnish standards simply because their circumstances are the most similar to our circumstances. All over the world, these standards are also based on the geographical, natural environment. If we look at our territory, it is also relatively similar to Finnish territory on the outside, but it is relatively different from Italy, for example. I believe that all standards in Finland are very seriously thought out. Finland is undoubtedly one of the best countries in the world to protect its citizens most in all these respects. The transposition of these standards, I think, will also provide our citizens with a level of protection from all kinds of problems. As Minister of Defence, I can confirm that the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence take these standards and these claims seriously. By now, the plans of Nursipalu's exercise field and the location of the polygons have been changed quite significantly to meet local people. These are the same standards, as they are important. They're not something we should look at. We're not looking either.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U99	The question registered on the spot, Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Have you discussed any other places for this exercise field that wouldn't bother the local people so much?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U101	Thank you. We have certainly considered this whole process started with a very thorough consideration. But the fact is that both the Kuperjanov battalion and the other units involved need, I stress, a training field for the infantry battalion's light weapons. We must ensure that our defence forces have a proper opportunity to train and receive good training, as this will ensure their safety. Not only am I talking about the armed forces in a broader sense, but it also guarantees the safety of the conscripts. According to all the confirmations and analyses, the Nursipalu really is the right place. We understand in the same Department of Defense that this will undoubtedly cause problems to local people. That is why we are negotiating and seeking solutions to reduce the problems, to make them as small as possible. On the other hand, we provide direct assistance and support in certain areas to address certain local problems that may be related to this. I believe that you have read in the press what we are going to do and what agreements we have reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U102	The second point of clarification, Inara Luigas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U103	Dear Minister, I'm gonna ask you about that. Many tourist operators also attended that meeting. Their concern was that in certain cases the noise level is higher than the norm prescribes. They were also concerned that tourism was built there because a person would come to rest, wishing to be away from both technical noise and military noise, etc. A representative of the Ministry of Defence said that tourism farms could just start promoting military tourism. The Forest Brother's farm was brought as an example. Is that a serious recommendation that the DOD representatives are spreading, or was it some kind of local joke?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U104	Thank you. Unfortunately, I wasn't at that meeting, but I was at another meeting where the exact same question arose. This problem is undoubtedly wider than military tourism. Although I wouldn't turn it off, but I wouldn't talk about it under the name of military tourism. This same forest-brother bunker we are helping the defence forces to build up completely within the framework of an agreement, and we are also supporting the expansion of this museum, which currently has one room. This is a very important place in the history of Estonian Forest Brotherhood. I think, also by looking at the rather good performance of another similar tourist business, that people still have an interest in it. But that doesn't mean it's the only thing. I think that it is at least as important that noise formation is clearly concentrated in certain periods, especially in those periods, when tourism operators estimate that there are not many tourists in the region, because the weather is simply bad. But as local people have also been told, in the summer, when there are many tourists, there are no plans for shooting in this area. We're trying to track it. In addition, at the meeting I was present, I was approached with concern that in some places this noise still sounds, despite all the obstacles. There must be a specific look at what can be done about this farm, which is not a tourist company, which barriers to build, where to plant, what to build and where to put the double windows that we are doing in Sõmerpala. So we're gonna have to go through everything. The Ministry of Defence is confident that a good agreement is only what is achieved in cooperation. We are interested in cooperation and devote a lot of time to it. I believe that these solutions will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U105	I'm going to finish the question. Today's Question Time is over. I would like to thank the members of the government for their answer and the good colleagues for their questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U106	Good fellows, honourable Riigikogu, good guests! Good afternoon. We will begin the 6th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U107	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is known that this is the regulation of surveillance activities in the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws, precisely the part that should apply from 1 January 2012. Our proposal is to postpone the entry into force of these amendments by one year, until 1 January 2013. If someone points out that we have certain procedures, and the Chancellor of Justice has drawn our attention to the breach of the Constitution, then I can say that we are taking all this into account. I have also consulted with the Chancellor of Justice. He thinks such a change makes sense. By processing these surveillance procedures, we will find the right dates for entry into force to even the most acute provisions to solve problems. Thank you to everyone who noticed!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U108	Peter Võsa, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U109	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two inquiries to make on behalf of the four members of the Central Party. The first is Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment. In the 2010 review of the utilisation and preservation of state assets, the National Audit Office draws attention to the land issue of rural municipalities and cities, which is entangled behind the completion of the land reform. In the process of completing the land reform, the focus will be on clarifying the relationship between land ownership and municipalisation. To this end, the Government of the Republic already approved in 2008 the principles for establishing a country's reserve for land, which sets out the list of countries from which the country's reserve for land is formed. The inspection has found that the principles of establishing the land reserve of the State are still not transparent to the municipalities. In fact, local governments have the impression that the country's land reserve will be formed at random. Its aim is to complete the sales plan and increase public revenue. The municipalities and cities would not be opposed to the ownership of the land by the State if the State were to explain why the land was to be held by the State. The Land Board confirms that it is based on the principles of establishing the land reserve of the State, which is not a public document, when applying for ownership of the land. In this regard, we have six questions. The second inquiry is the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkogu. It's about the next one. Pursuant to § 44 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, ensuring mental and physical security and, pursuant to § 45, solving an emergency in school is the responsibility of the school director. Given the underfunding of the education system, failure to comply with these obligations could have negative consequences for both students and teachers. In this regard, we have a total of nine questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U110	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Public Procurement Act, initiated on 24 October, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. The draft law amending the State Budget Act 2011, initiated on 24 October 2011, of which the commission is the Finance Commission, is the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Public Transport Act and the State Fees Act, initiated on 24 October, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, the Rescue Act, the Rescue Services Act and other laws, initiated on 24 October, resulting from the reorganisation of institutions whose commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs; the Government of the Republic. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO reaction forces', initiated on 24 October, is a commission of state defence; in the Government of the Republic. A draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Kosovo," initiated on 24 October 2008, which is the leading committee of the National Defence Commission; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft of the Riigikogu's decision of 24 October to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan, whose commission is the National Defence Committee; in the Government of the Republic. A draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian state in Iraq', initiated on 24 October, is a commission of state defence; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft of the Riigikogu's decision of 24 October to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria, whose commission is the National Defence Committee; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft of the Riigikogu decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta and NATO Marine Operation Active Endeavour' initiated on 24 October, whose commission is the National Defence Committee. Good luck to the lead committees! The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Good fellows! It is my great honor to ask you to do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. There is also a clarification on today's agenda. In fact, at the debate on today's seventh item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending private school law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 92, and at the debate on the eighth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending aviation law, maritime safety law and railway law initiated by the Government of the Republic, the initiator will make a presentation by the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U111	Let us begin by addressing the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy and the Law on Administrative Cooperation initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There is no wish to negotiate. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put the bill 72 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 72 of the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy and Amendment to the Law on Administrative Cooperation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U112	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on plant reproductive and plant variety rights, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Mr. Heimar Lenk! Are you a representative of the Centre Party Group? Good fellows! It seems to me that information technology is acting on its own. I'm declaring a five-minute break. The sitting will be resumed at 2.16 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U113	Good fellows! The chairman's recess is over. It's 2:16. I'm really sorry that this has happened to our computer system! Let's hope it doesn't happen again. Now it is a great honour for me to address all the political groups. If your representatives wish to negotiate, now is the time. There's no call. We can go to the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 93 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed, with one abstention. Draft 93 Act on Plant Reproduction and Amendment of Plant Variety Law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U114	We go to the third item on the agenda, namely the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Accession to the Convention on the definition of parental obligations initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the application of measures for the protection of children, applicable law, recognition of remedies, implementation and cooperation. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu Chair Member of the Legal Affairs Committee Siim Kabritsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U115	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 17 October, the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Act on the Establishment of Parental Obligations and the Implementation of Measures for the Protection of Children, the Law applicable, the Recognition, Implementation and Cooperation Act 79. No proposal to amend the draft was submitted within the time limit set for tabling amendments. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of 26 October for the second reading of the Riigikogu 79 and that the draft be adopted as a law in accordance with § 115 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. The decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U116	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests either. No amendments to the draft were received. The Governing Commission also wants a final vote at the end of the second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 79 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 79 of the Act amending the Act on the Recognition, Implementation and Cooperation of the Law on the Establishment of Parental Obligations and on the Application of Measures for the Protection of Children, the Law on Recognition, Implementation and Cooperation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. We have finished dealing with the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U117	The next item is the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2012 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I beg the Secretary of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The preparation of the 2012 draft state budget has come to a time when the importance of responsible fiscal policy is particularly stressed. The global economy is getting cold and its recovery has become uncertain for one dominant reason, because of the mistrust of Europe in coping with national deficits and debts. The next few months will show how persistently the nervousness of the financial markets over the last few months is shaking the expectations of consumers and investors for the future and the real economy. Estonia is vulnerable to this environment despite the fact that we are not burdened with debts. However, unlike in 2008, these negative effects are not exacerbated by domestic macroeconomic imbalances such as rapid credit growth, rapid inflation and large current account deficits. However, Estonia's expectations for economic growth and budgetary forecast have been improved downwards due to environmental degradation. According to our current knowledge, Estonia's economic growth will slow to 3% next year, but it is still the fastest in the euro area. Our economic growth is directly affected by the shrinking growth rate of export demand. This reduces the confidence of investors, producers and consumers alike and hampers the growth of domestic demand. The economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, which is the basis for the state budget, differs from other forecasts in a more conservative way. The IMF, the European Commission and commercial banks predict greater economic growth for Estonia. All international experts have brought Estonia to a much better position than the rest of the euro area. This is confirmed above all by the state of public finances, but the adjustment of companies has also been successful. It is very important for us to remember very seriously why Estonia's monetary policy is being set as an example on both sides of the Atlantic. The revenue for the 2012 budget is planned at EUR 6.1 billion (an increase of 8.9%) and expenditure at EUR 6.57 billion (an increase of 11%). The budget for the following year will stick to the current principles of public finances. The most important of these is a balanced budget or rather a surplus budget. The general government budget is expected to be in deficit at 2.1% of GDP in nominal terms next year for one-off reasons, of which investments account for 1.5% of the sales revenue of CO2 quotas. The restoration of the second pillar of pension payments in full will cost nearly 1% of GDP. If one-off factors are deducted, it can be said that the budget will be structurally in surplus next year. The aim of the government is to achieve a nominal balance in 2013, which will enable the recovery of reserves mobilised during the crisis and create a buffer for potential economic setbacks in the future. Similarly, municipalities in the general government balance are expected to end next year with a deficit of 0.2% of GDP. Due to the increased risks in the global economy, we are proposing to postpone by one year the increase in the net debt burden on local authorities from 60% to 100%. This will not worsen the situation of local governments so far, but will reduce the government deficit. In order to improve the capacity of municipalities to invest, the government allocates a total of EUR 280 million to municipal sites, of which 100 million are regional investments, 60 million water projects, and 120 million come from the sale of CO2 quotas. Support for local road storage will increase by 40%, to nearly 18 million euros. The Health Insurance Fund will have a deficit of EUR 6 million next year and the unemployment fund will have a surplus of EUR 112 million. Social tax revenue does not cover pension costs of EUR 354 million. The total deficit of the social security system in 2012 amounts to 1.5% of GDP (250 million euros). The government does not plan to change the tax environment significantly, the tax burden will remain moderate, at the same level as this year, 32.4% of GDP. The budget deficit is planned to be covered by reserves next year. This will prevent us from turning to the credit market in these unfavourable times, which would be unreasonable in terms of borrowing rates and detrimental to the state. It is all the more important that the liquidity of the Treasury and other government entities is managed on a consolidated basis, without increasing credit costs and indebtedness. The current situation in the countries of the European Union clearly demonstrates the importance of keeping public debt under control. Estonia's projected debt burden will fall to 5.8% of GDP, which is the lowest figure in the European Union, but will still take 0.2% of GDP from us as interest per year. At the same time, the average interest cost of the euro area is 3% of GDP, and the average debt burden of over 80% means spending on income for the coming year. Estonia is also once again in a position where real growth in the average wage can be expected. However, this is only in those sectors where booming errors and the setbacks of the crisis period have been overcome. The majority of the public sector is not one of them. Efficiency and structural reforms must be the keywords here, without which there will be no wage increases. Operating costs will increase next year only due to legislation and earlier commitments by EUR 92,3 million, with an increase in defence costs of EUR 52.4 million and an increase in maintenance costs of EUR 10.3 million. In order to improve Estonia's growth prospects, the state must continue to promote employment and labour productivity. In view of these objectives, the budget for next year has increased investment, limited operating costs for the country and retained R &amp; D at 1% of GDP (EUR 163 million). It also supports the business environment, the flexible functioning of the labour market and the long-term growth prospects of the economy. The share of government investment in Estonia has been one of the largest in Europe. Unlike most euro area countries, we have the opportunity to significantly increase investment. In 2012, investment will grow by 28% to EUR 1.25 billion, representing more than 7% of GDP and almost three times the European average. Investments will smooth the risks from the external economy by boosting domestic demand and promoting job creation. One fifth of investments are investment from quota trade, which also brings lasting savings in energy costs. The state's expenditure will increase by 653 million euros compared to 2011, i.e. 11%. Next year's budget will make a significant contribution to security, both in the fields of defence, internal security and social protection. Defence costs will increase to the permissible target of 2% of GDP. The cost of social protection will increase by 190 million euros, or 10%. In addition to the costs of the second pension pillar, which will increase by EUR 89,6 million, public pensions will increase by 4.4% next year. Expenditure on social benefits will increase by 9.2 million euros and more money will be devoted to renovating nursing homes and developing the hospital network. In internal security, the state will improve life-saving capabilities by increasing the number of rescue teams from 34 to 63, which will cost EUR 2.1 million. The 2012 budget has been prepared responsibly and reflects our real level of prosperity. This does not reflect wishes that our public finances would not bear. We have taken into account uncertain times, but there are risks from the economic environment. It is therefore particularly important that the decisions taken in this Chamber do not have a negative impact on the budgetary position and do not increase expenditure in a disguised or far-reaching manner. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U119	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. You have many questions. Starts with colleague Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U120	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It has to be acknowledged that making the state budget is a relatively large job and, frankly, the initial maker of the budget would not want to be very much. My question relates to the fact that we once again see that our debt burden is falling to 5.8%. At the end of 2011, it was 6.6%. At the same time, we are showing a deficit of 2.1%. In this situation, was it even under discussion whether it would be wise to continue along the path of debt reduction or whether it would be more appropriate to keep it at some level, for example, and therefore even to reduce the budget deficit close to zero? Then we'd look even better in Europe if we didn't have a deficit at all, and maybe we could even lose a few points of pain in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U121	Thank you. I was just thinking that I hope you never have to be a budget maker, but I may have hesitated a little bit about that. It would have been nice in itself to strike a nominal balance, but for that, I think, they weren't politically prepared. The keyword for this budget is not cuts, but efficiency gains. We will be able to reduce the debt burden by purely financial measures, consolidating the cash registers' reserves. This is one important aspect, but, of course, either accrual-based and cash-based accounting or cash-flow changes are not individually transferable. This is one way of achieving efficiency. I still remind you, structurally, we're in surplus. We take away one-off factors, level off the effects of the economic cycle and get a few percent-tenths of the structural surplus. So the inner balance is still there. This does not mean, of course, that nominal balance is not important, because money is reduced. On a cashier's basis, we're still in worse shape.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U122	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U123	Mr Secretary of Finance. In autumn 2010, the Government approved the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan 2010/2014. Speaking in the Riigikogu with a government programme, Prime Minister Ansip confirmed in this Chamber, answering my question, that the new government will also follow this agenda. Can you tell us what expenditure is foreseen in the 2012 state budget to implement this action plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U124	Thank you. I'm sure I can, but I'm not ready to answer any question without a specific analysis. This question will certainly be answered, but do not expect me to find specific lines on this programme from this budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U125	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U126	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the role of local governments in the state budget. The Supreme Court has said in its judgment that the tasks of local governments and the tasks of the state must be determined and clear limits drawn for who pays and how much. This decision of the Supreme Court has not been taken into account again in the 2012 draft state budget. This was also stated by the President of the Republic at a meeting with the Committee on Monetary Affairs and Constitutional Affairs. At the same meeting, he suggested that if this Supreme Court ruling was not taken into account, he might not declare the budget law. What do you want to do to meet the demands of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Court in the budget already being processed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U127	Thank you. That judgment has been executed according to its abilities. It is not realistic to assume that we would draw a line and say that it is only the municipality, but only the central government, that there would be no overlapping tasks and that we would be able to accurately estimate the costs of local governments. It is absolutely unimaginable for us to say how much a local government has to spend on a service. National tasks have been kept separate, for example, by registering births and deaths or coordinating the work of libraries with a few keywords that have been kept separate. But this request that we keep these functions completely separate is, of course, exceptionally artificial. We have made several attempts in this area with the municipalities. What do you think the result is? They don't have the slightest interest! The Supreme Court went to defend the local governments and actually took the position of defence. I would like to see how Tallinn says that it deals with national functions by duplicating them. But very many of the functions on which the municipality spends money are not really the functions of the municipality. This is undoubtedly done at the expense of its main functions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U128	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U129	Thank you. Minister of Finance! During the summer, when the budget for the coming year was drawn up at the Ministry of Finance, various forecasts were made as to what economic situation could be expected next year. As far as I know, the Ministry of Finance, being self-sustaining, chose a 3% growth scenario. When this budget was transferred to the Riigikogu, Eesti Pank said that it should be even more cautious and base its risk scenario on 1% economic growth. It's been over a month now. Have you been informed and assured that the forecast selected by the Ministry of Finance will be more appropriate in the coming year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U130	Thank you. If you ask me personally, I'd say it would be more appropriate for me to have a more cautious view. Not because I don't believe in prognosis, but because I give more importance to instability and ignorance than to the majority of forecasters and also to the government. I'm just being more careful about things like this. But there's more fortress. I bring two facts. The IMF also predicted us to grow by 3%, which is the lowest growth in next year, but for this it predicted more than we did in that year, means it predicted from a higher base. His prognosis this year, if I'm not mistaken, was 7.6%, we had 7%. This is the most pessimistic forecast since ours. In the meantime, Swedbank, also forecasting several percentage points more growth this year, has forecasted an increase of 3,2% next year. Commercial banks have estimated more than 4% and more than 5%. I don't have an exact list. This, of course, always depends on the timing of the forecast. Eesti Pank simply expressed its caution. You are aware that I, too, offered the government a buffer to make a more cautious budget. But it was undoubtedly politically rather unrealistic: the Riigikogu did not support or support me in this matter, I think, nor did the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U131	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U132	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I am also thinking of the previous period of the current government, because the same period of power has been quite long and a number of laws have been passed, which have also been discussed thoroughly. But from your report, it sounded like we'd like to postpone one more law. This law is a law on the financial management of a local government unit, which was discussed very thoroughly here. What is the assurance that, for example, at the end of next year, the 2013 budget will not be the case again, so that we will postpone the entry into force of this law and perhaps some other laws? When adopting laws, can we not discuss the matter further so as not to constantly postpone their entry into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U133	Thank you. I think that this law, as you yourself have confirmed, was discussed very thoroughly. One of its elements, i.e. a more flexible loan cap, was also under discussion. The entry into force of the law itself will not be delayed. Most of its points come into force. The municipality's lending capacity actually increases when the group has this credit capacity. Its companies or foundations often increase its credit capacity, which is consolidated. To change this 60% limit, we are the only ones to postpone. It can no longer reach 100%, depending on the basic income and the basic costs, but other flexibilitys, clarifications in the law will still come into force. What made this change? Definitely a deterioration of the projections. This risk simply tended to increase so much that we had to respond to it with some legislative changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U134	Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U135	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! I would like to ask how you appreciate the cooperation council of the Municipalities and the state negotiations. Its final protocol is actually part of the budget. Do you think that a satisfactory result has been achieved, or are not many wishes of local governments reflected in this budget? What kind of judgment do you make?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U136	Thank you. You could also ask whether many of the wishes of the central government are reflected in this budget. The answer is no. Wish is bigger than the possibilities. In characterising this cooperation, I think it has been relatively cultural. There has been no public racketeering, and in general, local governments are more consistent in their policies and respect the financial boundaries that exist. There are, of course, some points where we have disagreed. You seem to have been more concerned with these things. I remember two questions. I've already mentioned one thing. The second is that we offered an agreement that municipalities in corpore would limit their deficits to a certain amount and receive a small amount of financial support from the state, but the municipalities did not agree. So the agreements that have not taken place are diverse. It's not that one is oppressing the other, but fortunately, it hasn't gone, let's say, rude. I think there's more resemblance to thinking than there was a few years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U137	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In the 2012 budget, Estonia's new house investment line of the opera and ballet theatre is zero. How do you predict how many years this could be zero or when some numbers will be generated there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U139	Thank you. I predict that it will remain a zero for several years, but I can't be more specific. In the case of cultural institutions, it has been a long-standing problem that investments have been very burdensome to the budget. In fact, education has the same problem. Investment has been burdensome in many ways, and sometimes this burden has also been hidden in the case of cultural institutions and has only come out later. But on the other hand, wages are low. So I wouldn't expect a quick solution here. There is no such institution on the first line of priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U140	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U141	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In the forecast, you will see a pretty good wage increase next year, as personal income tax growth is projected at 12.1%. Are you still as optimistic as you are and how much you predict the increase in income tax received by the local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U142	Thank you. I've got forecast numbers somewhere. In summary, it can be said that the situation of the municipalities is improving quite well. Two aspects need to be assessed for tax receipts: employment and average wages. The increase in average wages, not in all sectors, is around 5% and the increase in employment is over 1%. On employment, I can say that seasonal fluctuations are not too important. It was now the first week of the increase in registered unemployment, but it had been projected. Until the spring of next year, the situation is the same where seasonal unemployment will undoubtedly increase, but the average annual unemployment should decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U143	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U144	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! It is certainly the right of the owner to take the dividend. Looking at the Estonian state's dividend policy in relation to Eesti Energia, you can see that almost 200 million euros of the dividend has been taken from here in a few years. The dividend will increase while the owner will increase the share capital by EUR 154 million. How do you think the financial transactions that the state, as owner of Eesti Energia, is having the same effect on our budget and, on the other hand, on the economy and consumers of the country? All this policy and these financial transactions are quite serious, transactions have been made with large amounts of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U145	Thank you. The dividend is good for the budget. If it's done according to the right rules, it's not a superdividend, it's a natural regular cost. But the allocation of investments is not so regular and even. There are separate decisions made. 150 million euros will be the amount that will be placed in Eesti Energia as a financial transaction next year. In doing so, the government will certainly follow the investment plan that Eesti Energia will present and will make its decision accordingly. These decisions stand a little apart. Of course, they have a connection, but certainly the state should not take the view that the owner lets cash stand on the bill and then the company simply spends it. The government does not directly control these expenditures, but if necessary, the dividend will also be taken in a slightly different rhythm when investments are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U146	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U147	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. My question also concerns local authorities. You said that rudeness was avoided in the last negotiations between the state and local governments, but now that municipalities are making next year's budgets, I have heard a lot of dissatisfaction with the fact that these amounts do not increase very much. You have said that EUR 280 million will be increased, but it is also selective, because not all municipalities get them. In view of how the Prime Minister has recently spoken about the fact that it is not the task of the local authorities to provide services, but rather to be a more balanced force for the central government of the country, did you take more account of the fact that the local government does not have to carry out these tasks on the ground (i utreeri, of course), or did you think that 2012 would also have to live through the local authorities politely?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U148	I don't think the municipalities have been harmed. We've been raising this part of the municipal income tax for years, and I think it makes sense now that they've been taken back from here. I have always wondered why it is based on the fact that any reduction in the tax burden will take place at a rate or at a minimum cost to the local government in no way have to limit the cost of the government taking on everything. Of course, if there are more difficult times, there will be inequality. It is also known that municipalities have been in deficit for a long time. It is only now, because of the relatively violent restrictions we applied during the crisis, that they have no longer been able to live in debt, but also in the best boom years they lived in minus. This is a financial problem. When it went down, they were much slower here, with a cut in operating costs of 4%. In total, it was slower. Income growth was relatively stable in this respect. So I don't think local governments are some kind of oppressed social group. Municipalities are different and their problems are elsewhere rather than there that a little tax percentage has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U149	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U150	Thank you. Dear Minister, You stressed in your speech the importance of keeping public debt under control. But we know that, as of today, Estonia has promised to pay some 150 million euros, 30 million euros a year, and, in addition, to secure loans of around 2 billion euros, plus taxes. If all of this, or even part of it, comes back to being executed, where does the state take the money from? He's probably borrowing, and we're in so-called debt. This loan will also be passed on to future generations. What do you say to the doctors and the teachers that were on Toompea last night? Is it that we are helping the Greeks, but we are in trouble and cannot raise wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U151	Yesterday, through the media, I heard quite a number of stupidities that politicians probably put in the mouths of teachers. One also touched on the Riigikogu, the way you buy clothes for yourself with state money. Don't freak them out! We would not borrow to pay wages, no one would go to take out loans to pay wages, no reasonable country will do so today. However, the loans are intended for a more reasonable purpose than to cover current expenditure. Because we don't plan on liquidating schools, and then we can pay back the loan. It's not like that. These costs don't go away. What was said yesterday on television (at least one member of the Riigikogu) is a complete nonsense that teachers' salaries must be borrowed. That's absolute impudent. This suggests that we will soon have no teachers, and then we will be able to pay back the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U152	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The budgets of local governments are known to be independent, i.e. the municipalities themselves decide on their own money. It is planned to leave the net burden on local authorities to 60%. As you yourself mentioned, this will improve the balance of the government sector. Great! But has it been analysed how many local authorities will not be able to participate in the various investment grants for next year, as co-financing will be hampered by the so-called 60% limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U154	Thank you. This is a very small part of the municipalities. Before adjusting the loan limit, there was talk of 20% of the municipalities that could not borrow more than 60% of the loan burden, but, frankly, they should not. That's what this is about. So how many of them are left now? I don't have any more recent data. It should be analysed (these data are certainly available in our house) how much this 60% limit increases in absolute value after the creation of groups. For example, in the case of Tallinn, it has been assumed that you cannot borrow for hospitals. There's still a chance. There's nothing dramatic here. It's a pretty low self-limitation that municipalities have to take into account. We will compensate for this with the high level of investment, which I mentioned in my speech. More of the money available to you than to take out a bank loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U155	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U156	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! In accordance with the procedure of the reply, it is actually not quite true that your claim that it does not worsen the situation of local authorities. If there is a place to save for a very long time, this place will need more investment in the future. But my question is about taxes. You foresee that tax revenues will increase next year, tobacco excise, social tax and VAT receipts will increase, as well as personal income tax receipts, which will increase by as much as 12%. Where would that increase come from, at what cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U157	Thank you. As to whether or not this will worsen the situation, I would stress that I clearly said: compared to the current situation, this restriction will not become more stringent than in 2011, but rather more flexible. I no longer consider the increase in the loan burden beyond a certain limit to be an improvement, but a deterioration. I think this restriction will ultimately make the municipalities healthier, those who already have a debt burden of over 60%, but that is what we are talking about. As regards the increase in income tax, this is an estimate by the forecasters. The biggest players here are the increase in average wages, the increase in employment, but also the increase in other incomes, such as business income. Of course, both economic growth and inflation are more indirect influences. This 12% is still a nominal increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U158	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U159	Thank you. Good minister! You mentioned in your reply that you would personally have been somewhat more modest or conservative in forecasting revenue for the budget. At the same time, the current budget is based on the base scenario of the Ministry of Finance. Are we in the same position as I think that the near future is likely to show a little too much optimism in the forecast of the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U160	Thank you. Once again, I put a number of things together. My gut is certainly no better than the calculations of the forecasters. I described a personal intuition on the one hand. On the other hand, I would have been more conservative in drawing up the budget. But not much more conservative, because it is known that there is a structural surplus and we are still directing the money at which the minus is generated, mostly for economic recovery. It calms down that 1.5% of this 2.1% is direct investment, not from taxes, but from external funds and CO2 money, plus the maximum amount of euro money. That's the level of spending. That's what calms me down. Investments should in themselves keep this risk down. But I'm not going to give you any predictions according to your gut. I just wanted to take more account of the risk scenarios, but it's just my will. I think that reality is also what others want. They also have very logical reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U161	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U162	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! In recent times, the issue of teachers' salaries has become very acute and has been discussed in both ways. Minister Aaviksoo has said that we need to keep 54 upper secondary schools, and the Prime Minister has also said that we need to reduce the school network, etc. However, neither the increase in teachers' salaries nor the alleged planned reform of the school network are reflected in the budget. When I look at this budget, it looks like next year, the situation will remain the same as it is now. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U163	Thank you. Looking at the budget, you can see that we spend almost the most money on education in Europe. It is also very clear that investment in the school network will take a very large part of our education costs. Teachers' salaries at the same time are relatively low. At the same time, the number of teachers and students still needs to be compared. So, broadly speaking, this is a need for structural reforms in education. They take time. Teachers' pay concerns have undoubtedly been cumulative over outstanding reforms. Society cannot continue to increase the cost of one area as a matter of priority, as it has actually done in education. One minute there's a line coming up. At one point, you need to look inside and increase efficiency, including in the school network.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U164	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In recent years, there have been fewer and fewer lines in the state budget, but later in the year it becomes clear that certain amounts are allocated from these lines to several NGOs. For example, such a situation has developed, to mention two examples, that the association of owners receives millions, but the movement of the Kodukant never knows for sure whether or not the money is being allocated to him. You yourself indicated in one response that there were hidden allocations. How can we improve this situation in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U166	I don't think I referred to that today. I referred to the fact that, even in hidden form, there should be no increase in the budgetary burden, which is often done by law. But my opinion is that all sorts of individual NGOs in the budget should not have a lower number of in the budget and should be treated more equally. It is not possible to establish an absolute rule, but we have proposed to the government every year that the structure of the budget be harmonised, but that every time the Riigikogu does not forgive us, the Riigikogu tells us to rewrite it. We have taken steps forward in this area so that the budget is easier to read and subjects treated more equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U167	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U168	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This budget has been established by the Government Coalition as a budget for investment and growth. My question is about research and development. In your report, you indicated that you thought it was important, and that is why it is not being curtailed. However, as a percentage of GDP, it will decrease slightly: this year it will be just over 1%, next year it will be 0.95%, which you have rounded up a little bit. But the problem is that it is almost twice as much as the state budget strategy adopted in April does. Of course, I'm not asking why, because there is no money. What I am asking is: do you agree with me that, both in this aspect and in the budget in general, there is unfortunately little planned investment in increasing the competitiveness of our companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U169	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was trying to see how similar the costs of the various agencies were. Of course, it is difficult to carry out an exact scientific analysis, because there are not always overlapping structural units. However, by looking at the budget staff costs and composition tables, I had the impression that, for example, in the structure of the Ministry of Education and Research, information specialists would receive a much lower salary than the officials working in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. If one has significantly lower staff costs for each indicator and is intended to cut them further, the other, on the contrary, I see a significant increase in the budget line. Is this unequal treatment possible in the budget, or have I been seriously wrong about something?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U171	Thank you. I'm sure it's possible. MKM is one of the few ministries responsible for IT development in the Estonian government sector. The Ministry of Finance also has a pretty big role to play here in the future, but the higher level of IT development, planning, etc. also makes a little more demands on the choice of specialists. So I fully understand when the Minister has recruited a more expensive workforce. I don't know about the Ministry of Education, but it's also a wider question of budgetary choices about who gets paid or who gets paid. If there is a greater need in the Ministry of Education for people who are able to talk about education reform, then I understand that there may have been a greater tendency of the pool to IT. But that's what the ministries should ask. My smart-ass can go down in the woods, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U172	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U173	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I am certainly not a fan of the idea that all the costs and revenues of the state budget must be directly linked, but it is known that local governments still have major problems with the maintenance of local roads. The 5% in the current budget, or the 6.7% in next year's budget, will certainly not guarantee that they will be able to actually maintain and repair their roads in addition to mandatory snow control. In years' time, it will create a situation where these roads need to be restored, not maintained. I ask you: why are you fundamentally opposed to the fixed amount of excise duty going to the municipalities for road maintenance? The question is whether this could be, as our proposal has been, 15% or 10% supported by MKM. But why is the principle that this could be stable funding that municipalities can count on every year not appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U174	The municipal road maintenance allowance has been increased by 40%. I think it is an enormous increase, and the final amount, if I am not mistaken, was 17.8 million euros. But as far as fixing this percentage is concerned, please do not come out with these ideas again in this hall! This is the biggest source of instability that can be invented in the first place to imagine that we are fixing the budget in advance with percentages. There will be new things, there will be less need for old ones, and then you will change the law. Of course it won't, it's more like the country's going over the top. There are two famous exceptions in this regard. One is 2% of the cost of protection, which is clearly an international obligation, and for which we receive more security in return thanks to collective protection. And the second is this excise duty of 75%. I think this has been a completely absurd restriction from the beginning. Only the flow of euro money has we experienced practical problems, as has been the case with the levelling. You're gonna have to use that money, or they're gonna take it away. But the fact that we say in advance that 75% of the excise duty has to go into shares would still be bullshit, because rail transport itself has a direct impact on the environment and all this is very different. We can never say that we are one of the self-reproducing systems, the more you drive, the more money you get. It is flexibility, however, that we must add to the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U175	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U176	This attitude is financially completely neutral and cultural workers are mostly treated in the same way as other public sector workers. I am not going to mention individual exceptions for the sake of time use in the hall, who still have an increase in wages. But as far as feelings are concerned, cultural workers have a very warm attitude. However, we must recognise that the financial governance of the cultural field has not been perfect. Politicians have also always taken a turn to cultural christenings when there have been financial troubles, but the reality is that these mischiefs can't raise wages. Trouble must be paid. Culture, as I have already mentioned, has been very successful with investments, but it certainly does not improve the chances of raising wages. On the contrary, other operating costs are increasing. Even if we make basic investments on the account of foreign money and forget co-financing, there will still be long-term operating costs, in many cases loan interest rates and rent payments. In fact, there is a similar situation in education, only the difference between the wage and average wage of educators has been decreasing steadily. Unfortunately, cultural workers have not been so popular in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U177	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U178	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm gonna ask you about the unemployment fund. You said that if we had to raise the necessary funds from outside, we would have to pay a lot of interest. In fact, there are investors in Estonia, so that is not the issue. But the main thing is that you want to use these funds for running costs. By the summer of next year, the unemployment fund will already have EUR 400 million in these funds. This is a very large amount of money and not so much money is needed for the unemployed. It is clear that you are simply introducing it on a rolling basis. I say, how beautiful or respectable is it to put a hand in a stranger's pocket? I would also stress that it is not public money, it is public money, the payment of which has been agreed between employers and employees and which should go for this purpose. Is it legal to take money like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U179	It's legal! But this witchcraft I do not share what you represent here is some kind of very special state money. The Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund were not created as private companies, and the three people who made their hands and said that now we have agreed could only agree that they would pursue health and labour market policies together or rather implement them in accordance with the rules laid down by law. The use of reserves has not been or can be addressed by this agreement or law. That's not what these cashiers are for. These cashiers were still created as instruments for policy-making in a specific area, and only for that purpose. I am extremely sorry that those whom we have invited to the table have taken the view, particularly with regard to the unemployment fund, that this is now their very special money. But there are also the politicians here, both the Riigikogu and the government, who say that in society, apart from employers and employees, there are also first unemployed, whose money it really is not the money of the types that stood there, and there are children and elderly people for whom we organise public finances. Those who laid hands at that table are among the strongest. Employers and employees are the strongest part of society. We, on the other hand, are pursuing public finances in order to help the weakest in particular. And we're not spending this money, we're guaranteeing the liquidity of the country. We're not gonna spend that money! I agree that this is their money, but I do not agree that the country as a whole suffers up to 10 million a year from the 2015 budget because the strongest said they wanted to sit at the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U180	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U181	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The revenue of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will increase this year mainly due to the sale of property. It is unlikely that the sale of Kiev's embassy apartments, as well as the Brussels residence, raises a lot of questions in the general public, the more so certainly the sale of the Copenhagen Embassy. Please tell me exactly what led to the decision to sell this embassy! How useful is it in the near future to sell such a building in the Danish capital, and most importantly: what will happen to our representation and representation in Copenhagen in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U182	I'm not a big embassy specialist, and I hesitated a little bit about whether I'm confusing when I say it's a newer kind of building, which has been extremely structurally unsuccessful. Or is it more like another house I visited years ago? Or an older villa I've been to recently, and it's relatively amortized and it wants to be hommed up? But I think these decisions are the right ones. Since I don't know all the embassies very well myself, these assessments go a little cross-cross for me. However, these assessments have been carefully considered and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeatedly raised this issue in the government and proved the decisions taken to be correct. I just get mixed up in different embassy cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U183	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U184	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking you about your jurisdiction. If we are looking at the lines of the Tax and Customs Board, the cost of human resources has remained unchanged or increased by 0.87% in substance, and management costs have decreased by 5.57%. If we put aside the figures from the Conjuncture Institute, according to which the black market is about EUR 60 million, the question arises as to whether it is wise to make savings in this profession. In fact, these people should give the state more tax revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U185	The operating costs of the tax administration are essentially not reduced. The more detailed answer that the component specifically changed there, I'm indebted right now. The external image can be one, the content of the second. I have this accident that my most difficult negotiations were with the Minister of Finance, and I did not have much debate with him. But wasn't it that they agreed to cut economic costs so that the staff costs would get a little cooler? Gotta check it out. Next time, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U186	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U187	First of all, the amount of subsidies is clearly falling for demographic reasons. There are fewer beneficiaries of child benefit, and this is the result of one demographic gap. There have been some fluctuations here, and the decrease in birth rates has been very small. These are long historical processes, you know that very well! Development plans must still be interpreted in a rational way. I do not believe that there is an increase in the level playing field. That would be very wrong, and I think that universal child support could be the first to be the main of which, as we face demographic challenges, undoubtedly the ageing of the population across Europe will be reduced proportionally. You can't really lose them. But there is no need for universal support. We do not need cash for our children running in this hall so that they will first be taken from us and then returned. After all, we are practically all parents or children or grandparents. Social support? Social support must come first and foremost through services. It's that simple. People of working age need not be dependent on the state. These people are actually the strongest part of society and they can handle their children on their own. As far as cash is concerned, the support of society must consist of services and, once again, services, not cash.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U188	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U189	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! This week, almost all committees of the Riigikogu are discussing a document such as Estonia's European Union policy for the next period. Tell me, to what extent this document is compatible with next year's budget, or rather, how is the budget for next year's budget consistent with this document? Is there any connection between these documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U190	Of course there's a connection. Development plans record things that are also in the context of budgeting. But their focus is inevitably a little different and in one way they are not comparable either. These are, in general, attitudes and tendencies that link the budget to our European policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U191	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U192	You can verify that fact. Can't rule out there's a mistake. It really should be checked. No, we're not counting any higher price increases. These are still calculations that have changed sometimes. In the meantime, some legislation may have been implemented which brings about a change in VAT, but in another place it has not been corrected. In general, we have been able to avoid such mistakes, but it cannot be ruled out that this is what this is about. In the case of VAT, the same draft, which we adopted in the spring with relatively great controversy, is the strongest factor in recent times. This is the issue of deposit and VAT on fuel. This has proved to be an extremely successful reform, although yes, as well as violence against businesses, but justified violence in this case. The collection of this tax now shows that it was the villains from whom we are now getting the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U193	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U194	Thank you. Good minister! We intend to increase the share capital of companies by EUR 156 million in the budget. This does not come out of the explanatory memorandum to the draft budget, but I have heard that this poor little company, which otherwise is not well managed, is Eesti Energia. I understand that this in itself is not reflected in our budget deficit, nor does it affect the budgetary position, but it means that money really needs to be found somewhere. My question is: are we going to help this small enterprise with reserves or are we going to make more commitments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U195	Well, that's an obligation, and we'll cover it next year at the expense of reserves. I'm just saying, we don't doubt how much this company will survive. We doubt his ability to obtain a reasonable loan if we do not strengthen his capital base. This is about financial relations. The company's investment programmes, however, are very impressive and the owner has to give them more support, of course optionally. We do not agree with everything the company wants to do as investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U196	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U197	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'm still asking you about the local government. I am very interested in whether you are convinced that all local authorities will survive next winter and even next year. If I look at the news from the last few weeks-months about how local authorities are currently trying to find money, then one way is to increase the place fees for kindergarten by 20% to 25%. The budget will also be balanced by switching off street lighting lamps. Looking at the debt burden on local governments, which is 550 million euros, do you not think that local governments have been financially jammed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U198	No, it doesn't. I'd rather say they've done better than we were afraid. If they have very low fees from old times, 25% should not be a big increase. In any case, families where you can put a child in kindergarten are in a better position than those who do not. In this sense, kindergarten pay is not a matter of ownership that should be despised. This is a natural reward for a very specific and expensive service. Parents can work at the same time and make money. So I'm happy when local governments find savings. I believe they are making reasonable use of these opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U199	Please, Mr Lenk, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U200	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to my previous question, to which you said that the Western press broadly commends our budgetary policy and Estonia at all. Since these articles have not been particularly referred to us here, I specifically ask the source: have you been asked and have you mentioned in these articles our average salary, which is around EUR 800, namely EUR 857, or the increase in pension, which is only EUR 18 next year, or the child benefit, which is EUR 19? If so, wouldn't foreign journalists scare themselves out of their faces? They still do?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U201	I have to be honest with you that I am watching the Eastern press worse, but specifically for you I can tell you that Comrade Putin has also praised us for our budgetary policy, not only the Western press, but not just imperialists. The fact that our standard of living is lower for historical reasons than in many other parts of Europe is generally known to questioners. At the same time, it is admired for its rapid rise, for its economic growth, which is still very clearly recommended as a model for the rest of Europe, which has built its standard of living on debt to a very large extent. As I mentioned in my speech, such countries are already spending revenue at the end of the year and paying 3% of GDP for it. Notice and multiply the percentage of this budget! 6%, at least. This is something that is close to our education costs, for example. We're going to spend 7% of them. You don't want those debts and you don't want to repeat those mistakes. We are certainly approaching the European standard of living quite quickly in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U202	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U203	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. It may not be best to ask about one particular object, but I would still like to ask you a question about the new building of the Estonian National Museum. After all, this is a very much talked, debated and important object for the Estonian people. There's been a foundation for building a museum that's probably going down now. People are being gathered together, and I can't describe the result in positive colors. On the Cultural Endowment line, I also do not count from this budget how the preparatory phase of the museum's construction could be financed next year. Can you state the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Government in the perspective of 2012, how the construction of the Estonian National Museum will be financed and in what amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U204	I argue that the main producer is the auditer, the specific department of the Ministry of Finance, who has shown Estonia very special in general, but in a positive way special. He does his job, he has his professionalism and, when compared to the general culture and situation of the European Union, Estonia can always praise. We have very few infringements, we have an extremely high level of use of subsidies, we can say, the best level of use. Whether we have the lowest number of infringements, I cannot say that, but we are certainly among the best-off countries, I believe. And now that we have the best internal control, we can be proud again, only it can cost you dearly. I don't know for sure, I've never been in a situation like this before, but I still believe those officials who have explained to us that there is nothing dramatic in the end. A little shame and embarrassment, but we'll get over it!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U205	Please, colleague Jüri Ratas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U206	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Minister of Finance! Today, and in recent weeks at all, the topic 'Earlier entry into force of the ESM' has been on the agenda. It has been said that this could happen in the second half of next year. If that is the case, we do not have the resources in the budget for that now. Where would these ESM contributions come from? It has been said that the money will surely be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U207	As the earlier entry into force is undecided, we could not write it in the draft, but this amendment can be made, if necessary, before the adoption of the budget. If not before, then later in the form of a change of budget. However, I think that this year's decision on the earlier entry into force will come to the conclusion that it is rather a yes. And where do we get that money? It is clearly a financial transaction, and we have this capacity in the budget. Of course, this does not make our situation any easier, but it does not make our situation much more difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U208	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U209	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I've been listening to you very carefully for a long time, and now I'm a little surprised. Your calls have appeared like a new lexician. You emphasise that we promised to increase defence costs and that our monetary policy will be set an example and that we will be praised. Would you be so kind as to tell me who these praisers are and why this praise is so important to you? Yesterday there were 2,000 teachers in the square and a few hundred in the Riigikogu, I heard no one say that you and your government were praised.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U210	I'm afraid the people you went crazy and who invaded this Parliament, by the way, I don't think this is the way I'm doing it, they were talking about something else. But speaking of monetary policy, I can bring you a long list: Financial Times, Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, Spiegel, Economist... The list is certainly even longer. I have given dozens of interviews during the year, and I have received only positive feedback from other articles. That's it: we're admired. There's nothing to do. While others have debts, troubles, and debt crises, our suffering is linked to the sins of others, not to our own. And to such an ecstasy, where one office and one parliament are being humiliated, we do not have much, fortunately. I've never seen an incident like the one I had yesterday. Keep this house decent after all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U211	Please, Lauri Laasi, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U212	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, As far as the bill is concerned, I think the government should first and foremost earn the admiration of its people. I hope you can do this! But here's the question. On September 24, you said on Kuku's radio that IRL ministers are better at asking for money. What did you mean by that? Is the logic of sharing money the one who asks better, it gets more? And is that why the social sector is squealing and the budgets for defence and internal security are expanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U213	As for the admiration, I don't think it's in our paycheck. First of all, we're still cursed. That is our common concern. But more than anyone who is less cursed is shown by the election results, both personal and political. What's the question again? Oh, yeah. Cuckoo on the radio? Now, that's one horrible thing that the press lives largely on its own writings, replicating them and recreating them. It's really starting to harass me. The money for the IRL ministers was that time, I remember exactly the journalist Kärt Anvelt's question, not my answer. I responded with strength, as much as I was given time, to the way in which these differences have arisen. There was one 2%. I also mentioned the most recent distribution of money, such as police and rescue officers, who gained a few million more. Above all, however, my message was that it was not about asking, it was about honest budgeting. We made rules where, purely statisticalally, the budget of the IRL ministers really grew more, but the rules were equal. It just happened that we, other ministers, ended up doing some sort of work on buildings, for example, cultural days, some projects, etc. It was just like that! Political choices were made as balanced as possible in the coalition negotiations. So don't interpret that title the way it says it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U214	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U215	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Finance! There has been a lot of talk in recent months about the possible closure of rescue teams. As an alternative, voluntary rescue teams have been proposed and a security service offered by them. Here's my question. I'm investigating the state budget here and there in the corner. In this year's budget, the Estonian Private Salvation Association has 500000 kroons for operating grants, but I do not see this line in the new year's budget. My question is this: as Minister of Finance, would you support it if the Riigikogu proposed to add some amount to the free-will salvation union during the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U216	I guess everything depends on the choices you take that money for and how much. I suggest you listen to the Minister of Speciality, who is Ken-Marti Vaher, who knows whether this Union has been able to make effective use of the money it has made so far. I'm not familiar with that. Ask him first whether the last year's financial allocation was correct and whether there is a problem of lack of people or money in the case of free-will rescuers. Talk to him first!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U217	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U218	Good Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. On 20 October, the Government of the Republic approved the development plan for children and families for the years 2012 to 2020. It states, among other things, that the social costs for families and children should be increased. In Estonia, social costs for families and children currently account for 1.7% of GDP, i.e. much less than in the European Union and the Nordic countries, where they are around 3%. Increasing the population is still one of Estonia's biggest challenges. This is also acknowledged by the Minister of Social Affairs. However, in the first nine months of this year, 785 children were born less than a year ago. However, the challenges of the Estonian state and the objectives set out in the development plan are not reflected in the state budget, which does not foresee an increase in family benefits, but rather reduces by 3.5%. I ask: why does the government not reflect the objectives of the approved development plan in the state budget and why are these development plans being made if they are not to be met?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U219	Thank you. Minister of Finance! My second question concerns revenue from the state budget. We were able to experience through the press that at the last session of the cabinet, the government freely wrote non-tax revenues into revenue. I want to know about the higher VAT receipts. It can be read here that more VAT is expected to be collected because consumption volumes will increase next year. From the explanatory memorandum to the national budget, we can see that the forecast for VAT is based on the three-component end-use model in the European Union and that, accordingly, an increase of 6.2% is expected in 2012. However, according to the budget figures, an increase in VAT is planned at 7.1% instead. Is the reason why the government will not only consider the three components of the model but also take into account the higher price increase? If prices rise, of course VAT will also be more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U220	I believe that 1% was quite accurate. It was 160.5 if I'm not mistaken, and it's pretty close to 1%. It's more like a distance from 0.95. But maybe you're right. It's easier for you to go through the paperwork now than I have on a little table. As far as supporting entrepreneurship is concerned, I personally do not think that it is the state that determines the effectiveness of entrepreneurship. I like those entrepreneurs who say that a decent entrepreneur does not expect support from the state, but rather acts on his own. And as the criticisms of the National Audit Office have shown, these business grants have not been very accurate either. The increase in effectiveness is highly questionable, and the individual examples are strange for me too. If the big factory appreciates that it received support in order to asphalt its site, then, forgive me, there are others that want to asphalt, why must a large company receive support for this? How does this increase his productivity? Why him, why not the others? It's more of a debate. I am not convinced that business grants have been effective in the middle. At the same time, it cannot be denied that there are also very good examples of opposites, where it is really evident that there is a commitment to structural improvements, to further shifts in the value chain in a clear know-how direction, to valuing the knowledge-how economy. In any case, there are examples. But in my opinion, there are both positive and strange examples of both business support and research development. The national support mechanism is never impeccable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U221	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U222	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, On the one hand, I repeat the question to clarify, on the other hand, at the request of your colleague, the Minister for Defence, I ask you a question because he did not know how to answer. The issue relates to the development plan prepared by the Government of Ida-Virumaa. Last year, when we approved this year's budget, there was no direct funding for this, but it was written in through other ministries either way or through other ministries. When I now looked at the new draft budget, I did not find the corresponding funding in the budget of other ministries. Can you specify what the plans are for the Ida-Virumaa development plan that the government approved a year ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U223	Ida-Viru development plan? That's the line you're looking for? The development plan is still spreading across different areas, and I have already answered this question once, that I cannot mention a specific figure from next year's budget concerning the implementation of the Ida-Viru County Development Plan. That is too specific a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U224	Please, Mr Enn Frontland, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U225	Thank you. Dear Minister, The main tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs next year are to maintain the current network of representations and to create an Estonian office in India as a long-awaited initiative. Please tell me what the budget for next year will allow for more detail in Delhi. The amount to be allocated is not very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U226	The word'representation' is all I can answer. It is still the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and perhaps the Minister for Economic Affairs, who will give and evaluate what can be done at the Indian Mission. I dare not even say by heart the size of the staff that was assigned to it, even though it was negotiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U227	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U228	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, to clarify my previous question, my question directly concerned Estonia's national regional programmes and the purely Estonian state funds allocated to them. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget opens them up beautifully. Foreign funds and our own national programmes are separately listed and both are actually decreasing: the 20% reduction in support for regional development at the expense of external funds and 4.77% reduction in our own support for regional development. But that was an explanation. My second question is the centralisation of accounts, which the Ministry of Finance is carefully managing and implementing. In the budget, I consider that the Ministry of Agriculture has a negative balance: the staff costs of the agencies will be reduced by centralising the accounts by about EUR 80,000, while the central costs of the Ministry of Agriculture will increase by EUR 165000 in connection with the centralisation of the accounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U229	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U230	The amounts are small, but how can that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U231	I didn't get to follow one was 80000 and the other was 165000 euros? There could be some kind of momentary cost. It should be checked more precisely, I'm not a computing machine, that I know all the data by heart. However, the overall result of such consolidation is still savings and improved information management. That's what we do. There may be some temporary costs there, but I should ask about it. As far as these programmes are concerned, I do not exclude that this was some kind of addition by the Riigikogu, which we certainly do not draw the cost base. What you are doing in this last phase, relatively intuitively and politically, does not match the rules under which the budget can actually be made. It's not like you're gonna raise a million into some acceptable area, and then it's gonna be there forever, and it's gonna increase. No! New things are coming in, old ones, the systemless are being taken down. I suspect there might be a similar case because we cleaned the base of the systemless and one-off costs before we started adding new costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U232	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U233	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U234	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The programme of action of the Government of the Republic talks about increasing regional balance. The Estonian state has had and still has a number of regional programmes in the area of infrastructure, the Setumaa programme and so on. There are also regional development funds. In the budget for next year, the amount of money allocated to these Estonian regional programmes will decrease by 4.77%. How is this consistent with the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U235	Minister of Finance! According to the National Audit Office's report, the average salary of cultural workers in 2005 was 13% lower than the average wage in Estonia. By 2010, this gap had already grown to 20%. I mean, during the years of recession, the wages of cultural workers fell much more than the average wage in Estonia. The 2012 budget does not foresee an increase in the wages of cultural workers, while the average gross wage is projected to rise by 5% in 2012. Consequently, this gap will increase further in the coming year. You really don't see the problem? And how do you explain this attitude of the government towards cultural workers and therefore Estonian culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U236	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question concerns the administration of the Ministry of Defence. For example, the budget of the Laidoner Museum has planned an increase of almost 8 000% in the budget for the following year. We learned that, to a large extent, this money would go in addition to the museum of occupation that we have, to build a museum of victims of communism. Perhaps it is understandable, given the historical interest of our Minister of Defence. But I would like to ask you this question, because you yourself have also been Minister of Defense. Is it right to fund museums from the Ministry of Defence budget? Is that normal? Couldn't the money for the development and maintenance of museums come from another ministry's budget line?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U237	However, I see here a clear national defence objective for the creation of the will for defence and the culture concerned. And this is obviously also accepted by NATO's methodology. I would not take positions here in relation to the specific amounts that the Minister of Defence has considered necessary to allocate to his museums. It is clear that he also clearly has personal preferences here, and in military matters external props are certainly often more important than we accept in civil matters. I'm a friend of museums, but I don't know exactly how he's joined these institutions or what he's getting there. So this is definitely a matter for the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U238	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U239	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question relates to income tax. We can see that income tax is set at 12% more in the budget for next year. The growth rate of local governments is 8. And we also see that the bank's forecast for growth has been reduced. In this context, my question to you is this: do you think that excessive income tax is planned for the 2012 state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U240	I've already answered it twice here. I'm not really responsible for getting these projections right. I have no right to interfere with them. I have the right to intervene in the budgetary process. I've got explanations. Income tax receipts are influenced by employment changes, affect wage income and business income. And in the explanatory memorandum, these components are written off. This is the area in which I am making political decisions on which expenditure project I dare to submit to the government. As I have already praised myself here, I am a well-needed and cautious person in monetary matters. I would have been more careful when drawing up the budget than when the end result came. But it doesn't make much difference. This year's sign should no longer be cuts; society is tired of mechanical cuts. The emphasis must be on reforms and efficiency.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U241	It's perfectly consistent. We devoted so much attention to this measure at a very early stage that these sums were the first to run out. I'm afraid that's the way it is. We spent that money, and that's it. It was foreign money, regional development fund money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U242	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! From the perspective of the European Union, our budget looks so small, very sweet. But he has also had a small cosmetic operation, namely the takeover of the reserves of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund. Maybe it made sense. You've explained to us before that it's better than borrowing money from the foreign market. But there's something I don't understand. If we'd borrowed money, we'd have done something reasonable for that money, maybe even paid teachers. With regard to the Health Insurance Fund's reserves, it was said that they would rest well with the Treasury, and no one would touch them. But what costs do they cover? Or is there nothing to cover or what's the trick? Explain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U243	Well, that is the next item on the agenda, but I will illustrate. If you take money to a bank, you do not need to go to the bank all the time to check whether the money is still available, for example, if Vahur Kraft has not bought a trade car or if he has granted a loan to someone who is building a house for himself. You know you can go to the bank at any time and get that money, as much as you need to spend. Here, in the case of our country, no one is taking any kind of loan or other risk, all costs are foreseen. The question is how large reserves one or the other cashier can use, how efficiently the reserves can be managed. This is one of the money reserves on which some sums are taken for expenses and on which more money comes all the time, but the money is at the bottom of that reserve. It should still be treated as if we were paying interest to the respective cashiers for this bottom stock, but it would be an extremely wrong alternative to start paying loan interest to some banks for the same amount. We shouldn't do this. At the moment, relations with the Health Insurance Fund are such that we manage these amounts ourselves. A bigger issue than its management, however, is that these instruments should be flexibly consolidated, usable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U244	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U245	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister! As we all know, external subsidies will account for nearly 20% of the state budget next year. However, yesterday there was such news that payments of structural funds to Estonia have been temporarily suspended. However, the biggest part of external support is probably structural funds. Please, can this news yesterday and the steps that follow have any impact on the budget for next year? If so, to what extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U246	According to my current knowledge, the answer is definitely no. We can move those money again this year. And we also have the resources to keep existing projects running, and there can be no sanctions against them. The question, in short, is still Estonia's enthusiasm. We were so eager that we began to criticize our system, even though it was one of the best of all, one of the most decent. And so well we criticised that the European Commission spooked away, raised its hands: you are doing well, but now we have no choice but to stop the money's income, because your internal control has done everything, everything has been very critically examined and called for some procedures that are, in fact, largely formal. So Estonia has cut its finger deeply. But there are no major consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U247	Please, Mr Peeter Kreitzberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U248	Thank you. Dear Minister, I absolutely agree with you that Estonia produces much more defence capabilities with NATO friends than with itself. But at the same time, I am of the opinion that the teacher also produces an incredible amount of more and perhaps more than the Defence Forces in the long term for the Estonian state. Our NATO friends have generally not reached 2% of GDP. Can you answer why it was now necessary to reach this in our defence spending so quickly, completely ignoring the teachers' legitimate wage demands? Was this matter even discussed, or was political choice simply made by means of an agreement? How could this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U249	The question is how quickly to reach this figure. We once set a target for reaching this level in 2010, then postponed it until 2011 and now until 2012. I don't want to give in anymore. It's a question of dignity: you've promised something, you've set a purpose, and now that you've got the economy up, you're still not doing it. No doubt, Estonia needs collective protection more than any other country, no matter how much it says, that our border position and a large number of historical reasons require our independent defence capability. It's a big mess, let's be honest. We can still defend ourselves and intimidate the enemy collectively. So it's a matter of conscience. I accept that 2% now. When the Riigikogu redefines the budget, it remakes it, but I accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U250	Please, Mr Kalla, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U251	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We hear here four or five times a week that we have the best financial policy. We have now heard that we are also the best self-criticists in Europe and have accidentally fallen into a hole. The average wage should rise according to the budget, but we know that in the public sector, it is frozen and therefore, due to inflation, real wages are decreasing. According to the budget, inflation is expected to be lower next year than this year, below 3%, but will increase again in 2013 due to the opening of the electricity market. Do you think that everything in the budget has been done to make inflation as low as possible next year, or would there have been anything else we could have done to bring inflation down?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U252	The talk of controlling inflation is highly artificial in Estonia's circumstances, because what the state can do is basically done. We will not live in debt if the nominal surplus for next year is not covered. Construction investments also fuel inflation to some extent, but we will still do it. If you take the budgetary balance, if you take our undoubtedly good competition policy and sufficiently careful restraint of monopolies, then these are three things that can be done. However, if we look more closely at the balance of our budget, there are some critical factors. For example, limiting and freezing operating costs is the most effective keeper of inflation at all, as it is a signal to the entire labour market. Whether we are going to race again, to drive inflation over 10%, just as it happened in 2008, or whether it is clear that we are still treating the wounds of the boom age and the wage increases that we had here in 2006, 2007 and still in 2008, are the real causes of our current situation. It's just that we broke our wages and couldn't be followed by anything but a setback. The same was true for teachers whose salaries, unlike most, have not actually been directly reduced. But these 20% year-old jumps and this premium growth, that's pretty much reaching the limit of opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U253	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue on the subject of the issue of the Olga Soldier, which concerns euro payments and the use of EUR 92 million. In fact, it is a real risk that 20% of next year's state budget will be hit. Would you name those implementing bodies or managing bodies or managing authorities that have created this situation because they have not been able to act rationally?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U255	I don't know anything about my great authority, but I do know that the Minister of Social Affairs, unlike me, has a great future ahead of me. I don't dare say anything to him!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U256	There is simply no answer at the moment. There's nothing new to say. All these matters have also been dealt with in the press. The government is behind this project and different schemes are possible. However, much depends on the European Commission's decision on the extent to which this project is eligible and, in fact, whether it is at all. Then we'll have to keep thinking. But the government is behind this project. However, I think yesterday I heard the scepticism of the Minister for Regional Affairs, and we do not have any certainty that this project will be immediately realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U257	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U258	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about the school food programme and the sums it will cost. Compared to this year, you have not found any extra money for school food in the draft budget for next year. Compared to January this year, food prices have risen by more than 10%. Thus, the same amount of food is no longer available for the same money and it is obvious that additional funding should be provided for the school food programme in order to continue the programme and, in accordance with the Central Party's proposal to extend to kindergartens and upper secondary schools. Maybe your plan is to kill the students free school food program by spending less and less year-on-year funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U259	No, it's not. But I've never been a free school food fan, and I've never hidden it. This is a universal subsidy that not all children need in the same way. By the way, the child eats relatively cheaply at school, and it is no restaurant food compared to home meals. But school should not necessarily have free meals, regardless of the family situation. I do not think that this is part of education; I do not think it is an inevitable social cost, which must continue to grow even in difficult times. Rather, I prefer selective support for families.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U260	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U261	Thank you. Dear Minister, Karlsson from the roof in Astrid Lindgren's popular children's book of the same name once broke an expensive vase in a village near Little Brother. And then he offered her five nights to buy a new one. This literary metaphor indicates that it makes sense to allocate money for something when it is actually possible to get something reasonable for that money, otherwise it is probably a waste of money. We have a different world-view understanding of the need for universal child support. As social democrats, we believe that they are necessary and must also be of reasonable size to help parents and children. You said in reply to Urve Palo that you consider universal child support to be meaningless at all. Here's what I'm gonna ask you. Today, we have EUR 19 and some cents per child and still make up a significant expenditure line in the budget. If these, unlike my personal opinion, are meaningless in the principle, why do you keep about 70 million in that budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U262	I didn't understand your metaphor, to be honest, but when it comes to child support, think about what social groups society is made up of. Those who have children are oppressive in the majority of income earners. And most of those who do not have children are, in fact, state-run pensioners, unemployed and so on. And you say that the strongest group in society, of course, are people of different strengths among them, who also pay taxes, simply have to get those taxes back on the basis of some sort of non-differentiated identifier. There's no efficiency here, there's no improvement in the social situation here. There is no need to give people at work money from their left hand to their right and vice versa, while in the meantime the money is still going to be distributed. In fact, it is stupid support and that is why it has never been a priority in the eyes of politicians. They've been looking for points of pain where more money is needed. One difficult time is certainly when a child is small, another is when he goes to kindergarten, the third is, of course, going to school, further higher education. In the meantime, there's extracurricular activity and stuff. The services are the ones that need to be used to secure the money, but lifting cash from the left to the right is not effective at all. Society must intervene in what it does better than an individual. And individuals who earn cash do not have to share it through society, including through the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, taking from themselves and then giving it back, regardless of how much he needs it. That's the world-viewed difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U263	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U264	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister! I have a question about state fees. Due to the considerable amount of state fees currently in force, access to justice is not sufficiently guaranteed for everyone. The Chancellor of Justice has spoken about this; this conclusion has been reached by the Supreme Court and the Group of the Centre Party has initiated a draft law on the reduction of state fees. According to yesterday's press release, I thought it was supported by government departments. However, if you look at the budget, a number of state fees will not decrease, but on the contrary, the sum of them will increase by around 20%. The question of this: do you not think that reducing rates will result in higher receipts? And is it not the government's intention to reduce them, but to increase them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U265	I do not believe that the reduction will be greater than the reduction. But in this case, it is what the Ministry of Justice and the Minister are talking about: the reduction of court fees should take place on 1 July, but the new types of fees are unfortunately coming up. This is something you have gradually confirmed here in the Riigikogu, and the services that the state offers for the fees are still a long list. The amount of these fees is expected to increase despite the expectation of a reduction in the fees from 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U266	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U267	My view of the world is that I believe that support must not be given to the strongest, but to the weakest. In the case of income support, first of all, there is a 20% increase in the rate that we have recently raised by 20%. Secondly, the number of recipients has increased. But the home expenses you mentioned have certainly increased. Inflation is a fact in this sphere. At different times, the picture is different, for example, depending on energy prices. But the number of recipients has increased. The number of arrivals is one specific thing in this sense that it affects many long-term unemployed people, who have gained a great deal more during the crisis. These people have fallen out of unemployment benefit, live on unemployment benefit and are unable to find a place for themselves. So this is the correct result of multiple components, which we're saying right now. Income support, however, is, yes, unlike child support, targeted support: it depends on the specific social situation, it is only given in the event of a real emergency, not for people like us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U268	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U269	Why doesn't the teachers' pay rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U270	No money! The money's been used elsewhere. The school network is very large. There's a one-and-a-half brake on the reforms. It has often been the Riigikogu, but often also the minister, who has, for example, made it the greatest goal to change the location of the Ministry of Education or its name or to take down school food, but not to improve the way the education system operates for a longer period. It is quite clear that if the number of children decreases, even if the number of children receiving child benefits decreases, the number of students will also decrease. In some regions, the decline is just the right one. If we still teach children in empty spaces and there are few pupils per teacher, then it is unreasonable to hope that society will become ever richer and that teachers' wages will run in front of others' salaries, even though we will not be drawn together. I remind you that both 2007 and 2008 saw a 20% increase in teachers' wages. I also remind you that the minimum wage for teachers during the crisis, if it is still the right term, I may be wrong in this, unlike in other spheres, was not cut. The 2008 level was maintained. The 2011 level is the same as the 2012 level, and it is the same as in 2008. This is a relatively good result in the public sector. In any case, we have taken great note of teachers' salaries, but now is the time when, without structural reforms, there is simply no possibility of wage increases. I'm sure you've heard that answer a thousand times in one word and another.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U271	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U272	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In answer to my previous question, you explained why you think universal child support is pointless. But you did not answer my question as to why such a pointless spending line is included in the budget you presented. For now, however, I would like to move on with the question of Eiki Nestor. Like the Prime Minister yesterday, you said today that teachers' salaries cannot be raised because there are too many schools. There are not many schools in Estonia that have been set up by teachers or that can be decided by teachers. In essence, you say and the Prime Minister also said that the teachers, we cannot raise your salary, because we, the government, have failed to do our job. Don't you think that's a little cynical, not to say worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U273	It's not cynical. Because politics is the art of compromise, as the Auditor General said in chasing the rating. Sometimes he appears as if he too was democratically elected by the people. But it's true that politicians like the audience, and the audience likes schools to come more and more, not less. This year, however, the idea was taken that their salaries would be spent in large investments and operating costs in school buildings, to teachers, I think, more clearly than ever before. It has been a long-standing problem that money has been added to education without any change in substance without increasing efficiency. It has also been a compromise to maintain children's benefits. We have not managed to get society, politicians to agree to choose who needs it and whether it is right to share cash by the number of children. I repeat: I believe that, according to the number of children, services must be shared, not cash. Every child should have a kindergarten place, a decent school place, a teacher with a decent salary, etc. You have to give money that way, but not 300 kroons in the envelope.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U274	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U275	Should the school network be reformed by the Government of the Republic or by the teachers themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U276	I think it's easier for the government to make these decisions if the Sots are there. To the praise of the current Minister for Education, he does not put himself under slogans, but has indeed said to the teachers of this problem: yes, you deserve a higher salary, but this opportunity will come when we have managed our reforms. It hasn't been so clear so far. We are all to some extent guilty of this, but, frankly, in collective decisions, no one is ultimately guilty and the ministers who do not make such reforms are popular. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U277	Please, Mr Borodich, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U278	Thank you. Good minister! I'm coming back to the teachers' salaries. You said there was no money to raise them. I have a proposition for you to consider, I would like to know your opinion. You are saying that universal subsidies must be stopped and switched to needs-based support. If we look at the budget, the biggest social assistance allowance is parental benefit. The budget for next year is set at EUR 170 million. Can we not start a reform here and, for example, reduce the upper limit on parental benefit? I think there would be enough money to finance a 20% increase in teachers' salaries, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U279	If I confess honestly, I don't think the Minister of Social Affairs raised it in the negotiations, but I might be wrong. Actually, you should ask him. I believe, in itself, that this is an area that should be given priority support, which is clearly a need-based support. But as you all speak proudly here, all children must be given equal support, and the amount spent is so large that no more money can be allocated to those in real trouble. These people are in real trouble, and I think that we could make a political agreement, that we should not multiply child benefits by some coefficient, and that we are going to distribute them selectively, depending on the health of the children and, above all, on the income of their families. However, this has not been achieved over long years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U280	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U281	Thank you, Madam President. Honouritet minister! I have a little problem with budgetary transparency. In the section concerning the Ministry of Agriculture of the budget, the allocation to the R &amp; D institutions is set at EUR 1.9 million. This is the money for which the two institutes in the field are kept warm and enlightened and also paid to the janitor. But where there's money on the line for research and development, there's no way to find it. The Minister claims that they are there, but in the explanatory memorandum, there is no reference to it. Can you find that amount here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U282	I believe in the Minister for Agriculture, and I think it is basically right that the Minister of Speciality makes his own choices of this level, not that the Minister of Finance does not write them to him. The Minister of Finance should not have to burden his head with the budget of specific institutions; it does not come out of him; then the bigger picture disappears. In my opinion, it would make sense for the Committee on Rural Affairs to put this question to him in writing. However, if you have already asked, we can specify. However, if he has publicly said that this is the case, I have no doubt about it. What I can tell you here is to squeeze him again, let him point the finger!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U283	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U284	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the energy chapter, the explanatory memorandum on the budget states: the objective of the sector is that Estonia's energy security is guaranteed for consumers with the cheapest possible energy price. We have just heard the Auditor General's report, which called into question Estonia's energy sustainability, or even predicted that Eesti Energia could be expected to fail in the near future in the context of the current investment decisions and the restrictions imposed on us by the European Union. Following the opening of the market in 2013, oil shale electricity will no longer be competitive. And we know that we do not have enough connections to buy electricity from elsewhere in Europe. How is Estonia's energy security reflected in the context of this budget? What has been done in the budget to this end? And I also ask about the end of this explanatory statement: how is the cheapest possible energy price guaranteed for consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U285	This has been reflected, for example, in a capital grant of 150 million to Eesti Energia, so that it can make its investments and look to the future with greater certainty. The attitude of Eesti Energia in making investments is not so much burning oil shale, but increasingly tending towards oil production, which is also an important part of the energy balance. Liquid fuels make up a larger part of the energy balance than electricity itself. So this security can be handled in various ways. As far as electricity is concerned, competitiveness in winter, for example, is also guaranteed for oil shale energy, because Europe does not bathe in surplus energy during peak loads. This is a security issue during peak loads we should have our own capacity. This is the attitude we have taken and taken, among other things, in order not to jeopardise the social situation and employment in north-east Estonia. There are conflicting interests at stake here. One is, of course, the interest of the environment, but there are also social and economic interests why this security is so resolved that, however, oil shale power plants are also being invested.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U286	Please, Mr Lember, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U287	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I would ask more broadly about the whole draft budget law itself, also taking into account the context of the laws to be dealt with with with it. We talk very often about the good practice of lawmaking and the developed country in the public and also in this Chamber, but we have not moved much forward in dealing with laws over the years when trying to eliminate Tallinn's districts following the Gender Equality Act. Today, together with the draft state budget law, we are dealing with draft laws that put together alcohol and the prosecutor's office, unemployment insurance and artificial insemination, etc. Do you consider such cluster billing to be reasonable and good practice in lawmaking to the Riigikogu, or could it rather be called procedural porn?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U288	That's not a word I'd use, that's your judgment. But there are some good and bad things here. When we read today about the dramatic letter from the President of the Riigikogu to the government, I wondered why he did not send it in 2009 or 2010? In fact, the problem already concerned the 2009 budget, so already in 2008 it could have been sent. Indeed, we have been linking up some very risky things about the budget lately. It is a good thing that, in this case, the budget will most likely be legal. There will be no single law to drag, no budget to change because there is a law that has been overlooked. There is also a certain assessment or a certain fear behind it that the Riigikogu will not be able to deal effectively with all the drafts, but such a talk cannot, of course, arise in democracy. I think there is a good aspect to this financially, but the substance of the procedure suffers in some ways. Luckily, we don't put very big laws in a bunch, they're all relatively simple. In the case of the Public Prosecutor's Office, one person's salary, one number for alcohol, 5%, etc. They do not require discussions that interfere with each other. Perhaps the general interest of the budget is so dominant that I accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U289	Please, Mr Mikko, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U290	Thank you. Dear Minister, The Minister of Education recently raised the question of guaranteeing student loans again. To change this system: guarantee less student student loans and put a much greater burden on banks to deal with student debt. How do you rate it for next year's budget? If an amendment to this system is necessary, it would probably not be too easy for the state budget next year to change this system. And do you think that budget costs can actually be saved by a change in the system of guaranteeing student loans that puts more obligations on banks and lowers the number of debtors?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U291	I think so. We also raised this issue in the budget negotiations with Mr Aaviksoo, and I do not think we had any major differences of opinion. He said he'd do it, and I'm sure we'll help him as much as we can. I mean, if it's just that finding the debtors is supposed to bring in the money without excessive costs. And the right thing to do is to involve banks here, to whom it has now been too convenient for a service. I don't think guaranteed interest is quite fair either. Banks' control over people's payback behaviour has been weak, and very many banks are not making any effort. However, the state may have little power, as time has shown.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U292	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The main driver of growth in the Estonian economy this year has been exports, which according to the Ministry of Finance is estimated to grow by 26.1% this year. The planned increase in exports is 4.6% next year. At the same time, we already see signs of the cooling of our main export markets. However, we are planning an increase of almost 5% next year from this year's high growth. It seems to me that we need to reduce our export growth forecasts and be prepared for the resulting impact on both our economy and the state budget. I ask: does the government have a plan B if our economic growth is lower than forecast? What is the budget deficit to be covered for?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U293	I was left with an answer to the question of state fees. I did not say that, in my opinion, you compared the previous forecast, according to which the budget was made, with the next forecast, not with the actual receipts, for this 20%. Often, there are differences in the fact that the actual receipts are greater. But when it comes to exporting very nice, give me your forecasting department's phone number, we'll coordinate our forecasts, even by product group. Perhaps it is on the basis of your data that a budget must be made, I cannot rule out that you know more. However, we see the possibility that exports will increase nominally. Four commas with something a percentage is a small difference. This can also partly be explained by inflation and by the fact that our companies have restructured very heavily during the crisis. And investment has started to grow. I have no complaints to the forecasters, although, as I have already said, I myself would have been more careful when drawing up the budget. There are no grounds for reproach. But if your forecasting department makes that clear to us, we need to see where we cut the budget. Are Social Democrats coming to help? For example, cutting inefficient social benefits or someone's wages? If there's any support from this Riigikogu, I'm in.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U294	Please, Mr Randver, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U295	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to various data, Estonia has about 9% of unreformed land. The state countries have not yet been reformed for nearly 100,000 hectares. This year, EUR 26.5 million will be earned from the sale of state land, and EUR 15 million will be sent to the revenue side of next year. What's the point of going back in these benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U296	It's based on the Earth Administration's specific forecast, and there's two factors. One thing is certainly that more liquid land was sold relatively quickly during the crisis. Another factor is that there is no such crisis that we should sell land very quickly. Rather, to prepare the whole process better and perhaps after a while it will be possible to obtain a higher price. And maybe it's not smart to sell that much in volume. There is no combustible need in financial terms; from some perspective, this process is also part of a land reform that has already achieved some results. It is likely that the Minister for the Environment would respond better, but his views are broadly the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U297	Please, colleague Valeri Korb, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U298	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A week ago, the Auditor General gave an overview of the use of state property in 2010. It is clear from his report that the principles for drawing up the state budget need to be adjusted. My question has to do with this. Are you of the opinion that the state budget drawn up is transparent enough to understand where public money goes? And the other part of the question: what is the dispute between the Ministry of Finance and the Auditor General about the preparation of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U299	I certainly do not think that the state budget must also be presented in the form of a comic book and presented in the form of a theatre performance. It is still a relatively dry document and only in the case of deep interest can be read. But in order for it to be more acceptable in content, more understandable and also reflect the result, there are certain methodological techniques that we are trying to introduce. For example, the origin of statistics is natural, but one thing the Auditor General blames the budget makers is the incomparability of statistical reports and budgets. In fact, it is largely inevitable. The budget is cash-based in almost all countries around the world, while trying to move towards a pattern of origin, which is a characteristic of statistics. There are methodological problems. This is an enormously difficult task. They try to move slowly towards better, but as the experts have explained to me, we will never get to the fact that the budget is entirely accrual-based. However, cash flows are the main determining factor for the financial year. So, at least in part, these mixed budgets will continue to arise in the future, but they are no more mixed budgets than they are now. After all, we share the views of the National Audit Office in the vast majority. The question is that if, by declaring these positions, the state of Estonia is blackened, as did the Ministry of Finance's internal control when criticising the use of euro money, problems begin. Is that what you need? Is this really an adequate picture? Do we understand what it is when everything's just black?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U300	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U301	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Finance! It is good to know that neighbouring countries envy Estonia's success story and that the number of unemployed is decreasing, the number of people employed is increasing and life in Estonia is getting better every day, at least according to the Prime Minister. What, then, explains the need to increase the amount allocated to local authorities for subsistence support? Before reading the explanatory memorandum, I thought that this had been caused by the increase in home expenses, i.e. the amount to be compensated would therefore increase. However, I read in the explanatory memorandum that the increase in costs is related to the increase in the number of applicants. How is it if the unemployed are reduced and there are more people to work? What if there's a misleading mistake? It is certainly right to increase the amount of income support allocated to municipalities, but what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U302	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Finance, for answering the questions. Next, I call on my colleague, Mr Sester, from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to present the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U303	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the issues relating to the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2012, which have been through the Commission. I start by actually starting the budget debate in the Riigikogu already during the spring session, not now in the autumn. In fact, during the spring session, the Committee on Monetary Affairs considered it necessary to discuss an overview of the state's monetary policy, based on financial policy documents approved by the government, as an important national issue in the Riigikogu's plenary. Among them were the State Budget Strategy 2012 just to 2015, the Stability Programme, the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic 2011 to 2015 and the Competitiveness Plan "Estonia 2020." During the spring session, the Minister of Finance gave us an overview of the state budget strategy 2012 Once again on the budgetary strategy, I would like to mention here that the budgetary strategy sets out the policy principles for planning the budget for the next four years, the priorities of the Government of the Republic, the analysis of the economic situation and the forecast for economic development. The budget strategy will be drawn up on the basis of periodic renewal: every spring the current state budget strategy will be updated, specifying the plans for the next three years and setting the plans for the fourth year. When we come to a specific budget for 2012, for the first time, its principles were presented to us by the Commission on 11 October. This was done by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, and he was attended by Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry Ivar Sikk and Head of the State Budget Department Kaie Koskaru. The Minister of Finance has already mentioned the priorities of next year's budget and the biggest increases by sector in answering quite a number of questions in this Chamber. He also addressed the main items of expenditure in the Commission and answered the questions raised by the Members of the Commission. In previous meetings, the Ministry of Finance had already provided the Commission with the summer 2011 economic forecast as a background for the budgetary procedure. The Committee on Finance also decided separately that, during the state budget procedure, it would invite ministers from different sectors to attend its meetings to give a more detailed overview of their problems, potential investments and costs. I would add so much that by the beginning of November we had planned a meeting of the Commission at Eesti Pank to listen to Eesti Pank's assessment of the state budget and economic policy. I will now be quick to simply mark, over the questions and issues that went through on 11 October when we discussed the state budget. One of the issues raised was the Equalisation Fund for Local Authorities. They wanted to know how big it was and how it would be in 2012. The answer was that it will remain the same as this year. It amounts to EUR 72.3 million. Interested in the motivations for changes in the budget of the Ministry of Finance, Riigikogu and several other institutions. Specifically, the increase in the cost of the Ministry of Finance is mainly influenced by the state's mandatory pension fund entries and the increase in the volume of payments made by Estonia to the general budget of the European Union. One member of the Commission expressed an interest in the allocations of national funeral allowances to whom this money specifically goes. The answer was that it would go to the local authorities. The Commission was also talking about the economic forecast that was up here today as a topic in this Chamber. The Government of the Republic is based on a 3% growth forecast. There was a debate on whether to be more conservative and base the risk scenario (increase of 1% or even no growth). The Minister of Finance considered that we are looking at the baseline scenario, so far we have no reason to introduce other scenarios. Today he has confirmed it several times from this remote control to answer people. Interest was expressed in the possible receipt of public pension insurance costs and social tax. What's the difference? I will say right now that the social tax is indeed lower. If you look at social tax receipts and various costs, the difference is EUR 354 million. There was also a question about the sale of emission quotas and where a list of CO2 items could be found. Where can I get an overview of this? How are things going in this area? For everyone's information, this information is entirely available on the website of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. It lists the objects for which this money is allocated, the speed at which the work is completed and other information concerning the subject matter. There was also interest in loans and debt: how does the state view possible borrowings in the coming years, and what does it see as its debt burden? The subject was also mentioned in this Chamber today. The answer was that the state budget strategy envisages not taking new loans at central government level and, rather, reducing the debt burden by 2012. This reduction is possible due to the State Treasury's liquidity reserve at central government level. Separately, there were reserves of unemployment and sickness funds, which have also been discussed in this Chamber today. Various opinions were expressed on this, and the Minister has already given longer answers to the questions on this point today. In the same way as in today's Chamber, the Commission was asked about a possible European Stability Mechanism (ESM) payment: is there any means and how it is planned to do so? In the Commission, the Minister said that this would be a financing transaction over a period of five years. And if I am not mistaken, he also mentioned that EUR 30 million should be earmarked for this in the budget as soon as the need arises next year. In addition to information, there have already been meetings with some ministers. As I mentioned, we are of the opinion that, if possible, we should meet with all the ministers separately. Now, to sum up who we've met, on October 17, we got an overview of the government of the Ministry of Education and Research. Chancellor Janar Holm also attended, and it was surprising that the pay of teachers was not the subject, as I later saw when I looked at the memo. Basically, it was about reducing the number of students. On 18 October, a day later, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur told us about the government of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The questions mainly concerned the resources of the unemployment fund, for example how much is allocated to active labour market measures. The answer was that the level was the same as in 2011: EUR 35 million. The Minister also gave an overview of the launch of a pilot project for a replacement family doctor system of EUR 238000, and the instruments available from different sources are both external funds and public funds • investments in care hospitals, orphanages, special care homes. He also spoke at the committee about a one-time start-up grant for young doctors who are working outside Tallinn and Tartu. On 24 October, we had a visit with regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler, who spoke about his administration. Several issues have been raised here today in this area. They asked about the construction of the Estonian National Museum. As the Minister of Finance said today, it is not yet definitively clear at what pace and how we will proceed. The Minister of Regional Affairs commended local authorities for the successful use of euro money. According to him, local authorities have done a very good job. There was an interest in regional subsidies, how they will be in 2012. The Minister explained that the same volume would be continued for the purposes of the settlement programme, the Setu programme, etc. The question was asked about specifying the tasks of local governments, which the Supreme Court and the President of the Republic have also drawn attention to. What are the tasks of the state and what are the tasks of the local government? How have commitments been delegated and how does funding work? The Minister gave a general overview of this. This work has been done, the ministries have selected activities that are of national importance, and these are specifically mentioned in the budget. The Minister also mentioned that a new guide to the tasks of local authorities is currently being drawn up, which should soon come up. On 25 October Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, came to visit the Commission. I shall also briefly mark the issues he has addressed. He pointed out that the priorities of the Ministry were to improve access to first-level legal aid, to increase state legal aid instruments and to speed up all judicial proceedings. The issue of state fees also came up in the Commission, and they are too big. The Minister confirmed that in the near future, more precisely in November, a draft will arrive at the Riigikogu with the aim of reducing state fees related to legal proceedings. According to the latest information, this decrease should be up to 26%. The Minister also mentioned that money would be allocated to shorten the order of DNA analysis. In Estonia, the technological level of forensic analysis is very high and funding in this area is increased. We were also talking about the transfer of the Court Accounting Centre to the Ministry of Finance for the development of the State Support Centre. This was an overview of what the ministers who went to the Commission have said. Those who have not been dating, we hope most likely to meet between the first and second readings, and why not also between the second and third readings. The Commission took the following decisions: Firstly, the Commission decided by consensus to propose a draft on 26 October, which is today. Opinions were slightly divided on the completion of the first reading of the draft: 6 votes to 4, with 0 abstentions. In summary, the Commission supported the completion of the first reading and decided to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 p.m. on 3 November. This decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U304	Oh, it's so easy for you! The numbers are all figures, except they are very different. This savings would not provide any opportunity to interfere with teachers' salaries. But in order for you to understand what has happened, I will mention the size of the teachers' salary compared to the national average. It was 69.8% in 2006 and 86.2% in 2010. This is a very decent increase, and teachers have been highly favoured on the issue of pay. I can't be responsible for the pay numbers of teachers who don't have a full load. This is a fact, but there is also a hint: in order for a teacher to have a full load, a reform must be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U305	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U306	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, The Estonian state currently has 64 valid national strategies, development plans, programmes approved by the Riigikogu or government. Have they been taken into account in the preparation of the state budget? However, there is no reference to these documents in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U307	We have consciously avoided such financial obligations in relation to development plans, including by being with your party in the coalition. However, the assumption is that development plans are direction indicators and not specific financial commitments. In some respects, however, development plans are naturally taken into account in the preparation of the budget: the budget is based on the same attitudes as the development plans are drawn up on the basis of. But I don't approve of the systems of development plans. Right now, we're planning something. Let's see how we can create some kind of system in this area. But these experiments have been before, so I can't make any promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U308	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U309	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I still have no peace in your realm, nor does peace give any money. In 2010, in the case of alcohol and tobacco, the Conjuncture Institute spoke of EUR 73.2 million that has been missed due to smuggling. In figures, the share of the secret market in Estonia is almost twice as high as in Finland. We are talking a lot about increasing efficiency right now. How do you think you can increase efficiency in your area of government in order to get even some of this money? You can't have everything anyway, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U310	Thank you. It's not just alcohol that makes us more effective. We will focus on areas where tax losses are greatest. The data on the secret market are very different. I don't know which source you're referring to right now, but I've checked that these percentages may vary two or more times depending on the analyst. That's one secret thing, this secret market. And when it comes to efficiency, when it comes to fighting the secret market, you have to make choices where there are the greatest risks. Alcohol, tobacco, fuel, or envelope wages? If you're selling bootlegged vodka, it's probably less profitable to hunt than a lot of merchandise. But the most likely risk is the sale of fuel. This is what I told you about in general when I introduced the ideology of the tax administration. But, of course, there is also a secret market for alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U311	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U312	Dear Ene Ergma! Dear Jürgen Ligi! The cost of the office of the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner is ridiculously low, with a total of less than 1 million in old money. This is particularly drastic in a situation where we are relatively at the forefront, if not the first, of our pay gap and other indicators of gender discrimination in Europe. However, the Commissioner is unable to achieve the objectives that have been set for him, because he has also been given six additional areas of discrimination, and the money has not been given. The same applies to the Department for Gender Equality. This problem, by the way, has also been repeatedly brought to the attention of international organisations. What are you doing personally, Minister of Finance, so that the situation changes and the important department of the Commissioner and the Ministry of Social Affairs can reduce the gender pay gap as your minister of finance, which embarrasses Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U313	I try not to discriminate against the ladies, to employ them more than men and to pay them equal pay for equal work. What else can I say? It is still a question for the Minister of Social Affairs. And the question is also whether the work of the Gender Equality Commissioner is, in his opinion, worth more money, whether this area really needs more money. But yes, it is still a question for him. I don't understand much about the business of this official, I'm sorry. I don't know what he's doing. But all of us who run the country in one way or another have, of course, a duty to ensure that there is no discrimination.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U314	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U315	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of Finance! I didn't want to ask you any more questions, but I still need to clarify or find out one thing. You said that the need for extra money was also due to a 20% increase in the income support rate. In fact, this started in 2011 and, in comparison to 2011 and 2012, this figure has increased as a result of the increase in the number of income support applicants. But I'm gonna ask you another question, because otherwise the right to do so will be wasted. The costs of rehabilitation for people with special needs, including children, have been at the same level for three years. For 2012, the amount planned is exactly the same as this year, but already this money is not enough. At the same time, it is stated in the explaining section of the monthly allowance for disabled people that the number of children with disabilities is increasing. Is there no danger that this money will still be very little? Was there an increase in the amount of rehabilitation that was even under consideration?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U316	Please, Mr Indrek Saar, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U317	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will return to the energy target. The explanatory memorandum states that Estonia's energy security is guaranteed with the cheapest possible energy price for consumers and also with the lowest possible impact on the Estonian environment. In the previous answer to me, you said that oil shale electricity is starting to shrink, and indeed maybe this is not the most sensible thing to do. At the same time, we know that in the role of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Energia and therefore the Management Board have been instructed to build two new oil shales. At the same time, in addition to the 156 million shown in the budget, we have the risk that the money from the sale of the CO2 quota will not be allowed to be used for the construction of these boilers, that it can be interpreted as State aid. And the minister has also confirmed that this money will be found in any case. As Minister of Finance, can you tell me where the money will be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U318	Thank you very much. I come back to the gender equality and yawning pay gap. I have this question for you, Minister: can I have confirmation today, when you stand before us, that you, with your great pan-European authority, will oblige the Minister for Social Affairs, who is a little less experienced, to allocate more money to the Gender Equality Department and the Commissioner? I'd really like to hear you're doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U319	I mean, what kind of money? One boiler is now being spoken of, the other may be a separate decision. It's not done for now. When we considered these various components, these partly conflicting interests, environmental, security, economic, social, we decided: yes, we will make more one boiler. We probably need to burn oil shale for a long time at peak load, which will guarantee our security. But we don't want to mine 30 million tons a year, like I've ever tried or even extracted, I don't exactly remember the statistics. Plans have been withdrawn and some optimal result has been obtained by summing up various considerations. At the moment, one kettle is considered necessary. The second decision will be decided separately, and this decision will really depend much on what is decided on CO2 quota policy in Europe. In any case, our security is quite strongly affected; the importance of this decision cannot be underestimated. But we're trying to minimize our damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U320	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U321	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! My question concerns the revenue side of the budget. In 2009, resource taxes were increased by an additional budget proposed by the government. Fuel prices have risen very fast. Has the Ministry or government not discussed the proposal to raise oil shale's resource tax, for example, and thus gain income in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U322	What we've been discussing is an oil tax, but we haven't gotten very far with it. It's something that seems fair from a number of places. It is based on the benefits of the energy sector and allows both private and public sectors to be taxed a little fairer in terms of resource use and society as a whole. At the same time, it doesn't have its own problems. Acquiring to tax an energy resource, we are still taxing a consumer who has economic and certainly will also have social effects in the future. In Narva, heat energy is delivered cheaply, but across Estonia, the costs of heat and, of course, electricity are very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U323	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U324	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We all understand that all the tensions that exist in society regarding the budget could be solved very easily if we were able to significantly increase our revenue base. But this, as we know, is not an easy task. My question is this: if you put together a budget in the government office, will you try to analyse the problem of the shadow economy and the proportion of taxes that are lost because of it, or has that not been the issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U325	Of course it's still being analyzed. I have no universal number to offer you. There are different aspects to the game. One of the figures mentioned this year in this Chamber is the money that was locked up in the VAT fraud of fuel sales was well over 700 million Estonian kroons. Now we have made a legislative amendment, and it is a few months in existence, if I am not mistaken, the third month is going on, and it seems that we even underestimated this part of the shadow economy, one might say, the criminal economy. What are we doing here? We have allocated additional resources, for example, to the discovery of property acquired for criminal profit and the confiscation of such property. These steps are very different. However, we have not agreed even on this shadow economy, i.e. on excise goods, how much this proportion is estimated to be well different. We're looking for data here and there. Still want to destroy the shadow economy and get the tax out of it. I'd love to!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U326	Please, colleague Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U327	The increase in internal efficiency allows teachers to look forward to an increase in wages. Expenditure in the field of health accounts for 12.9% of total expenditure and is planned for €885.7 million in 2012. Compared to 2011, costs increase by EUR 56.7 million. Growth is due to an increase in the cost of public health insurance. The revenue from the sale of CO2 quota will be used to develop the hospital network, including Viljandi and Pärnu hospitals. I would like to highlight the fact that the additional increase in maintenance costs for state roads next year will be EUR 10.3 million. It makes life better everywhere in Estonia. When we read the budget, we can confirm that Estonia is a country that is already 20 years old and has seen something in this world. We can develop and preserve our country. We can make longer plans and implement them. We care about our elderly. Finally, I would like once again to take an extract from what appeared in the foreign press: in the midst of the crisis of the peoples of the European Union, Estonians with little debt, a calm attitude towards strict measures and enthusiasm for the future of Europe are an example for all. However, our emotions need not only be fed by outward recognition, but by making the necessary decisions that we consider useful and useful for Estonia. So we are meaningful in our budget discussions, we are thinking about the future of the country and the people, and we are acting in a statesmanly manner! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U328	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. You have questions too. Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U329	Thank you very much, Mr Tamkivi. As all the political groups have been able to do so, I will conclude the negotiations and set the deadline for the submission of 99 amendments in s. a 3 November at 6 p.m. First reading of bill 99 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U330	Thank you. Good waitress! I don't know if you heard my question to the Minister of Finance. I asked about the fact that next year the R &amp; D expenditure will be nearly twice as low as our state budget strategy envisages. These are 0.95% of GDP, although the state budget strategy envisages 1.8%. The Minister of Finance said that he does not consider these expenses to be generally effective. Do you agree with the Minister of Finance and, if so, why are these great figures written in the state budget strategy and in the 'Estonia 2020' programme you referred to?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U331	You're asking for my personal opinion. I have not only a personal opinion on this subject, but on a number of other issues, but we could leave time to present personal opinions when we have a round of negotiations. Unfortunately, the round of negotiations for the members of the Riigikogu opens not at first reading, but only at second reading, so we can explain our personal opinions. But in order not to dodge the answer, I would honestly say that there was no discussion in the Commission on this matter. But I will think about it, and I will also give you the answer that I personally feel about it in the near future. You'll get it once I've looked at these numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U332	Please, Mr Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U333	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good speaker! I read on page 93 of the explanatory memorandum, which sets out the staff costs of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, that the costs are to be allocated to six political groups, 11 to standing committees and five to special committees and committees of inquiry. Did you speak in committee about these six political groups and five special committees of inquiry?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U334	I must say that we did not set the flashlight on the Commission, and the light we had did not allow this mistake to be detected. I guess there's been a mistake of some earlier documents transferred. As the Minister said in his speech, there may be minor errors in the draft, they are unacceptable, but the maker still happens. Thank you for pointing that out. We can change the explanatory statement with the amendments if we really want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U335	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, as representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, Mr Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U336	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's state budget speech, I'd like to start with a little backwards for yesterday. The demonstration of yesterday's teachers clearly shows where the current government has taken Estonia with its ultraliberal tax policy. What country is it where your people can't be paid a decent salary? What is this land that doesn't cover and feed its people? What land is this, where the wealth gap in society grows? This is what Estonia is like today. The government has lost classical corporate tax in Estonia and consistently reduced the rate of personal income tax. And even after the economic crisis, the government has not realised that this is the way Estonia cannot finance its country. The Law amending the Income Tax Act was adopted with the votes of the Government Coalition, which will reduce the income tax rate to 20% by 2015. Against this background, it is really embarrassing to hear that there is not enough money for teachers to raise their salaries. At the same time, indirect taxes have been increased, which are regressive in relation to people's incomes. This means that poorer households pay a relatively larger share of their income in the form of these taxes. According to CIA World Factbook, the population of Estonia is 38000 people smaller than Estonia's own official data. The final truth will be revealed next year when the people living in Estonia are counted on the census. However, it is clear that the people of Estonia go abroad to work and go not only to the unskilled but also to various specialists. When people leave, there will be fewer taxes in the state budget because fewer taxpayers are left, and therefore it will not be possible to pay decent pensions or wages to the public sector in the future. It's such a diabolical tour. For several years now, we must listen to the coalition ambassadors in this Chamber of the Riigikogu when the good state budget has been brought before the Riigikogu again. Well, who's gonna raise the dog's tail if it's not the dog himself? But this good is expressed by figures such that in 2012 the budget deficit will be only 2.1% of GDP. If we wanted to play with numbers again, we could have a structural fiscal position of +0.2% of GDP. What a joy and a flower party! But how is all this reflected in the well-being of the Estonian people, the well-being of their teachers, police officers, rescuers and medical staff? The 2012 Explanatory Memorandum of the State Budget states strongly that real growth in average wages is forecast to be 2.2% in the coming year. But it has been forgotten that the salaries of teachers, police officers, rescuers and nurses have also been frozen next year, in a situation where prices continue to rise. Compared to the beginning of last year, food prices have increased by 15.3% and housing costs by 12.8%. But to these important officials, we will tell you to suffer another 12 months of loss of purchasing power. After all, this means that teachers' salaries have fallen for 30 months and, unfortunately, if this government continues, they will probably continue to decrease. The Centre Party Group has a clear vision of how to increase the well-being of people in Estonia. Much has been said about Estonia's movement towards smart outsourcing. This requires a skilled workforce, as well as a learning pattern that the child receives from the school. School and teachers are the foundation of the whole country. We can build any building with thick walls, but it won't last long without the foundation. A 20% increase in teachers' salaries is inevitable next year and cannot be postponed. Teachers must have the opportunity to devote themselves to the teaching profession, and teachers do not live only by air and love. A situation where a teacher has to work with more than one load at a time to make ends meet is not normal. The teachers themselves said yesterday that they had been patient. But if money is found on an easy hand to help the sovereigns who had borrowed themselves, but no money is found for their teachers, then their patience was lost as well. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U337	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U338	As inescapable as listening to teachers' wage increases is today the restoration of the local government's share of income tax. When, in 2009, the share of income tax received by local authorities was reduced from 11,93% to 11,4%, this was referred to as a temporary measure. Now, however, the government does not want to hear any more about the abolition of this temporary measure. However, the underfunding of local authorities is felt in every way. As a result, the capacity of cities and rural municipalities to invest in kindergartens and schools has been reduced, saved from street lighting and this list could be continued. Absurd is a situation where the local government has been given tasks, but does not provide money to carry them out. This situation is also condemned by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court's decision of 16 March 2010 declaring it unconstitutional that no acts should be given which would lay down the self-governing and state obligations imposed on local government entities and distinguish between money intended to organise local life issues and to carry out state duties. The third important position is free school food for us. According to the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, a free school lunch was insured as of 1 September 2002 at the time the Centre Party was in government. Class 1 students. From 1 January 2006, free school lunch was extended to all comprehensive school pupils until the end of the ninth grade. We believe that free school meals must also be provided by upper secondary school students and why not by kindergarten children. For many children, a school lunch is the only hot meal a day, and the cook aunts must make it for only 78 euro cents. Money for school lunch has not been found, although food prices have been faster in the euro area. There is certainly a need to increase the cost of school lunch, and our proposal is to bring it to one euro. Children are our future and can't be saved! If Estonian families are in a difficult situation, there is not much savings yet. As I mentioned at the beginning of the speech, today's government coalition has thinned our country. However, the money for the changes outlined above exists in Estonia, and it cannot be said that the defence forces are opposed to teachers or rural schools. The Estonian state must take care of its tax base. And if the government coalition still loves to set Europe as an example on one issue or another, the fact that most of the old Europe uses graduated income tax is skilfully denied. I hope that the state budget will be dealt with constructively in this Chamber. We can talk about a small budget deficit, but above all, we need to talk about how the budget for the coming year will affect the people of Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U339	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Please, Mr Mikser, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U340	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, the Social Democratic Party is not satisfied with the draft budget submitted to us for a number of reasons. The government has based its growth on 3% and brought forward a draft budget with a deficit of 2.1%. The Minister told us that he was rather concerned about looking at these figures and that he personally would have been more conservative in the projections. At the same time, the Minister confirmed before us that the causes of the deficit are one-off in terms of revenue. The Social Democratic Party draws attention to the fact that, in fact, the deficit figure of 2.1% has also been achieved in an abnormal way, compensating the deficit of the state budget, essentially at the expense of the unemployment fund's reserve. Nor can we approve of the government's decision to take the right of the health insurance fund and the unemployment fund against their own will to decide on the use of their reserves. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the cost side of this budget, the biggest disadvantage is certainly the incorrect priorities of the government. We only saw yesterday a thousand and a half teachers protesting in a fair wage claim right here in the castle square. However, we do not see that the government has taken their expectations seriously. On the contrary, the Prime Minister confirmed yesterday in the government briefing that teachers can expect a wage increase only after the school network has been resolutely narrowed down once the state reform has been carried out. Thus, the government has decided to punish teachers, who are undoubtedly one of the creators of the greatest added value in our society, for failing the government itself, because state reform does not do and the school network is not optimized by teachers; it can still be done by the government. The government is responsible for failing to reform the school, and ignoring the teachers' legitimate demands under this pretext is cynical. Basically, as the Prime Minister says today, as the Minister of Finance: teachers, you cannot expect a wage increase until we have done our job, we have not done it so far and, as far as the reform of the state is concerned, we are not going to do it. The strong desire of the Socialists is to raise the salaries of teachers as early as next year, and we are convinced that this is also possible if there is good will. Another important disadvantage for the Socialists on the expenditure side of the draft budget that we have been presented is child subsidies. For years, the only growing type of family benefit in Estonia has been the parental benefit paid to high-paid parents. Today, the upper limit for parental benefit is already over EUR 2 000, while the child benefit paid to each child until his 19th birthday has lasted for ten years with a ridiculous 300 kroons, i.e. 19 euros and a few cents. In our opinion, the maximum amount of child benefit of less than EUR 20 and parental benefit of more than EUR 2 000 is a disgrace to the Estonian government. The Social Democrats propose that this screaming mismatch be reduced and child support tripled. We are pleased that our draft in this regard has passed through first reading, and we hope that the ruling coalition will be so constructive in further proceedings that we will be able to achieve an increase in child support within the starting financial year. Thirdly, it is certainly important that Estonia acts as a rule of law. President Ilves has also pointed out the constitutional problem of defining the functions of the state and local governments and ensuring the revenue needed to fulfil them in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The Social Democratic Party considers that the state already has the obligation next year to compensate for the injustice that was created by placing an extra burden on the municipalities during the crisis, reducing their income base. The Social Democrats want to increase the percentage of personal income tax received by local governments in the state budget for next year, as well as the Equalisation Fund. I would like to say, as one side comment, that the country is actually planning to spend a relatively extravagant amount next year. We certainly cannot be satisfied with the government's step in increasing the share capital of Eesti Energia, as well as with several other questionable content and costly decisions in the field of energy policy. Although this financial transaction does not directly concern the revenue and expenditure figures of the state budget for the coming year, it illustrates the priorities of the government, since the amount of the increase in share capital is close to the amount spent on the salaries of educators during the year. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U341	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U342	Another area where the planned increase in expenditure must be considered to be a little extravagant in our circumstances today is defence. The Social Democratic Party fully supports the objective of bringing Estonia's defence costs to 2% of GDP. We believe that Estonia must reach this important line at least by the time our budget reaches a balance or surplus. To increase defence costs exponentially at a time when our national budget is even optimisticly in deficit of 2.1%, it is probably not reasonable. The Social Democrats are proposing to increase defence costs in the budget for the coming year, both in absolute terms and as a percentage of domestic production, but our proposal is to do so at a more moderate rate than the increase of 21,78% proposed by the government. The Social Democrats consider that despite the revenue side of the state budget, it is not possible to meet all the obligations facing the state. Our proposal is to charge an additional 26% of this income, which exceeds EUR 1000 per month. This brings considerable additional revenue to the budget and also creates greater social justice. We also propose to increase the personal income tax rate by 1 percentage point to 22% and we support the proposal to reduce unemployment insurance contributions by a total of 1.2 percentage points, i.e. to 3%. We are counting on the constructive processing of the budget, cooperation between the coalition and the opposition to improve the lives of our people, the people of Estonia. The Chancellor of Justice has said that if the Riigikogu gives a heavy end to the budgetary process of the government, i.e. the executive power, this is a constitutional problem. The Minister of Finance has just said in front of us that the Auditor General here sometimes behaves as if he were directly elected by the people. I would point out that the members of the government, the ministers, are not directly elected by the people, we are members of the Riigikogu, and that is why we must certainly give the government instructions on how to use the state's purse, not blindly obey the government's orders in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U343	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Mikser. Please, as a representative of the Group of the Urmas Reinsalu Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U344	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, What have we learned from the economic crisis? Firstly, that the budget must be planned conservatively. The current 3% growth in the draft budget is the conservativeest economic forecast available to us. Secondly, the state must not go down the path of extremely rapid growth in fixed costs, which is not behind the growth of the real economy. Thirdly, the debt crisis in Europe taught a clear lesson that it is in the interests of both the public sector and society as a whole to respect the principles of budgetary balance. In 2012, Estonia's debt ratio remains the lowest in the European Union, accounting for 5.8% of GDP, the coalition will achieve a balance of government in the year after, and we consider it appropriate to lay down the requirement for the balance of the state budget in the Estonian legal order. The talk about the meltdown of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund into the state budget is misleading. This is taxpayers' money, the use of which remains the same. It is therefore in the budgetary round that it takes into account the recent lessons of the global economy. As a basic choice, the government coalition does not foresee a general increase in the state's operating costs next year and the investments of public authorities are also frozen. However, this budget is not a budget for cost-cutting, but a budget for growth. Growth is a prerequisite for not raising the tax burden, which will remain at 32.4% of gross domestic product next year. Our aim is to reduce the tax burden to 31.7% by 2015. Secondly, public investment will increase by 28% to EUR 1.25 billion. The largest part of the investment is planned for the repair of state roads. Support for entrepreneurship in rural areas is essential. Next year, we will support Estonian farmers from the state budget through an increase in the volume of additional direct payments of 10%. Support for agricultural, rural and fisheries development will increase by EUR 47.1 million. Thirdly, active labour market measures. Active labour market measures are planned to be the highest ever amount, EUR 37.6 million, with the priority being to reduce long-term unemployment. Fourthly, business grants. Next year, red tape will be cut in the application for business support, and priority will be given to start-up, product development and export refunds. The second dimension of this budget is social protection, for which we will take the next steps. Firstly, an increase of 8.5% in the volume of public health insurance, or EUR 70 million. This will improve the availability of family medical services, the situation of service providers, or hospitals, and also extend the list of medical services to which more than 30 new diagnoses will be added. In the same way as a young teacher's starting allowance, we also introduce a starting allowance for young doctors. Second, coping with the elderly generation. In the following year, pensions will rise 4.4% and will fully recover the second pillar payments. The third social dimension is care. With next year's budget money, the reorganisation of replacement homes will continue and the construction of family houses will instead continue for children without parental care. We will also continue the home support programme for families with child-rich families, which has already received support from over 1,200 families with over 7,000 children. Over the next year, a report by the Ministry of Social Affairs on changing the general family benefit system so that children can receive more support under more restrictive circumstances will be produced. The third dimension of this budget is the protection of regional balance in a country. We will increase the local road maintenance money by 5 million euros. Next year, new ships will be acquired in the smaller islands, the development of a new generation of electronic communications networks will ensure high-speed internet access for more than 40000 rural people and more than €90 million will be allocated to water projects next year. The fourth dimension is promoting the development of Estonia. State expenditure on research and education represents 1% of our gross domestic product in next year's budget. Education expenditure is increasing by EUR 65 million, or 12%. Next year, more than half a hundred schools and student homes will be renovated. In 2012, the IT Academy will be launched with the support of a budget allocation to ensure competitive ICT education. The volume of public university training orders will increase, which will also become more effective operating support once the higher education reform enters into force. It is a fact that in 2007 and 2008 we were able to raise the teachers' minimum wage by nearly a fifth, swimming against the trend of the general economic downturn. The Minister of Education has drawn up a draft joint declaration to enhance the teacher's work. It clearly states our objective: the full-time teacher's salary must be 20% higher than the national average. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to make more effective use of the education money that the Ministry wants to do together with the parties involved in the declaration project, and in order to improve the financial opportunities, additional resources will be added to the salaries of teachers, the precondition for which is sustainable economic growth. Otherwise, in order to ensure fixed public expenditure, the debt burden should be increased, which would be completely irresponsible for monetary policy. But all efforts would be meaningless if the national security of Estonia was not guaranteed. Therefore, the clear choice of the IRL and Reform Party to ensure national defence next year is 2% of our gross domestic product. This money will be used to improve the equipment, training and living conditions of Estonian soldiers and defence allies. Let us remember that only three years ago, our neighbouring country went against its neighbouring country with tanks. Today, we know that Russia, the same neighbouring country, is planning its defence costs at 3% of GDP. This budget corresponds to Estonia's opportunities, promotes economic growth and ensures the livelihood of those in need. With this budget, we encourage education and development and give a clear and unambiguous message: we value the protection of Estonia. Let's get this straight. The 2012 budget has been drawn up in the knowledge that the national interests of Estonia are protected; this budget can be assured; it is indeed a sure victory for the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U345	Thank you very much, Urmas Reinsalu. I would like to ask Mr Tamkivi, my colleague in the speech chair, as a representative of the Group of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U346	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The 2012 budget, which we are reading for the first time in this Chamber today, is the most important work of this Parliament so far. Indeed, of all the decisions and debates that have been discussed in this Chamber by people who have received a mandate in the spring, this is the most important thing. I therefore have a suggestion: let us behave with dignity and constructiveness when discussing the country's most important law, feeling our responsibility. This is a law that will directly affect the everyday life of all Estonian people next year. On behalf of the Group of Representatives of the Reform Party, who will finally give a third of the votes of the Riigikogu in support of this budget, I would like to say that this budget will keep Estonia from the winds of attraction that have been on the news in recent months about the global economy. Of course, our requests and our efforts have been noted elsewhere. After all, we read with little pride how Germany's big newspapers write that Estonia is an oasis in Europe, where people live in a digital republic with a friendly business environment and transparent governance. A month ago, we discussed in this very Chamber whether and how Estonia should support the European Union Financial Stability Fund and what it will cost us. As a follow-up to this debate, it is quite worth recalling that the total volume of external grants in the state budget for the coming year will increase by 26.1% compared to this year. However, the increase will be 3.5% without taking into account the funds for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. From external resources, according to the 2012 draft state budget, approximately EUR 1.25 billion is planned to be covered, i.e. 18.8% of the total cost of the non-consolidated state budget, as shown in the explanatory memorandum to the state budget. The share of external resources in the financing of state budget expenditure has increased from year to year. This year the corresponding figure was EUR 995 million and in 2010 EUR 928 million. Morality: by supporting the Financial Stability Fund, we help others, but we recognise that if Europe is stable, it will also help us. The 2012 budget is a forward-looking budget for stability and employment. Ensuring Estonia's competitiveness, i.e. channeling more money into the economy, state security, education and social protection, remains a priority of the budget. The country will continue to revitalise the economy by increasing the volume of investment, which will also increase employment. Compared to last year, public investment will increase by 28%, to EUR 1.25 billion. The vast majority of the growth is made up of funds obtained from the sale of an emission quota, which also heats public buildings, for example. This activity will allow significant future savings on heating costs. In addition to the cost of pension pillar II, public pensions will grow again next year. From 1 April of the coming year, pensions will increase by 4.4%, with an additional EUR 72 million in pension payments. In order to preserve and improve the Estonian environment, the state will invest over 400 million euros next year. Investments will continue next year and by the end of 2013, many small settlements will have quality drinking water and the opportunity to join the modern sanitation system. The increase in public budget expenditure compared to 2011 is 11.3%. The source of the increase in the overall cost volume is the cost of excess allowances sales income and euro payments. Pension payments will increase, as I said, by 72 million euros. Education will receive EUR 778.5 million from the 2012 state budget, representing 11.8% of the total budget expenditure. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U347	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U348	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit, artificial insemination and embryo protection law, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Prosecutor's Office Act. For a presentation, please, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U349	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! With regard to the 2012 state budget, the government is proposing several legislative changes. As the only tax change, we propose an increase in alcohol duty of 5%. This is a relatively small tax increase that is acceptable to trade, which is not particularly noticed by the consumer and which does not have a significant impact on the secret market. The additional revenue planned from the increase in alcohol duty next year will be EUR 10 million. In addition to the budgetary reason, the purpose of raising excise duties on alcohol is, of course, always to limit the consumption of alcohol as a health hazard. The increase in the standard of living has increased the availability of alcohol. The situation is that average income has increased fourfold between 1996 and 2011, while alcohol duty has only doubled over that period. The 5% increase in excise duty does not mean an increase of 5% in the price of products, such as the price of alcohol with 1 litre ethanol and 40 degrees ethanol, an increase of around 3%, the price of 0.7 litre wine, and the price of beer is not currently changing. In the case of local authorities, the increase in the net debt ceiling from 60% to 100% is postponed by one year, which was still planned for the part of the municipalities. This will not worsen the situation of local governments so far, but will reduce the pressure on the government deficit. As an impact of the change, the expected overall deficit of the municipal budget for 2012 will be reduced by 18 million euros. In an uncertain economic environment, it is not reasonable to allow the debt burden of municipalities to be exponentially increased. In the event of less well-designed income, difficulties arise both in complying with the threshold and in servicing debts. The aim of amending the ART and Embryo Protection Act is to achieve more effective use of ART health care benefits and related health care services. To this end, the funding of treatments with very little hope of success will be reduced, the reimbursement will be directed towards the treatment of patients with more and better estimates, and this will also shorten treatment queues. The purpose of the amendment of the Law on Public Prosecutors is to equalise the salary rate of the state's attorney general with the salary coefficient of the Supreme Court judge, which is 0,85. In addition, the amendment ensures that the principle that the remuneration of prosecutors is based on the principles of determining the remuneration of judges is maintained. The change in wage regulation does not lead to an obligation to raise wages in the same way as that of judges, but sets the objective of wage policy. The proposal to consolidate the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund has been financially more important, but also has caused much unnecessary emotion. The autonomy of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund in the tasks imposed on them by law remains guaranteed. The change will benefit both the sickness fund and the unemployment fund as well as the public finances as a whole. It is reasonable for a small country to keep the various reserves of the country together and to manage the money together. As a result, it is possible to improve the quality of public finances and to diversify financial risks. The merger will significantly increase the liquidity of the cashiers and the State. The Treasury shall allocate the resources of both the State and the cash registers and manage their cash flow in a uniform manner in accordance with the conservative liquidity and investment principles laid down by the Government. The high level of liquidity of the Treasury ensures that the sickness fund and the unemployment fund can use their available funds quickly and in large amounts, if necessary. The sickness and unemployment fund will no longer have to deal with support functions such as managing financial assets, the state will do so for them and the state will also be responsible. In the same way, the Tax and Customs Board collects health and unemployment insurance contributions free of charge for the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund. In addition, it is more appropriate for the state to pay interest within the general government rather than to pay to banks. By paying the same interest on the deposits of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund as the State earns from the cash reserve, the State will save EUR 24 million on interest paid to banks over four years, of which EUR 10 million in 2015 alone. The State avoids recourse to the credit market by combining cash reserves. Given the current uncertain financial markets and high borrowing rates, lending is unreasonable and financially detrimental to the state. Without the incorporation of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund, the state's debt would grow to 9.5% of GDP by 2015. By pooling the reserves of social security funds, we postpone borrowing, resulting in a reduction of the loan burden to 5.3%. On the basis of a legislative amendment, the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund will continue to hold their money in their own bank accounts, but these accounts will be merged into the group of national bank accounts. As a result of consolidation, the sickness fund and the unemployment fund will remain guaranteed the autonomy of the public institution, be it emphasised once again! As a result of the amendment, the principles of the social security funds, on the basis of which these funds are created and have been very well managed, are not changed. At the same time, despite the establishment of a public entity, the state retains responsibility for the functioning of the state as a whole, and that is why we are proposing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U350	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. You have questions. Let's start with my colleague, Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U351	Pooling reserves. You've said nothing will change. Let's say Jürgen Ligi has money in Andrus Ansip's safe for some reason. In one case, the condition is that the money is there and you take it if you need it. Now it's gonna change because the safe owner says he's gonna take a little bit of the money you put in and put it back there later. Is anything gonna change for you, or isn't it gonna change?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U352	Thank you. For me, these are both stupid situations. I don't keep money like that. I'll put the money in the bank. I know the bank's gonna make me interest on it, even taking economic risks and covering its own expenses, but I'm still keeping the money in that bank. I know I can walk in there any minute, walk in to the Internet bank any minute, get my money. Nothing's gonna change for me. I'd still be a fool if I kept my money in a safe, let his value fall, and suffer from burglars. I do not rule out that the Prime Minister may also have burglars.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U353	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U354	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You have come before the Riigikogu by a law called the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit, artificial insemination and the Embryo Protection Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Law of the Prosecutor's Office. What was in your head when you bound such different laws into one cluster and wanted to change them in one procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U355	Thank you. The fact you mentioned is correct. What's in my head is a very long story, and I'm not going to describe it all. However, I would point out that this is a multi-annual tradition. As I have already mentioned in the proceedings on the previous draft, it has its own good and faults. However, since these are, above all, financial changes, which do not require a very substantive debate, a professional discussion, I think it is practical. Just because the budget finally complies with the law and we should not at one point discover that the Riigikogu has got into a fight over the prosecutor's salary, for example, and that is why the budget needs to be changed. Maybe you have an opinion that the prosecutor's salary shouldn't be this way, but a little different. The package guarantees public finances, and it is, of course, reasonable to deal separately with those drafts that have major professional disputes. But the point of the question is understandable. I'm just reminding you that this has been done before.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U356	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U357	Thank you. Thank God, the Minister of Finance is very reasonable and commands his own money. Then why do you mind with the unemployment and health funds if they don't want to put their money in Andrus' safe?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U358	Thank you. They don't put the money in Andrus' safe. They should be fools if they put it in Andrus' safe, because they could break into the Prime Minister's office, and in any case, they want to get interest for their money. When Ivari, my predecessor, whom I have great respect for as a human, presented a similar bill, he did not mean paying interest. He didn't want to keep the bank account either. By the way, I'm thinking if I have money in Andrus' safe, is this parallel to this account the same? No, it's still an Andrus account. But the cashiers keep their accounts, they save on accounts, the fees paid to the French and Finnish banks. The State wins on interest, the cashiers do not have to hold such a large reserve or pay fees to these banks. I'd say it's a very successful bill. I can't even imagine how there could be a quarrel about something as trivial as employers and employees who, as I said in the previous draft, form the most viable part of society's desire to sit on a pile of money with their butt, which has no practical value. That it must create such long political discussions, meetings, debates in public, newspaper articles honestly, it is embarrassing! Knowing you as a politician and judging you extremely highly, I do not think this issue is worthy of your level. Honestly, that was a compliment right now. You're thousands of times higher than this argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U359	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U360	Thank you, Madam President. In this case, if I am not mistaken, we are dealing with a classic cluster law, for which the President was quite skeptical. We recently discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs the initiation of an amendment to the Act on Artificial Fertilisation and Embryo Protection. At some point, is this bill still going to break up and take out some other parts?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U361	Thank you. Here is one common denominator why the draft was presented as such a package, which is an improvement in the budgetary situation. These things have financial implications and a budget has been drawn up. I do not think that the issue of assisted reproduction requires any solution within the framework of this draft or that this simple amendment should necessarily be presented as a separate draft. I don't think it's such a bad idea, even though I don't deny that there may be questions here. I'm just reminding you that we've done this before. We didn't see the big problem. However, we are afraid that if we give the Riigikogu five or six separate drafts, we will not be able to ensure a smooth budgetary process.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U362	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U363	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns part of this draft amending law, namely the increase in excise duties on alcohol. Personally, I think that raising alcohol duty gradually is a sensible step; it is part of the fight against excessive alcohol consumption. What is the plan for the next few years, after 2012, to do with increasing excise duties on alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U364	Thank you. I'm refraining from issuing any bills here, I've made this mistake. When I was met by the alcohol producers, I said very clearly that I did not intend to do so, but I cannot rule out that the budgetary process comes to a phase where I have to raise my hands and say that yes, excise duties on alcohol must be raised, such a proposal is being made and the government is forced to approve this budget. It would have been nice if we had made this decision earlier, I can sum it up like this, but I cannot rule out that this issue will not come up again in the coming year or the next year, although I think it would rather not. The final promises are not very good here, but such practice could be that such proposals are called out earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U365	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U366	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Over the past six months, we have spoken here on several occasions that the financial capacity of local governments could be increased by losing their credit capacity. But from this bill, we can still see that the local government loan limit remains. How do you comment on why this is so?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U367	That sounded awful when you told me to take off the loan limit. I am absolutely sure that we will then see the local governments bankrupt. I do not believe that all local governments are equally responsible, in addition to which the central government is responsible for the general financial situation of the country. We have made some cuts over time because the municipalities have been living in a negative situation, but the public sector is still seen as a balanced overall system. The state will therefore save and other municipalities will have to save more if someone goes too far. I don't think it's appropriate to talk about losing a loan line right now. But we did take this step that the new law on the financial management of the local government makes the determination of credit capacity flexible, but it does not raise the limit itself. Just the basis from which this 60% limit is calculated will change and will also change as a basis for borrowing. It is no longer just for co-financing and refinancing, but also for investments in general. The loan is available to those whose debt burden is not yet 60%. You can take different loans to this limit as early as next year. So their situation is getting cooler, but I'm not saying that the increase in the debt burden is the same thing as the improvement in the situation of local governments. I'd rather say it's an extra risk for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U368	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U369	Thank you. Since Eiki Nestor is so high, I will ask one more question about reserves myself. Since one of the reasons for changing the so-called "maintenance conditions" of the sickness fund and unemployment insurance reserve was also a small return on the money they held, how much could the average productivity of the reserves of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund be this year and what is the current return on the reserves of the Treasury?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U370	Thank you. I have not raised this argument at all, but if we compare profitability, we also need to establish equal risk rules and they have been looser for the unemployment fund. What the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund benefit from are fees, bank transfers, ease of accounting, increased liquidity and, in fact, the withdrawal of investment risk. Right now, if they make a minus, they make a minus. In the event of a merger, the State will allow the Treasury to promise them by law that they will not earn a minus if the Treasury goes into a minus, which cannot be ruled out if the markets are unfavourable. Even the most conservative placements can go negative, but in this case, the damage is entirely borne by the Treasury, not by the Health Insurance Fund or the Unemployment Insurance Fund. This is an additional guarantee. You are protected from the minus, you are protected from investment risks, and you are also protected from a lot of costs, but the state will win very large sums simply because it does not have to go to the credit market. It's in the public interest. I say again: it is not the case that the two strongest groups, employers and employees, seem to think that they are the big money depositors. No, we are more responsible than only for employees and employers. We're responsible for the unemployed, for the children, for the elderly, for the sick. So we're doing this in a much more general way than in the interest of some interest groups, we're doing it in the general interest. And I don't see how it might be in their interest to deal with financial risks, I don't see it! I don't understand what's being said.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U371	Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U372	Minister of Finance, please just make it clear to me now. If what you offer to the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund is so good, sweet and useful and only the stupid Social Democrats do not understand it, why does the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund not agree with it? There are no children there, there are also highly respected employers, and neither do they. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U373	My respect for these representatives fell sharply, I'm restoring it now, and, frankly, it's going pretty hard. It's still hard to make so much stupid talk about such an empty thing, and all the arguments have fallen off one by one. Let me give you a drastic example. I have met everyone, both CEOs and representatives, at the employers' council, one by one, at a debate attended by several trade unionists. The last argument that faded was that if this money was in your treasury, we couldn't take any more money to build a house. Oh, my God, there's nothing like that! Build, if you're so hard, build houses! You can always go to the bank and ask for your money. You will also make a request to the Treasury, and that money will come. Why do you need to serve Finnish and French banks? Why do you need to do more complicated accounting? Why do you need to make the bank transfers we're making for you? Why do you have to pay them fees? I don't understand it. Why do you need financial risk? The securities market can go negative, and the Treasury is legally forced to pay for this minus. No, it's better to say that that's why we're sitting there to play the stock market and feel like the owner of that money. It's a relatively cynical story, though, when one hand in the country says, you know, I'm so independent, I have my own interests, and I'm gonna go away now, take care of my own business. The result is that both the body and the hands lose, neither is very viable on their own. It's the only reason this hand is to do a state thing, and now suddenly it turns out it's a lobby thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U374	Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U375	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I hope you have noticed that the opposition does not always vote 'no', but very often we also vote 'yes'. In general, I think that if there were six drafts instead of this one bill, we would have voted in favour of quite a number of drafts. Now, however, we are in quite a difficult situation. Which of these laws is the most important one that could be considered to vote for? Or should we come up with some kind of system to put pros and cons on every bill and then count it as if the pros are more, then we vote in favour, and if there are more cons, then against? What advice do you give us?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U376	Thank you! I'm having a hard time giving you advice because the problem you're describing exists. But as a consolation, I say, make amendments, express your will, and then consider whether this particular element there, whether it is my opinion that it is worth voting against the entire budget, whether it is the pay of the Chief Prosecutor or the pooling of cashiers. I think you're gonna vote against the whole budget anyway, you don't have a big dilemma here, you don't give a shit. But these are things that have been done for the budget, they are related to the budget. One increases costs, but most do. I do not deny that this choice is questionable, but I think that all the paragraphs can be dealt with separately in the Riigikogu. It is my interest, as a budgetary author, to ensure that they move together, that the committees do not deal with the matter separately and that some of them are simply hung up.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U377	Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U378	Thank you. I'm asking about alcohol duty. I did not find a comparison in the explanatory memorandum with other European countries of how high or low our alcohol duty is compared to that of other European countries. Perhaps it could be further increased and the revenue from the state budget increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U379	Thank you. I'm sure this data can be sent to you. Remind me. But this estimate, I can tell you, the excise is low. From neighbouring countries, Finland is now raising excise duty, Russia is even lower, probably considerably. I am afraid that we have begun to tax alcohol more evenly, but I am not sure. Excise goods are different. In general, we could have a similar excise policy with the Latvians, and that is what we are trying to do. Both are interested in revenue from the budget and also in limiting excise consumption. In general, we have vodka fucking cheap, that's a fact, and it's always gotten relatively cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U380	Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U381	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I've noticed quite a few logic errors in your answers here. One logic error was when you thought the opposition, voting against, would do it because he was indifferent. I object that no, since we are not indifferent, we will delve into the contents of the drafts, even if they are involved in the cluster. The second logic error related to the part of the draft concerning artificial insemination. When you read the text that was written to us, you said that patients with low hopes of success would be reduced, that the money would be directed to patients with better hope of success and that the waiting lists would be reduced. But after you started explaining your own words, you said that the law on artificial insemination must be in the package because it improves the budgetary situation and saves money. Which, then, is he improving the situation of patients with a better hope of success and shortening the number of treatments, or is he simply withdrawing money from artificial insemination and improving the budgetary position?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U382	No more questions for you. I thank you for your thorough answers. We're opening negotiations. Deniss Borodichi, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U383	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk a little bit about the principles, the procedure of the Riigikogu and parliamentary democracy. I remember when this session started. It started on September 12th when the President gave a long and interesting speech here. Among other things, he mentioned the following: 'As a president, I am in a difficult position, ladies and gentlemen, when Kadriorgu is brought together to amend several different laws. If one amendment is unconstitutional, the President can, as we know, reject the cluster change only in its entirety. This means that legal provisions that are compatible with the Constitution will not enter into force. It is no longer appropriate to deal with legislative changes with different objectives together. I beg you, take your time, discuss different areas of life separately! [---] This means that every new law must be discussed with representatives of civil society. The Riigikogu is responsible for the laws, not the government. Each member of the Riigikogu is responsible for his or her decision. Every member of the Riigikogu must be able to explain and justify the law. ' And what do we see again? At this point, yet again, a package of amendments to several laws has been packed before us. According to the title of the draft, the topics of the draft should be closely related to the State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic next year and the Law amending the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit, the Act on Artificial Reproductive and Embryo Protection Act, the Act on Unemployment Insurance and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. But is that really true? Are all these laws that really need to be amended really linked to next year's state budget? If you look at and analyse this draft a little bit, I think that everyone will conclude: 1) there is neither a common nor a major area of regulation to be defined in the draft; 2) there is no common element in the draft that requires the need to be dealt with together; 3) the issues discussed in the draft are not sufficiently interlinked or are entirely independent; 4) several issues covered by the draft are completely excluded from one of the Commission's areas. For example, the draft sets out as an independent subject the basis for the salary organisation of the prosecutor's office. The content of the amendment to the Act on Artificial Fertilisation and Embryo Protection is, in fact, to make health services more effective, based primarily on the effectiveness of in vitro fertilisation and embryo transplantation and related health risks, etc. The draft and its explanatory memorandum have been prepared in sections by ministries of different responsibilities. It is also not right to consider changes as a common area for their impact on the budget, and such a link should not generally prevail over regulated areas of content, which have always been the basis for the formation of Riigikogu committees. The President's urging not to send changes to Kadriorg has passed just 17 days after the bad legislative practice that began in 2009, which changes a large number of laws regulating different areas within the framework of a draft law in the context of the state budget, begins to settle, forcing the Riigikogu once again to become a rubber stamp. This vigorous tactic of the government hinders the work of the Riigikogu, making it problematic to process draft laws and stifle the discussion prior to their adoption in the beginning. In the Riigikogu, however, the debate is necessary and even mandatory. In particular, procedural problems arise in the process of processing the draft measures, as they are dealt with by the permanent committees of the Riigikogu, which are sector-specific. The draft cluster consists of laws in different areas, which are often not covered by sectoral committees. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U384	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U385	Good manager! Good minister! I have a question about amending the Financial Management Act for a local authority. When it was decided in 2009 that local governments' lending opportunities would be limited to three years, many municipalities started writing projects actively and have now also received positive responses to requests for funding from different Structural Funds. Aren't you afraid that some municipalities may not be able to use the money from the Structural Funds next year because they may not borrow for their co-financing? There aren't many of them, but there are several hinges in this situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U386	Thank you. Neither, of course, was a logical error. My assessment of your motives is not subject to rules of logic, but to other considerations, and as far as this other question is concerned, the objectives are all met. On the one hand, it is possible to save money, on the other hand, by better targeting it, to improve the situation of patients who have greater hopes of success. And by reducing the number of patients who are entitled to this benefit, we would also shorten the waiting lists. But the Minister of Social Affairs could, of course, explain this to you in greater detail. I've always been thrilled to hear him speak as cleverly as a doctor in several diseases, in very detailed terms. I'm not that smart. There's a great future before him, as I once said, as a doctor. He's been really good.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U387	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U388	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! My question is about increasing excise duties on alcohol. As I said earlier, I am in favour of raising this excise duty, because it is one measure to discourage excessive alcohol consumption. But the question concerns a short period of notice. When VAT was raised a few years ago at very short notice, the government and coalition made it a pretext or a reason for making urgent decisions in the economic crisis. The whole coalition and the government are now saying that the economic crisis is over. What, then, is the reason for this short notice and do you, as chairman of the committee, consider it normal that one tax be increased at such short notice?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U389	As you also mentioned the increase in VAT, here it should now be said that the issue is always in the background systems. According to my memory, the increase in VAT was dealt with and taken as a decision and enforced even more quickly. It was literally a matter of weeks when he entered into force, which I think was also pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice. The question is always in the background systems, when we look at something, a snail can crawl really fast when it has another snail next to it. So if we look at the context of the entry into force of the VAT law, we could say that now it was given quite a long time, many months. Here is now the question of how long this normal time should be to enforce tax laws. In this case, in October, even in September, the government approved its plans and handed them over to the Riigikogu. So the identity has already been given to the public, and then we're talking about three and a half months. If you also asked for my personal opinion, I think it might be even longer. I believe that the longer the various changes in the tax environment are known or predicted, the better it will be for businesses in particular, and the safer it will be. But it's such a matter of feeling. In this case, too, the interest groups, or the association of alcohol producers, have not protested that it will come to them too quickly. They'll be able to respond in 3.5 months. Rather, it is a problem, as I said in my report, that they are asking for one month to be postponed, not least because the speed is in the back, but because it coincides with the general increase in Christmas workload. This letter is long and thorough, but I gave you a meaningful overview. So today we are here with this bill and at least there are no protested interest groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U390	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U391	Thank you. Evening hour and my memory may not be so fresh anymore, but you have papers in front of you. When we were discussing this in the Commission, when it was said that it was actually beneficial for these cashiers to combine the reserves of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund with the treasury, were they also asked why these cashiers did not want to agree to this in any way, and what was the answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U392	Thank you, good questioner! I really have papers in front of me, but I don't have a real verbatim, and I can't tell you if that's what they asked me. I believe they were most likely asked, because we talked about these matters. I'd rather try to interpret what was said. I shall repeat, to some extent, the words which the Minister, when presenting the draft here, said about the whole positive side that comes with it. I will simply repeat this: there will be no purely financial costs, estimated at up to EUR 10 million in various bank costs and other costs, and possible risks that must be taken up by placing themselves, etc. This victory is on both sides. If we get to the other side of the question, why do they not agree with it, then quite frankly, I also find it a little unclear why they do not agree. That is why I think that, in the near future, we will be organising a meeting between the Commission and the representatives of the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund, where we will specify what they will have in mind. The Minister also said that, if you look back in history, there are very different reasons in the debates, and the Minister has rejected these fears one by one. One minute it should still come to the point that if you have no fears, you wouldn't have to resist. Not the way it has sometimes been in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that one party sometimes has no reason to oppose it, but it is simply a matter of opposing it. I don't think there's any point in resisting it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U393	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U394	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I come back to the concept of cluster law. We used to have a law that changed six laws, now you're changing four laws. Where does the cluster begin in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U395	Thank you. Yeah, well, we went quietly on this slippery road, but we'll keep going as long as we can. I mean, by slippery road, this subject that has not been discussed in the Commission, but which we could talk about here via the speaker's desk and through you. It is not precisely determined where and at what point this cluster begins and at what point we feel internally and essentially that the bill, whatever it is, is no longer really connected. The Minister also said this from this speaker and asked why this issue has not been raised in previous years. Of course, you can ask that question. Perhaps to some extent the answer can be said that this critical line was now crossed and too many laws came together in one law. Maybe that's the reason I can't tell you anything else about why this hasn't been brought up before. But once again, on the substantive side, the truth, in this example, it seemed relatively difficult to deal with the law on artificial insemination and embryo protection in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, because the members of the Commission simply do not have this competence, at least not at this level. I think this decision was right that we asked the Social Affairs Committee to deal with it, and in the light of feedback, I have realised that the Social Affairs Committee has already started a completely substantive debate on this issue. I think that, in our committee, maybe with all the other laws, this would have simply been overstepped. There is still a substantive debate at the moment, and it is indeed a debate on whether the benefits for the fourth child need to be reduced or abolished. There have now been meetings of specialists in their field. But if you come back to your question of what to call a cluster of things again, it's not a question of feeling, it doesn't have the courage to draw the boundaries of the fourth or sixth draft here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U396	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U397	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I am already asking the question because you do not think that colleagues do not appreciate you and ask all the questions to the Minister of Finance. Secondly, I have also realised that things are being discussed very seriously in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that you are chairing and that experts are being heard. Here's the question. With regard to the previous draft, the Minister of Finance has just said in relation to excise duties that it is only a draft number. Has your committee also examined that the increase in excise duty on tobacco and alcohol, which is undoubtedly correct, could cause minors to have access to them and increase consumption? Medical practitioners, parents, and honest merchants are concerned about minors. An honest merchant usually takes into account the age limit, but snuff and alcohol do not take into account that limit. Has it been studied?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U398	Thank you. You started out so pleasantly, I felt really good about us all having this discussion. But at the end of the day, you put me in a way that I have to admit right away: no, that's the kind of analysis we haven't done. Unfortunately, I really have to admit that we have not had such an accurate analysis on the table of how much the current 5% increase could be an increase in the secret market and on which it is based. As this increase is not very high, it is said that it is quite likely that the share of the secret market will not increase as much. It doesn't make sense that it should start growing fast now, because the 5% increase isn't really big. We are not really discussing tobacco excise duty, which is stated in the name of the law, because it has been agreed that it will increase by 10% next year and by 10% the following year. These analyses are definitely available to the Ministry of Finance. They certainly exist because the Ministry of Finance is the substantive author of these drafts, and the Ministry's team is investigating one or the other by drawing up the market economy and possible threats. We have not yet had a direct need to carry out further checks to take possible decisions on whether or not we approve. In any case, with the current 5% increase in alcohol duty, we cannot assume that the secret market will grow even more. Rather, it can be said that there is little, but there is still a slight increase in alcohol prices, and on the other hand this means that the price difference has been slightly more expensively taxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U399	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U400	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! I also recall that we were talking about inviting the representatives of the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund to a meeting and discussing the matter with them. But did we agree on a time when we could do this? The concern is that, in the course of the debate, if the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Unemployment Fund and the Health Insurance Fund should convince us that this idea is not as good as it has been presented here, whether we will have time to make an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U401	We have thought that this should logically take place between the first and second readings, since between the second and third readings, basically only technical improvements are already being made. The deadline for amendments, if it is to be brought into play now, is not to be worried, as the deadline for amendments is, however, intended for political groups and members of the Riigikogu. However, since your question was motivated by the Commission's attitude and the formulation of the Commission's opinion, the Commission will be able to make amendments to the draft even after the deadline for amendments has arrived, essentially until it adopts a decision to send the draft to the Chamber. We haven't actually made that decision yet. So the Commission will have the opportunity to adopt this change in the near future, yes and yes. I think right now we have a good time match. Now, if you ask very specifically when this meeting could come, I think that next week our technical staff will consult with specific interest groups and try to find a time that suits us, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where we will deal with other drafts besides this draft, as well as the category. I believe we will find the time to review and discuss the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U402	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U403	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to be more specific. From what I understand, this draft was addressed only to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the other committees did not touch on it. It was not important that, for example, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act or the Unemployment Insurance Act are like matters of the Social Affairs Committee. Secondly, you said that there was an opportunity to discuss, to look. But if November 3 is the deadline for making corrections, will there be time to look? I mean, it's very problematic, next week is a little different from this week to have a hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U404	Good Eldar, there's always time to watch. It's a short answer. But, to put it a little bit longer, we're going to take it easy on this bill. Today we are dealing with this bill, we have talked about it in the committee, and today it has been dealt with in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Next week is a sitting-free week, where we have even more time and opportunities to deal not only with voters but also with legislation in this context in order to prepare possible amendments. We have quite a lot of time until 3 November; we are not dealing with amendments that will be due tomorrow. In addition, what I said earlier: the Committee on Social Affairs and, if I am mistaken, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are also about to start a debate on the corresponding drafts. In the Committee on Social Affairs, a draft proposal for artificial insemination is to be discussed, which essentially means that he will take the text of the same draft here with copy paste and will begin to deal with it in his committee. Similarly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs does with the draft law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. And if we are sure that they have started this beautifully, we will see that the drafts have been brought into the Chamber, we will understand that the Commission has so-called formalised it for itself, then it will be technically very likely that we will take these specific points out of here with the amendment in order not to double-discretion. This could be the technical side.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U405	Thank you. I'm not afraid because I've been assured that this problem is almost nonexistent. Let me remind you, we're basically changing the credit line records. The situation and credit capacity of the municipalities are not significantly affected, and this 60% limit was still a threat to a few dozen municipalities. Where other subjects, water companies, foundations etc. of the group join, the situation will certainly change. I don't consider this project writing to be such a disturbing task that a year can't be written. Patience when times are tight! I'd be happy to specify that. My deputy chancellor is already writing me the answer to my computer and sending me the number of municipalities or projects that could actually fall under this limit for projects in euro. But there has been a lot of overinvestment in local governments, and I think that one reason for doing administrative reform in one way or another is that everyone is also trying to do their own thing in the case of investments rather than co-operatively. Making some kind of reform through co-operation could be a noble thing for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U406	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U407	Thank you. I'd like to ask you about alcohol duty. The increase in the price of alcohol itself, on the one hand, really slows down alcohol consumption, but on the other, increases the market for illicit alcohol consumption. Did this forecast of an increase of 7,8% next year in the amount of alcohol excise duty to the budget take into account an increase in the consumption of secret alcohol, which does not generate any income in the budget? Have you corrected this estimate based on these data?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U408	Thank you. Predicts always consider this risk. In this case, it must be said that this effect is quite insignificant, within the margin of error. The 3% increase in the price of a bottle of wine does not trigger any particular secret market, but these effects will of course have to be taken into account by forecasters.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U409	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U410	Thank you. I'd like to clarify a little bit. Can we look at the loan percentage as if it is still part of the co-financing of the Structural Funds, then it could go over 60%?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U411	Thank you. Absolutely not. This restriction was still in force, and I think it made sense. The place where we made the exception was water projects. The reason was that we had a convenient opportunity to provide co-financing for an intra-government loan, that was KIC money, that was behind the national obligations in the form of the Euro Directives. But just make the rules as flexible as possible so that over-borrowed parishes can spend more, I don't think it makes any sense. The real aim is also to keep investment spending under control, not to make this activity as comfortable as possible with exceptions. We will certainly review these assessments of how many municipalities we are dealing with today. It's not that big a problem. There should also be some kind of bonus for local governments that have invested gradually, proactively, not early on to 60%.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U412	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U413	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In your introduction, you mentioned that the amendment to the Prosecutor's Office Act concerns a single post. In the explanatory memorandum, I read that this is going to shape the whole grade change in the DA's office. Which is correct and how hard does it affect the cost of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U414	Thank you. The question is absolutely right, I touched it in the speech. Firstly, in the explanatory memorandum it was worded roughly in a way that is not an obligation, but the purpose of the wage policy is to look at these changes in wages at once. I don't like it very much, I have to be honest. As a result, we had a lot of trouble with the previous Minister of Justice because, in his opinion, the automatic rise of the judges' salaries created an automatic obligation to raise wages across the court, so in the end, the poor court officials, who still have to know something about the quality of the trial, the administration and the law, were almost hired. The pay money was eaten by the judges and would have eaten by the prosecutors if we had tied it rigidly. I don't like this commitment financially, but basically it's justified again. Should be more or less comparable agencies, everyone sitting in the same process.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U415	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U416	Thank you. I understand that alcohol duty cannot be increased more, trade and alcohol producers are suffering because some of our drink friends are too poor. But basically, we do dot our Finnish friends, and me and your beer bottle. In the case of universal child benefits, you did not support this approach. What, then, can we do about it? Maybe we should introduce needs-based, poor drinker support here, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U417	Are you thinking about returning alcohol duty to the poor people now? No, I didn't quite understand your reasoning. If you are open to increasing excise duty, I again think that the country has behaved badly enough right now. As the excise duty is increased at very short notice, at least it is not appropriate to increase it. But the price increase is very low, and I don't think the poor have to drink more than he can buy, rather he should drink much less.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U418	Thank you, good Minister of Finance. There are no further questions for you on this item. I invite the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester, to be co-presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U419	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We deal with the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, the Act on artificial insemination and embryo protection, the Act on unemployment insurance and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. That's the law. I will first give you an overview of what has already been a little touched on in this Chamber today, i.e. the issues relating to the so-called cluster bill, which the Commission has discussed. Later, I would also like to give an overview, by sector, of the substantive issues that were addressed in the Commission for a particular draft. The Commission met on this issue and the draft was discussed on 17 October. During the preparation of this debate, without going to the content, the Commission found the following: This is a cluster bill if you use this concept, which brings together a wide range of topics across and within the field of the sectoral division of committees of the Riigikogu. That's what I saw when I read out the title of the bill. Topics such as the organisation of the public prosecutor's office's salary and the effectiveness of in vitro fertilisation have so far not been within the remit of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and there is not enough substantive connection with the rest of these issues. As a general rule, the budgetary impact of changes should not be the only and main link between the changes and in this way the legislative amendment concerning the state's revenue or expenditure should not be discussed as the commission of finance. The President of the Republic, including last on 14 October, has repeatedly pointed out the dangers of adopting cluster laws when he met with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Riigikogu has organised its work on the basis of the sectoral competence of the committees and this should be taken into account when initiating and processing the drafts. Consequently, the Committee on Monetary Affairs addressed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs a proposal to divide the draft by 100 sectors and to initiate parts of the draft proposal concerning the area of competence of these committees as separate drafts. In addition, the committee also drew the attention of the Riigikogu's board of directors to the bottlenecks associated with the processing of cluster drafts and in turn recommended that the attention of the government be drawn to the violation of the right of self-regulation of the Riigikogu already mentioned. It was now about cluster billing. Now for the substance of the bill. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, was in the Commission to present the content of the draft and answer questions. The main issues that went through the Commission and which have been reflected in this Chamber today were these. With regard to the increase in the rate of excise duty on alcohol, it was discussed what the impact on price would be at all. The Minister also turned it down in this Chamber, but I will repeat what he said in the committee. Indeed, the impact on the price is small, while 5% does not automatically imply an increase of 5% in the price of the product. As can be seen from the explanatory memorandum, the price of a 0.7 litre bottle of wine rose from EUR 5 to EUR 5,03. So essentially these slopes aren't very high in real life. There was a similar interest in the secret market. Here too, the Minister found that the impact on the secret market is small, that alcohol is still relatively cheap in Estonia at the moment, and this price increase is not so high. A letter from alcohol producers, which has not been discussed in this Chamber today, found a separate procedure in the Commission. This letter was sent to both the Commission and the Minister, and the point of the letter is that alcohol producers are asking to postpone the increase by one month. They do not dispute the increase in excise duty rates; they do not have the possibility to contest it, but they have a request to do so in one month's time. They justify this by the fact that, just before the increase in excise duty, the burden generally rises, and this time it coincides exactly with the general increase in duty during Christmas. This would mean that in December they would have to work to see that in three shifts, which is not bad in itself, but it would also mean a clear increase in financial costs for them and in January workers should essentially be sent on a part-time forced leave. In the Commission, we fixed this problem, and we are most likely to continue to deal with it between first and second readings. Whether we take their request into account or not, it is already clear in the course of the debate, but at least as a subject we had it up in the Commission. The issue of maintaining and managing the resources of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the Health Insurance Fund was discussed by the Commission on all the same issues that were put forward in this Chamber: whether it is necessary at all, whether it is useful, what rights are being violated, whether it is being violated, why it is done, etc. I will not repeat them again, Mr Minister gave completely adequate answers, both in this Chamber and in the Commission. The topics related to the amendment of the Financial Management Act of the local municipality were also examined. Again, the same subjects that were repeated today in this Chamber. Some local authorities have taken into account that they can invest more than 60%. A national envoy said it would create distrust of the state if we put such a limit on it. The Minister said that the debt burden limit is already relatively high, that it is in everyone's interest, in the interests of balance, to limit this expenditure. There was also an interest in the involvement of local authorities in the development of these changes. The representative of the Ministry confirmed that the changes were discussed twice and stated that no consensus was reached, but that there was full involvement. At this point, I also very much hope that we will be able to meet stakeholders between the first and second readings. In the same way, we hope to meet representatives of the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund, as this issue is active. Although the Ministry which initiated the draft has spoken to them, the Commission, as the judge, wants to talk to them in the same way and listen to their views in addition to having sent us their opinions in writing. And then there really were the issues of the DA's office's salary and assisted reproduction. As I mentioned earlier, we decided to turn to the relevant committees. On the basis of the current information, the Social Affairs Committee has already initiated or is about to initiate amendments to the ART Act, and I understand that this second area committee is about to deal with the law of the prosecutor's office. All the remaining questions concerning the Committee on Monetary Affairs remained in a specific draft. Finally, the Commission entered the decision-making phase and the following decisions were put on the table. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the draft law be placed on the agenda of 100 plenary sessions on 26 October, i.e. today. The decision was consensual, no one had any problems. The second proposal was to conclude the first reading. It was supported by 6 and 5 members of the Commission opposed, with no abstentions, so that the Commission supported this proposal. The third proposal was to set a deadline for amendments, which could be set at 6 a.m. on 3 November. This proposal was proposed again by consensus. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U420	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U421	Burdening the work of the Riigikogu with such drafts inevitably raises the question of the quality of the laws and calls into question the will of the government to process the drafts normally and fairly. It is not respectful of the Riigikogu for the failure to follow the procedure for the preliminary ruling and the initiation of a draft requiring an inadequate parliamentary debate. The procedure of the Riigikogu, with which the government is undoubtedly familiar, the repeated initiation by the government of drafts, can be seen as influencing the organisation of the Riigikogu's work, and we will see again how a draft procedure that is evading democratic values contributes to the realisation that parliamentary democracy is the first victim in difficult circumstances. Since I am an optimist by nature, I hope, however, that after the first reading of the draft, it will be divided into separate draft laws, i.e. the Riigikogu will once again improve the breakdown of the Government of the Republic and in the future the government will follow the procedure of the Riigikogu and will not send cluster laws into this hall. The Minister of Finance said, as a reason why we are doing this now, that this has been done before, but I hope that it will never be done again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U422	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U423	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! First of all, it would probably be polite for me to thank the Minister of Finance, who is not in the Chamber, for his good words. I don't know if what I'm about to say is above or below his level, but it's definitely completely different, it's a long way from that. When the Minister was repeatedly asked today why employers and trade unions protest against the nationalisation of their reserves, he said he did not understand. And that was an honest answer, he really doesn't understand. Really, the understanding is far from each other. They're protesting for what? First of all, because so far there have been two special-purpose insurances with a firm commitment to raise money and to use that money only for the purpose for which it has been collected. Even the Health Insurance Fund, which currently has money in the Treasury, knows that the Treasury must do nothing but pay out to the Health Insurance Fund. Now this time it's gonna change for him. For the Unemployment Insurance Fund, the situation is quite different. To them, this bill is even economically damaging, because today they are earning more from their assets than the Treasury will ever pay them. But all of this, I'm telling you, friends, is a nuance about this. The basic opposition is something else. The other is that when the health insurance fund was built ten years ago in the form it is now, at least there was a foundation and both employers and employees were invited to build a house on this foundation. Unemployment insurance didn't even have the foundation, employers, trade unions and the government kicked the ground together, together with the foundation ditch dug, together the foundation was established and it was agreed that this unemployment insurance would come exactly as it would come. Now it has come to a completely different situation. In ten years, this is the third attempt to get unemployment insurance into the state's paw. One experiment ended happily. I would like to thank my colleague Marko Pomerants, who called me that summer, for congratulations and said that Eiki, everything is fine. I thought he understood what I was worried about. This is the third attempt. And I really don't understand what the point is. You see, these two insurances have been so successful that all the competitions that have been held in Estonia on the clear use of public money ended so that the sickness fund was the first and the unemployment fund was the second. In the meantime, these competitions weren't held, they must have gotten tired of us giving them the first seats for a long time. A few weeks ago, there was news that there was some new, even international competition, and now they're both the best two. I don't understand, is this some kind of total anger? That if the state and the Ministry of Finance could use public money equally honestly, clearly and unambiguously, then we would still be at a very high level. They can't do it, they don't like it, and maybe that's why they want those assets. What's the matter, good Jürgen Ligi, wherever you are? Those people who have managed this register so far and with whom this has been done on the basis of agreements with them are extremely offended, angry and rightly angry. They have done this work conscientiously and well, and now it is said: you can sit next to it, but we will decide everything. That's the difference. This is a perfectly clear, unambiguously different approach to what a country should be like. According to our approach, the state should be exactly where, even in the inter-election period, interest groups are run and responsible for this country. So far, they've done it well, but we take them, we bully them, we kill them. A completely ugly bill, no good anywhere! Our proposal is to reject the draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U424	Thank you very much. Negotiation requests, no more requests. I'm closing the negotiations. As we have received the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to reject the draft at first reading 100, we must vote on it. We are preparing the voting procedure. Good Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group 100 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted for by 25, against by 50 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal to reject the draft did not go through. First reading of the bill is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 100 amendments on 3 November at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U425	We are going to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U426	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! With this draft, we propose to transpose into Estonian law European Union directives governing the recovery of tax debts and the exchange of information necessary for taxation in the European Union. The amendments state that the tax authorities have the right to provide official support to the countries of the European Union and to the countries with which Estonia has an international agreement. The tax authorities are also entitled to seek official support from these countries. It also provides that the tax authorities have the right to use the same measures as those applicable to the recovery of domestic tax debts when enforcing foreign claims. The taxable persons and the tax authorities shall be granted the right to appeal against a court order which, if granted, shall be granted authorisation by the tax authority for the purpose of pre-intention or rejecting the application of the tax authority. The Tax Act and the Credit Institutions Act are aligned with the OECD Model Agreement governing the exchange of information for taxation purposes for third parties. At the request of the bank, the tax authority must indicate in its order in the future the name of the taxable person or other information enabling the taxable person to be identified. Such information is in addition to the name of the person, such as the identity or register code, bank account number, etc. Under the law in force, the order contains only the name of the taxable person. The amendments to the Income Tax Act remove the tax-free limit on accommodation costs related to work and professional posting, and end the tax treatment of economic costs by means of a special preferential tax. As regards the abolition of sales and boat taxes from the new year, the Local Tax Act is supplemented by an implementing provision which allows tax authorities to recover tax liabilities incurred before 1 January 2012. By the date of entry into force of the Bill, we offer 1 January 2012. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U427	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I ask for a co-report from Eiki Nestor, Member of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U428	On this draft, honourable members of the Riigikogu, I have the following to say. In the debate that we had, it was first said that there was nothing to be done, that this was another cluster bill. We asked quite sincerely, which is why changes to the Tax Administration Act, together with changes to the Income Tax Act, are also necessary. The cooperation of the Republic of Estonia's tax administration with the other tax administrations of the European Union, which must be transposed within the framework of the directive, is understandable, but as far as it relates to the abolition of the limit on hotel costs in our travel costs, there is no particular connection. We did not have a minister in the Commission this time, he had other important tasks and he could not come. He was a very good ministry worker, Lemmi Oro, and Lemmi tried to answer that question. He honestly said the Ministry made a cluster bill just to save time. So you and I are saving time, and we're going to work this out real quick. Overall, the Commission strongly supported these changes in terms of improving international tax administration. The Commission also had no objection that these limits would disappear and that hotels could be paid as much as they would pay, without fearing that a special preferential tax would have to be paid. Some excitement was caused by the fact that this "excellently prepared land tax law," which will soon enter into force, needed additional provisions. The government has brought them here now. The Commission's decision was as follows: 9 votes against and 1 abstention were in favour of concluding the draft at first reading, and the deadline for amendments is 3 November 2011 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U429	Thank you very much for the waitress. You don't have any questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee was to conclude the first reading of the draft. The first reading is closed and the deadline for submitting 106 amendments to the draft is 3 November 2011 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U430	Our seventh item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law 92 on amendments to private school law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister for Agriculture. To the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U431	Hello, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft amending the Private School Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and the University Act. The amendments concern the opening of curricula in higher education institutions. The draft amends the requirement that all educational institutions participating in the joint curriculum have the right to carry out their studies in the same curriculum group as the joint curriculum. If two educational institutions operating in different fields, one such as engineering, the other in the field of art, wish to open a joint curriculum, one of them must apply for the right to carry out studies in a study group in which he does not intend to engage in studies or his own competence, according to the law in force. The opening of a joint curriculum in this form is unreasonable and does not encourage interdisciplinary cooperation; it is often the opening of a joint curriculum that is abandoned. As a result of the changes, the joint curriculum can be opened in such a way that one of the institutions participating in the curriculum has the right to conduct the studies in the same group as the joint curriculum and the other has the right to conduct the studies in the study group with which the joint curriculum participates. The curriculum group with which the institution participates in the joint curriculum shall be mentioned in the cooperation agreement of the joint curriculum. In order to ensure a high quality of joint curricula, the draft allows the joint curriculum to be opened only on the basis of the study group that has obtained the right to conduct open-ended learning. In the meantime, the law also allowed the opening of a joint curriculum on the basis of a fixed-term right. Where appropriate, the joint curriculum shall be subject to an expert assessment before registration. Where the results of the examination are negative, the costs of the expert examination shall be borne by the educational institutions participating in the joint study programme. The State shall bear the costs if the result of the examination is positive. In this context, the adoption of the draft may entail costs for the state budget up to EUR 4000 per year. The draft deletes the requirement in the Private School Act that private universities carry out their studies in several fields of study, including doctoral studies in several fields of study. It is stipulated that, like public universities, a private university must have at least one doctoral curriculum to have university status. The amendments proposed in the draft would enter into force on 1 January 2012. The joint curricula so far registered must be brought into line with the changed requirements by 1 January 2015 at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U432	Thank you very much. There are no questions for the rapporteur, everything was very clear. I ask Liisa-Ly Pakosta, member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U433	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It seemed just as clear to the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, which discussed this at its meeting on 20 October. It was decided by consensus to put the draft on today's agenda and to propose that the first reading should be closed; this decision was also consensual; the deadline for the amendments was unanimously set at 6 p.m. on 2 November. The Commission discussed this issue. The questions raised during the discussion concerned the terminology of the draft and the principle that public universities must pay for the assessment themselves if the joint curriculum receives a negative assessment. However, since this principle had been accepted by the rectors of universities, the members of the Commission did not think otherwise either.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U434	Thank you. There's a question for you. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U435	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask whether there was a discussion at the Commission about the level of this expertise to be carried out. What level should it be so that the educational institution can obtain a final paper stating that its programmes are appropriate in every way?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U436	It was mentioned in the Commission that such expertise should take place within a reasonable period of time. As the Estonian state already has a long and thorough experience of accreditation of curricula beyond the joint curricula, this issue did not arise in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U437	No further questions. Thank you very much, Liisa-Ly Pakosta. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 92. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. a 2 November at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U438	Let us move to the next, eighth item, which is the first reading of the draft Act 103 on Amendment to the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U439	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am before you instead of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, who is currently in China, and who I do not envy about that. The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft of amendments to the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act. The aim of the amendments is to increase safety in air, maritime and rail transport. One of the pillars of transport safety has been the detailed investigation of accidents and other incidents, the identification of their causes and the implementation of measures to prevent similar incidents in the future. It is important that such an investigation is carried out professionally, quickly and, most importantly, independently. Independently of the supervisory authorities such as the Maritime Administration or the Authority, as they may have a role to play in the event, independently of criminal proceedings, since the identification of the causes and the sharing of blame and responsibility must be clearly separated, independently of all stakeholders, undertakings, insurers, infrastructure operators and other parties involved, who may have a high economic interest in one or other of the findings of the investigation. The requirement for the independence and permanent nature of the research institution also stems from European Union law and international agreements to which Estonia has joined. The list of these documents is also set out in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. The investigation of air and railway accidents is currently taking place in the Crisis Management Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and maritime accidents are being investigated by the Maritime Administration. The draft establishes a new structure within the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, called the Safety Investigation Centre, which will be responsible for explaining the causes of all three transport accidents and other incidents. It will be a so-called multimodal research unit, which is widespread in European countries, let us mention Finland, Sweden and Denmark, Norway and Latvia in the study of railway and air accidents. Of the major powers, accident investigation has been concentrated in a single institution in the United States, for example. The establishment of the Safety Investigation Centre will form a single and compact competence centre in Estonia, bringing together a unified structure of research competence and technical capabilities, becoming a professional, efficient and reliable unit to investigate the causes of accidents, being independent due to the rights and obligations arising from the law and lastly, since the investigation of each major accident is an international investigation, the Safety Investigation Centre is also a structural unit that is understandable and reliable to external partners. The legislative changes will not entail an additional burden on the state budget as there will be a concentration of jobs and no new jobs will be created. The draft budget has been approved by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and included in the 2012 budget plan. Also, under Directive 2009/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, we also have an obligation to bring maritime accident investigation into the competence of an independent and permanent investigative authority. That is not the case at the moment. The legislative changes will also resolve the inconsistency with this Directive. In conclusion, I would like to ask the honourable members of the Riigikogu to support the draft submitted, thereby taking another step towards making maritime, air and rail transport safer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U440	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U441	Thank you very much. The name of this new structure also includes the word'safety'. There will be no preventive measures in this new centre, will there? Does it still start after it blows?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U442	Yeah, that's right. The entity that is to be set up will not engage in preventive activities. However, indirectly, this may be the case, that if the causes of one or the other accident are clearly identified and the backgrounds are known, this in itself is, to a certain extent, a preventive action to prevent possible new accidents.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U443	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you, Helir-Valdor Seeder! I would like to ask Mr Aasa, Member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, for a joint presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U444	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellow sufferers! The Economic Commission of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 17 October. The discussion was also attended by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, Head Specialist of the Legal Department of MKM Hindrek Allvee and Jens Haug, who is an expert in the Crisis Management Department of MKM. To begin with, before the first reading in this Chamber, some technical and drafting changes have already been made to the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications explained to the Commission that this is a draft law amending three laws aimed at significantly tightening the requirements for investigating accidents and other dangerous incidents. As a major change, the current fragmented structure of the investigation will be replaced by a single and independent structural unit. In addition, the Minister noted that the amendment to the Maritime Safety Act is also due to the need for transposition of the European Union Directive. The Minister confirmed that the adoption of the bill as a law would not entail any additional financial cost. The composition of the necessary officials will be brought together from among the existing officials, while some additional investments will be foreseen. The Minister also confirmed that the adoption of the draft does not entail any additional costs for undertakings active in the field. The Commission discussed the appointment of the Head of the Safety Investigation Centre, which was one of the key issues. The problem is that the draft proposed by the Government states that the Head of the Safety Investigation Centre will be appointed by a minister, whose area of administration would be the main task of the structural unit to be set up. Such involvement raises the question of the certainty of independence. To address the problem, the members of the Commission put forward two proposals that the Commission could consider in the future. Firstly, the right to appoint the Head of the Safety Investigation Centre could be delegated to the Government of the Republic instead of the Minister. According to this, the Head of the Centre would be appointed by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. Or another alternative: it is more important to make a proposal than it is to be appointed, which could also be related to Parliament. Consequently, the committee proposed the possibility that the Head of the Safety Investigation Centre will be appointed by the Government of the Republic on the proposal of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. In conclusion, it was found that this issue would continue to be dealt with more precisely between the first and second readings and that this amendment would be formulated. Finally, the Commission's decisions. First, with the consent of 103 initiators of the draft law amending the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, send the amended explanatory memorandum to the Riigikogu for the first reading. a 26 October. Secondly, to propose to the Assembly that the first reading of draft 103 be completed. Thirdly, it is proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 9 November. All these decisions were made by consensus as proof of the pleasant cooperation between the opposition and the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U445	Thank you, Arto Aas! No questions registered. Nor do we wish to speak, and that is why we will not open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 103. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 6 p.m. on 9 November 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U446	The last item on today's agenda is the first reading of the draft law 105 on plant protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. For the presentation, I would like to invite the Minister for Agriculture, this time, I think, in the duty of the Minister for Agriculture. Please, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U447	Madam President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The development of the Plant Protection Act and related draft law amending other laws is due to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing of plant protection products on the market and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for Community action to achieve the sustainable use of pesticides. The draft has been drawn up taking into account the principle that national law does not contain regulation contrary to European Union law and does not duplicate the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The European Union protects the quality of food through a range of measures to promote food safety, including criteria for the evaluation and approval of active substances in plant protection products and rules for the placing of plant protection products on the market, as well as rules for the use of plant protection products. Europe as a whole is moving towards a safe society, as research and evaluation of the effects of substances in plant protection products on human health and the environment is based on the risk of the new instrument rather than the risk. In turn, it will depend on which plant protection products will be available in the future. In this way, plant protection products which may have harmful effects on humans or the environment will gradually disappear from the market. As a result of the implementation of the Regulation, plant protection products that may cause malformations and malignancies, changes in DNA, fertility and reproductive effects, or which have persistent environmental properties, will not be placed on the market in the future. While several plant protection products are no longer available after a period of ten years as a result of the approval criteria for the substances contained in the plant protection product, the implementation of the theoretical concept will rather widen the number of available plant protection products on the Estonian market. This means that the risk assessment of the plant protection product is carried out in one Member State and that other Member States belonging to the same geographical zone grant or refuse the authorisation of the plant protection product on the basis of the assessment report of the Member State which carried out the risk assessment. Estonia belongs to the northern zone, where there is also Denmark, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland and Sweden, and Norway as a volunteer. The amendment of the Plant Protection Act does not lead to fundamental changes in the Estonian legal system compared to the law in force. Of course, the drafting of the new draft as a whole made it possible to review the current regulation, which has been amended several times, and to update and simplify the wording. This opportunity has also been used. As a new concept, the concept of user of a plant protection product is enshrined in the law. A distinction is made between professional and non-professional users, thereby ensuring legal clarity as to the applicability of the requirements laid down in the law. For example, the labelling of a plant protection product must be respected, which is a general requirement of proper use for everyone. The current rules on plant protection training are complemented in such a way that the obligation to complete training extends not only to distributors but also to professional users and advisors who provide advice on the use of plant protection products. The procedure for issuing, renewing and withdrawing plant protection certificates shall also be specified. The law will be supplemented with regard to the requirements relating to the control of plant protection products. In addition to the requirement to undergo a periodic technical inspection, the professional user shall exercise additional care by regularly checking the performance of the plant protection product in use during the period between the technical inspection. The effectiveness of the control of equipment that is not working properly is reduced and could result in economic damage in terms of loss of harvests and the spending of excessive quantities of plant protection products, as well as environmental risks. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the Ministry of Agriculture must develop an action plan for the sustainable use of plant protection products aimed at reducing the risks to human health and the environment associated with the use of plant protection products and the dependence on the use of plant protection products in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U448	Thank you very much, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder! There are no questions for you. I would like to speak with Andre Sepa, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U449	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Commission, I will make a small report on how this draft law was dealt with in the Committee on Rural Affairs. The draft was discussed by the Commission at its regular meeting on 17 October. During the meeting the draft law was presented by Tambet Sova, Head of Plant Health Department of the Ministry of Agriculture. As the Minister mentioned, this is a relatively technical law based on the directives of the European Union. The Commission received an overview of the use of plant protection products in Estonia and elsewhere. For example, if the leading European countries use more than 10 kg of plant protection products per hectare, then in Estonia they are used a little more than half a kilo of plant protection products per hectare. 222 different names of plant protection products are used in Estonia, for example in Denmark the corresponding number is 462. Members of the Commission also raised the issue of GMOs and their use in this context. It was asked whether the authorisation of GMOs would reduce the use of plant protection products and it was found that the Estonian authorities should continue to address this issue and develop a clear position on the introduction of GMOs. The issue of the packaging of large-scale plant poison concentrates was also raised and it was noted that labelling requirements need to be substantially concentrated. The Commission focused on how to place more responsibility on users of plant protection products. While, so far, the simplest weed control can be done at all places, including public places, such as schools, kindergartens and hospitals, the draft is limited to the number of users concerned: only those who have received a plant protection certificate may use plant poisons. We have been assured that training programmes already exist. This draft law also amends the Advertising Act and the State Fees Act, including the Advertising Act, in particular in accordance with the European Union Directive. The Commission decided to appoint me rapporteur on behalf of the 105 lead committees of the draft law. Item 2: Send the draft law amending the Law on Plant Protection and related other laws to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for first reading on 26 October. Point 3: Propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of draft 105. Point 4: Propose setting the deadline for the submission of 105 draft amendments at 6 p.m. on 2 November 2011. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U450	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U451	Thank you. Good waitress! Did the Commission discuss how to ensure that plant products that have been used excessively for plant protection products are not placed on this market from other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U452	This was not directly discussed in the Commission, but the draft also provides an answer to this. We must start to appreciate and compare much more plant protection products from other Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-26_U453	It's all clear now. No further questions. Thank you, Andre Sepp! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of the Plant Protection Act and the related draft law amending other laws. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 105 amendments on 2 November 2011 at 6 p.m. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you very much to all the participants. Have a good night. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 19.25 p.m.
