ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu and honourable members of the government. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 47 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 54 are missing. The following members of the government will take part in today's Question Time: Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus, Minister for Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler and Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U2	Let's get started. We have seven questions registered today. On the spot, we will allow three additional questions to be put on each subject. Let's start with my colleague, Ester Tuiksoo, who will put a question to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister for the Environment in his duties as Prime Minister! As you expect, my question concerns the establishment of the Haanja Nature Park Protection Code. You answered questions from members of the Riigikogu at length and thoroughly on this issue in August. The answers were correct and certainly derived from the law. I understand that regional policy is not a priority for the current government, but you, I think, will certainly see problems more broadly than simply linked to the environment or even to regional policy alone. How can the creation of a target protection zone also ensure the continuity of local village life and how can the villagers be affected so that they do not want to leave?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U4	Thank you for that question. As far as nature reserves and protected areas are concerned, Estonia's territory is currently protected by around 18%. This figure is quite impressive, which does not, of course, mean that the remaining 82% of the territory has no protection for nature. There is certainly no such situation and it must not occur. But I have already expressed a clear view in the past that the creation of new protected areas or the introduction of additional restrictions must be very carefully considered as to whether this solution is really the best and only possible at a particular location. When we talk about Haanja, this park of nature has been prepared for a very long time. The Haanja Nature Park and the negotiations on it concern a total of some 1,400 owners. This number is very large. To date, a compromise has not been found with four private owners. I've met all of them, and as I've said from this remote control, humanly speaking, I fully understand their concerns. But it is also true that when it comes to a unique natural value that needs protection, it can and must be protected where that natural value is located. A similar example is the Old Town of Tallinn, just near here. The Old Town of Tallinn is unique and we can protect it in its existing form and in its existing place. The same applies to natural values and habitats.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U5	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of the Environment, Have you discussed in your administration whether you have state land as a substitute, whether you are delaying the establishment of a target protection zone, or if there is another option that would ease the reduction of property rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U7	Thank you. The current legal space, as you all know, does not allow such an exchange of lands. When we are talking about restricting activity in forest land, the current rural development plan provides for Natura private forest support. If the activity is limited, there is also a right to claim compensation, which should alleviate the situation as a result of the work that has not been carried out. Personally, I am of the opinion that if we are talking about a destination protection zone, there would be a reason to review the current aid rate of EUR 109 and 93 cents per hectare. In this form, this rate cannot be easily met by all private forest owners. At the moment, this is the rate and this is the result of the rural development plan. This issue must be negotiated with the Minister for Agriculture, whose responsibility it is. But I understand the dissatisfaction with the size of this support, because the restrictions are often quite keen on people who have private forests in Natura areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U8	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of the Environment, You are moving in the right direction in your answers. I would like to ask you whether you are ready to meet with the Minister for Agriculture in the near future and what would be the aid per hectare that you think might compensate owners for the restrictions on the target zone? Do you know how much the owners would like to receive per hectare?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U10	Thank you. I meet with the Minister for Agriculture quite often, and I intend to do so in the near future. This is one of the things that we will definitely be stopping on in the near future. I'm more careful at the moment with the development of specific figures, as you can see. Yes, I know of the desires that the owners of the Lambs you mentioned, for example, have. Of course, there are still financial limits ahead, and this growth cannot be very massive. I consider it reasonable that this rate should be reviewed, but I do not want to create unfounded expectations and I consider it appropriate to negotiate this matter with the Minister for Agriculture, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, I promise, exceptionally, to ask four questions registered on the spot. Starts with colleague Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! I am surprised that you have not yet spoken to the Minister for Agriculture on this subject, although I believe that the rural development documents and the new development plan are already in the final stages of development. So I want you to know that I'm confused about this. The second part of the question is as follows. The people of Haanja have visited the Committee on Rural Affairs several times. I have a thick file of correspondence with them. This debate has been going on for a very long time. Can you publicly say here today when, Madam Minister, you will solve this question? It seems to me that the country of Estonia does not want to take account of the interests of the people anywhere. Can you tell me a date, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U13	Thank you. I, in turn, am amazed. You probably didn't exactly listen to what I said to the previous question. I told you these meetings were going on all the time. As you mentioned in your question, this issue has not come up in the last few weeks or even in the last few months. The preparation of the new conservation code of Haanja Nature Park began in 2006. This is certainly not the subject of the last few weeks or days, and these discussions have also taken place in the past. Once again, the Haanja Nature Park has some 1,400 owners who have been subdued and agreed upon. So it is not correct to claim that this whole company considers the proposed protection rule unreasonable. Looking for a compromise with four people. When and when will we reach a compromise? I am not prepared to say any particular date or wish to do so, because, as I said when I met these people, we are close to the end of the negotiations when all possible options have been considered. Understandably, this issue is quite sensitive and requires a very thorough approach. I don't have to make any sense or go after a date at any cost. Compromise has been sought. The meetings took place only recently. I say once again: most people in this region now think that the proposed solution is acceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U14	Please, Mr Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U15	Thank you. Minister for the Environment in his duties as Prime Minister. My question, however, is about the environment. Recently, the press has come up with an issue relating to one of the controversial, problematic and environmentally very serious minerals. It is from a dictathyonemak that has been mined in Estonia and which has also been mined in Sweden. But both there and here, the mining process has been completed. How to comment on the status of the dictatorial mother, starting with the VKG news and ending with the green action?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U16	Thank you. Indeed, this topic directly ties in with the nature conservation issue under discussion. First of all, I would like to thank both the Estonian Society for Nature Conservation and the Green Movement, who have publicly supported my position on phosphorite mining in recent weeks. Phosphoritis is not minable in Estonia. This decision was made by the State years ago. The justification is directly linked to the threat to the living environment of the people of Virumaa, which could arise from the extraction of phosphorite. We are talking about possible air pollution, but we are also talking about the risks associated with surface water and groundwater. These are issues that cannot and must not be risked. My position has been that phosphorus is not minable in Estonia since it came to the agenda. We cannot, must not and will not endanger the living environment of local people in any way. That is actually the point. Phosphorite is not extracted in Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U17	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U18	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue on the issue of Rein Aidma, i.e. I will talk about Lääne-Virumaa and Rägavere municipality. I read that on 16 November a meeting took place in Rägavere, where representatives of the Viru Chemistry Group, Kalev Kallemets, member of the Reform Party, and Jaanus Purga, Director of Development, met with the people and discussed studies on the possibility of phosphorite mining. Can you tell me why a private company should spend money to investigate what the Ministry of the Environment will not allow it to do later? Perhaps what's the point of a company exploring the possibility of mining if it doesn't allow a reformist environmental minister to mine later?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U19	Thank you for that question. Obviously, it is quite appropriate and proper to explain the course of the matter again and to take care of such matters. It shall also not be possible to carry out investigations on the spot unless authorised. I have been on my own initiative to meet local authorities, including the leader of the municipality. The conduct of general geological surveys is also an issue that cannot be moved forward, as it is very clear that it is not accepted by the local community. There's no inconclusiveity here. I found out about that meeting afterwards. I must say that representatives of the Ministry of the Environment have not been invited to these public meetings organised by the company, so we have not been able to participate in them. But I know that a few days later, villages nearby also had such discussions. I have forwarded the Minister for the Environment's written statement. So they all know that. This position is the same as I repeated when I answered Rein Aidma's question: phosphorus is not extracted in Estonia. As far as research is concerned, I have stressed to the local people that general geological research is also possible only if the local authority, or local people, considers it necessary and desirable. I don't see it right now. I see the local people are scared. To be honest, I understand their hesitations and fears. So there is no authorisation for studies, and they cannot be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U20	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to the formation of Haanja and Tallike's target protection zone. First of all, thank you for such long and understanding business! When we talk about compensatory mechanisms, we know that the current rates and compensations come from the Structural Funds and will last until 2013. No one knows what compensation rates will be in 2014, whether compensation will come from the European Structural Funds or whether the country will have to make these payments itself. The state budget is what it is. You brought a comparison to the Old Town of Tallinn. Tallinn Old Town is a value that we cannot order again. Fortunately, nature has the opportunity to accept our orders. Would it not be possible to create such values in the form of a state forest in 50 years' time and would it not be necessary to review all these possibilities now to use the state forest instead of restricting private forests?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U22	Thank you. You came back to the old town example. When we think about Tallinn's unique old town, the same way is that in the old town it has been protected, first it has been taken as a whole and, second, no distinction is made on the basis of ownership. We cannot imagine giving permission to a private owner whose building is located in the Old Town, for example, to set up a skyscraper, because it may seem useful purely materially, commercially. Our old city is unique and valuable, especially because it remains complete, these values have been protected and kept comprehensive, regardless of ownership. Why, then, should we approach nature in a different way? When it comes to natural value, which is unique, and when, for example, one or another habitat type is disappearing, we cannot tell the difference and say that, in the case of a private owner, we are turning a blind eye and pretending that it is not of value and giving the right to cut down the forest. You just can't give me that chance. When we talk specifically about the Tallikes, this habitat, which heats up a lot of passion there, is precisely the old forest of nature. Obviously, it is quite easy to understand that the greatest threat to the old forest is still, and precisely, forest cutting. That's what the argument is about. Have we also sought and seen ways to add the state forest, the old forest of nature on the state land, to this target protection zone? Yeah, we'll see, and that's the plan, but once again I'll tell you that value can be protected where it is. Just as natural value must be protected on a country's territory, the same protection must be guaranteed wherever that value is located. If this value is located on private land, protection must also be guaranteed on private land.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U23	Thank you, Madam Secretary of the Environment. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U24	The next question is for Mr Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, Mr Tarmo Tammelt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Good regional minister! As we know, county elders are appointed in accordance with the conditions agreed by the coalition. But there is also one point in this procedure that should ask for the opinion of the local government leaders. Do you not think that this point has now lost its meaning and may be offensive to the local government leaders, because no one really takes their opinion into account? Would it not be practical and rational to exclude this point from this procedure, and may the local government leaders read in the newspaper that was appointed governor of the land?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U26	Thank you. The current procedure for the appointment of a county elder is laid down in the Government of the Republic Act. As it stands, it was adopted by another government coalition in April 2006. That's how it worked once. It also provides for seeking the opinion of the local government leaders. I think it is a good idea to know this opinion, and regardless of the decision that the government will finally make, it will certainly have an impact. The Act states that the opinion of the heads of government will be forwarded in writing to the Government of the Republic, that the members of the government will examine this opinion and will be able to make their own decision on the basis of it. It is a matter of course whether the voting results or choices of the representatives of the local governments are always objective, whether they are based solely on whether or not they consider that the mayor candidate can do his job well. It is no secret that many local government leaders also discuss the candidate with each other on the basis of their familiarity and membership and make decisions based on it, not only on objective circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U27	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Then I ask, Mr Minister, what position did you receive from the heads of government in Läänemaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U29	We've got a neutral position on the mayor's candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U30	We have quite a number of locally registered issues. If ladies and gentlemen who have asked pre-registered questions do not object, I can give them all a chance, if they object, to ask only two questions. Let's get started. My colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister, The Prime Minister was asked the same question a few days ago. The answer we received was mainly that it was the task of the county elders to deal with the elections alone and to keep themselves in the picture before the elections. Turns out it's like running a county is second-rate. But here's what I'm gonna ask you. If the parish elders are asked for an opinion and they say it, but the government doesn't draw any conclusions from it, as you said, the members of the government simply get to know it because they need to know it, and the mayor is appointed in a way that is politically correct, then why are these surveys even being conducted? What do you think if we didn't have political country elders, but the county elders were specialists in their field, would a sudden peripheralisation stop and more jobs come?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U32	First of all, I will correct what you said, as if the Prime Minister had said that the main activity of the county elders was to conduct elections. I read last week's briefing verbatim today, just in case, and I know that the Prime Minister said the exact opposite. But as for the country elders, whether they should be specialists, I think that the county elders are generally good specialists, they are experts and they can do their job very well. You're somehow trying to contrast the fact that there are either political or non-political county elders. I did some statistics, I looked at the last ten years, although these trends have not changed much since before. Over the last ten years, 44 rural elders have been in employment in 15 counties. How can policy be assessed? I think we can judge this by whether a person has been a member of a political party and has been a candidate for election. Of these 44 (Mäesalu is 45.) is not a party or is not a candidate for election. I tell you their names: Eha Pärn, Kalle Küttis, Jaanus Sahk and Georg Trašanov. County elders as individuals have certainly been politically active, they have actively defined their worldview, but I think that most of them have also been very good specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U33	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Regional Affairs! You have a bill put into work that stipulates that people from the police, border guards and the Rescue Board will be appointed in a centralised manner. Could the future be such that, for example, the Secretary of State is also going to appoint county elders, so that they should not be politicised so strongly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U35	I agree with the Prime Minister not to politicise the county elders. If we are talking about politicisation at all, then, looking back in history, I have hesitated about cases of this kind, when a man who worked as a rural governor belonged to a political party, but when, for example, the Centre Party came to power, a person suddenly decided for incomprehensible reasons to leave his former party and join the Central Party while continuing as a rural leader. We need to analyse such examples seriously and ask ourselves whether or not there is politicisation here. The fact that people belong to a party is natural. I think it's good if they do it in public. There have also been a number of county elders who have run for election without saying their political views before. I would like to add that there is a lot of hypocrisy on this subject at all. For example, your good colleague Neeme the Great is sitting here. Last week, I heard with surprise from the media that he didn't like the current assignment procedure. But when he applied as an active social democrat and became a county elder with the active support of the Social Democrats in 2008 by the government's decision, this time he was very well suited and suited even when he left his post half the term of office to take up work in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, This subject is probably very interesting. The last questioner is Neeme the Great. Let's get back to the country elders. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U37	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I disagree with you completely that it is not as if the governors are being politicised. On the contrary, rural elders will certainly be politicised. It is not a pure coincidence that the last appointed county elders have accidentally belonged to either the Reform Party or the Fatherland and Res Publica Association. But we do know that the coalition has divided the position of Ida-Viru County Elder. Maybe you'll tell me which party is going to be the governor of East Viru?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U38	Thank you. I have not discussed this subject. Ida-Viru County Elder still has a pretty long term. The government is known to appoint rural elders for five years. I have not really discussed this issue with other members of the government or with coalition partners. I have not discussed whether the mayor wishes to continue after the end of his term of office. There hasn't been any other candidates.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U39	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U40	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! I rode my bike to Hiiumaa in the spring. There were also political questions, and one of them was the matter of a rural elder at the time. They said the mayor would change right away, and then life would get better. It's gonna be December, but it's still gonna be the same mayor. Will this mayor be replaced? What are the plans of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U41	Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, repeat your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U42	Can I repeat the question? I couldn't hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U43	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to ask again! In the spring, I circled Hiiumaa. At meetings with local opinion leaders, one topic was the matter of the mayor. They said the mayor's changing, and then life gets better. But nothing has changed, although December is almost at hand. Is the government going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U44	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U45	Thank you. In Hiiumaa, it is indeed a difficult situation in this respect that the current governor is in a very difficult business relationship with local government leaders and business representatives. He doesn't have a good deal of cooperation with them. This has been confirmed by several parties. I have given him the task of resolving these problems, because despite personal sympathies and antipathy, a working mood and atmosphere must be maintained. The mayor must be able to cooperate with the various parties involved. Its role is in many ways to be such a mediator on the ground for local government leaders and public authorities, entrepreneurs and public authorities. If the mayor fails to do this work, then it is certainly a matter of continuing in his office. But right now, I've given him the task of resolving this issue. I hope he's okay. If he fails, other measures must be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U46	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! During the last few years, quite a lot of public services have moved from counties to Tallinn, and they have also left the administrative area of rural governments. In 2012, is there a clear plan to restructure something in rural governments, to renew or refresh the duties of rural elders?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U47	First of all, while I am a regional minister, the duties of rural governments have not been reduced. It's a mistake to say that it's like they're always taking something away. Unfortunately, this has also been repeated several times in this Chamber. We have a very serious analysis of family doctors' competitions. If the rest of the family doctor service is primarily organised by the Ministry of Social Affairs, does it make sense to keep such a narrow section separate, especially when the conditions are determined by another institution? Rural governments also have to collect land after-tax. We have not discussed this more broadly, but I think it might be worth considering that financial transactions of this kind could take place somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U48	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U49	Thank you. The question is, what about the apolitisation in Tallinn as a municipality. Aren't the district elders a small model of what the country is like? Can you tell me if there is an apolitical district manager in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U50	The Tallinn district elders are certainly not apolitical. There are also three former district elders in Tallinn. These practices vary from place to place. However, as regards the political or apolitical nature of the local government leaders, I will give an example from the same region of Läänemaa, which has now been discussed so much. After all, many mayors are politically involved. The local governments assessed the county elders, and one of the topics for discussion was whether the candidate was from Läänemaa or not. I looked for interest: there are 12 municipalities in Läänemaa and half of the 12 rural municipalities or mayors have taken up work in the same way in Läänemaa; they did not live there before.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U51	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Neeme Suur, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking you not to accuse me of hypocrisy. I have not criticised the process, but the practice in which it turns out that only a member of a particular coalition party will be appointed to the position of governor of the country. In the case of Läänemaa, for example, it would probably have been easier to find local IRL members that were very suitable for the country. But it was just a line on the previous remark. Now the question. The duties of a county governor are derived from the Law of the Government of the Republic. The coordination of cooperation between public authorities and local authorities is one of the main tasks set out there. In your current state, do you find that the mayor is capable of fulfilling this task under the Law of the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U53	Like I said, it's the job of a county manager to be a middleman and coordinate cooperation. He's got to do it for real. He does not have to have a pleasant relationship with the local governments, but there must be a working atmosphere. We can give many examples here: the wishes of local authorities to organise public transport and to communicate with the Road Administration, to draw up road plans for public roads and to communicate with local authorities on this issue. There are plenty of examples of this kind of good cooperation. But as for the beginning of your question, good Neeme, you too became a governor of a certain coalition party. It is not worth denying that this was the case, although you certainly read that you were competent in your work and did so well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U54	Thank you very much, Minister for Regional Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U55	The next question is from my colleague, Helmen Hunt, to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! My question concerns rehabilitation services, their availability and quality. I believe that you agree that it is often very important for young people, especially those in need of such a service, to receive a service quickly. Unfortunately, there is currently a situation where a rehabilitation plan is drawn up and a service is expected, but often this service may not be available for one year. Does the Ministry have an analysis or an overview of what services need to be developed and financed, and if so, how long? As far as the 2012 state budget is concerned, there are no additional resources available for this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U57	Thank you for your question. The question is very topical. We are, of course, always looking at the state of rehabilitation services, how many people receive this service. As of June, more than 120,000 people, even nearly 130,000, had a disability. Every year 15 to 16%, or 18000 people, apply for rehabilitation. The gap between the number of people who formalised the disability and the number of applicants for rehabilitation services is significant. It was very important to me that we did not have to reduce the volume of rehabilitation services in the years 2009 and 2010. We were able to maintain the financial capacity of rehabilitation services and this was extremely important. But the real question is, can we do better? Yes, it can, there's a short answer. We offer the so-called ex-ante evaluation mechanism with the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People for next year, precisely because of the need for service. It is currently in work and we are negotiating with the various parties to get it to the details. The aim should be to give priority to rehabilitation services to those who really need it. Those who may need it less or need another service, such as rehabilitation, should be directed towards the health care system. An ex-ante assessment would be carried out before a rehabilitation plan was drawn up and then an adequate rehabilitation plan could be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U58	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U59	Thank you. My second question concerns quality. It is known that, for example, there are several years in the queue for a study or profession. How often will the quality of the service be assessed and evaluated?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U60	Thank you. A good questioner in the sector, so-called long inside, certainly knows these concerns very accurately. In that sense, it is good to reason. Quality is at least as important to us as availability. The good questioner certainly knows that we are currently in the process of transition to a quality management certificate or quality management standard. It is clear that we cannot make the 'quality standard' apply to everyone on one date; we must give a transitional period. The question now is that we need to reach an agreement with Parliament when discussing the new Social Welfare Act, what is the transition period for rehabilitation service providers to meet quality standards, the quality guide we have proposed. I'm sure this will be an exciting debate. In order to be able to provide a service from a single date only for providers of rehabilitation services that meet the requirements of the quality standard, a reasonable transitional period must also be provided so that people are not left without rehabilitation services. Of course, the content is also very important. Work is going on for this, and the goal is all right.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U61	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U62	Thank you. My last question is this. County visits have often shown that it is especially for children living in children's institutions that there is little money available to guarantee the full service. The institution only has money to cover part of the special needs arising from the disability.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U63	Thank you. We changed some rehabilitation arrangements in 2009. A good questioner will remember that we made this arrangement more flexible. We tried very clearly to keep the limit for the physical therapist and to draw up a plan. For other services, particularly logopaedic, psychologist, activity rape or social worker services, we behaved in a relatively flexible way so that during the planning process we could decide which services to offer to the person's needs. But the truth is that, despite increasing flexibility, we have a queue and it will undoubtedly not decrease overnight. The first step to reduce this is certainly an 'ex-ante assessment', which would first get those who need it most, and they would get it on a need-based and complex basis. Perhaps a good questioner has also heard of a programme-based approach. Together with an ex-ante evaluation and the preparation of a rehabilitation plan, we want to take as a basis a complex approach, so if a person needs rehabilitation, he gets it from the health side, and if he needs the services of a logopaed or an action rape, then the social side comes with rehabilitation. Children make the same sense. There's no big difference between children and adults here. We need to screen those who need it most during the ex-ante evaluation. Hopefully, more people will also get the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U64	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Rehabilitation plans are being prepared for a long time, but we know that they are not being fully implemented because there is simply no money. Have you suddenly discussed that maybe we should review the principles of rehabilitation plans? Why do we make them so voluminous and wide-ranging when we know that we have no money to implement them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U66	Thank you. If a good questioner had listened a little more closely, he'd know that's what we're offering. We are not saying that we are going to redefine the rehabilitation plan as a whole, but we are saying that we are going to make an ex-ante assessment in order not to start drawing up a rehabilitation plan for those who may not need it. Secondly, if we are going to draw up a rehabilitation plan, it must be a complex service, in other words, services must be taken from a number of areas. Currently, rehabilitation services are largely related to physical therapy, rehabilitation and the health sector. So one way is to look at the health side. If we manage to increase the volume of rehabilitation, the pressure to receive rehabilitation services as a social service will certainly be significantly reduced. If you look at the current rehabilitation plans, you can see that there is a lot of physical therapy. Those three whales or principles, the ex-ante assessment, the quality management of the facilities and the programme-based approach, should be the basis for us to improve the organisation of rehabilitation. Once this systemic side has been fixed, we can see if we have to put more money or whether we can arrange this between sectors so that everyone who needs this service can get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U67	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U68	The next question is from colleague Inara Luigas to Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We know that next year, funds from the sickness fund and the unemployment fund will be consolidated with the Treasury's reserve in order to manage the government's cash flow more efficiently and to increase liquidity. There will be a so-called liquidity reserve. According to the draft, the Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance now manages the cash flows of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund together with the cash flow of the state budget. The government has said honestly with this bill that in order not to go to the credit market and take out a high-risk loan or any loan at all, the Government of the Republic will use the financial resources of the Treasury on a group account. My question: how do you assess this as a member of the government and Minister of Social Affairs, and what risks do you see in using a group account?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U70	Thank you for your question. This issue has been discussed for a very long time in this Chamber, and the Minister of Finance has also responded to it for a very long time. For me, it is extremely important that the decision-making of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the Health Insurance Fund is not reduced. With these proposed amendments, this decision-making process will not be diminished. For me, it is important that if the sickness fund or the unemployment fund needs funds as social security funds, these funds are firmly guaranteed. As I understand the negotiations between the Treasury and both social security funds, these funds are guaranteed. Whether, for example, the funds of the unemployment fund are on the BNP Paribas International Group Account or on the Treasury Group Account, it does not matter which one manages them daily. Even if the resources of the unemployment fund are on the account of BNP Paribas, it does not mean that the unemployment fund monitors every day what BNP Paribas does to them. Figuratively speaking, it is the same with the Treasury. For me, the very big plus is that, as the Ministry of Finance has calculated, it could save Estonian state 24 to 25 million euros as interest. That's a lot of money. If we look at how much money we spend to pay out various grants, the EUR 24 to 25 million that could be saved is a very, very large amount and maybe more services could be offered to the unemployed. So there's a lot of pros here. The minus side must be negotiated within the framework of a specific contract and the risks must be mitigated. However, I do not see the very high risks that the unemployment fund or the health insurance fund should be concerned about the fate of its money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U71	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U72	Thank you, Mr President. I'll keep asking. If the Treasury starts managing all these reserves in a group account, but there is a budget shortage and these funds are being used, the state will have a situation where the liquidity reserve is running out, but the sickness fund and the unemployment fund also need to use this money, so how does the state guarantee that the money is available? Doesn't it happen that once the money is gone and the reserves are spent, the government will decide instead to change the laws on the sickness fund and the unemployment fund so that there is less demand for money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U73	Thank you. This is certainly a completely unjustified fear. If, for example, we take pension insurance, the first pillar of pension insurance is in the 'continuous deficit' and this deficit is covered by current decision-making. If necessary, the Treasury will take money from a reserve if necessary, a loan shall be made for it, if necessary, on the current account. The state has opportunities to guarantee the resources of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund, so-called disbursements, I dare say this, much more than maybe the private banks managing the funds of the unemployment fund now. The funds of the Health Insurance Fund have been in the hands of the Treasury for long, long years. There is a contract between the Treasury and the Health Insurance Fund. For the Health Insurance Fund, the situation remains similar to the current situation, which means that the real resources of the Health Insurance Fund are already in the Treasury. I really don't see anything to worry about. Then there should be some problems with the liquidity of the Estonian state as a whole, then there should be problems with the payment of pensions and benefits or other payments. I do not see the danger of the Estonian state having liquidity problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U74	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If these risks do not arise again, then in fact, everything will be fine if improvements are also made in the savings contract. Are you referring to some of the regulations that give the health insurance fund the assurance that liquidity will be secured?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U76	Thank you. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act gives the main assurance. This assurance is expressed by the decision-making power of the Council, the decision-making process for the approval of the list of health services. It's a legally guaranteed fortress. Similarly, unemployment insurance is a law for an unemployment fund. These are 'guarantees' that give the unemployment fund and the sickness fund the opportunity to state that, if they need funds, they can use these funds. I really do not see much additional need here to regulate it yet. As far as the savings contract is concerned, the savings agreement is intended to specify the technical details, specify how money moves from the account to the account, how much interest the unemployment fund and the sickness fund earns on their investments and what other technical details are. So don't worry. As regards the use of reserves, no one has come to amend the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act or the Unemployment Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U77	Please, a matter registered on the ground, Mr Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Your confidence that the Health Insurance Fund reserves will be preserved is enviable. Maybe you know something we don't. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, speaking in this hall, explained to us that the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund are being consolidated into the Treasury in order not to borrow from the credit market. If a loan is taken out of the credit market, and is not immediately put to anger, it is only used in case of urgent need, exactly the same is done with the sickness fund's reserve, which is not used without necessity. This is where I read that there is a certain risk. Has the Minister of Finance given you any additional guarantees in any cabinet that we have not been informed about?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U79	Thank you. The Minister of Finance doesn't have to give me that extra guarantee. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act clearly states the decision-making powers of the Health Insurance Fund, including the decision-making powers of the Supervisory Board. Similarly, we constantly monitor the amount of health insurance tax and the level of reserves. The Health Insurance Board has an ongoing supervisory role and the right to require supervision. I really don't see any problem here. Health Insurance Fund funds have been in the hands of the Treasury for several years. The dispute between the Treasury and the Health Insurance Fund or between the Treasury and the Unemployment Insurance Fund can be dealt with as to the level of return on these funds for both cashiers. This is definitely a place to negotiate. However, as far as the use of reserves is concerned, how many additional reserves will be used in one year or two, or how many additional reserves will be allocated, these decisions can only be taken by the Health Insurance Board. No one has changed that law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U80	Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U81	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have learned from the press that the unemployment fund ordered a comprehensive opinion from a very prestigious law firm on the consolidation of reserves and, at least on the basis of press statements, there is no risk either to reserves or to the functioning of the unemployment fund. Have you seen this analysis and can you confirm that this study or the opinion ordered by the unemployment fund itself claims that the state is on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U82	Thank you. I've seen this analysis, and I've read it. This analysis has also been presented by the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. This includes a small part of this whole topic. Of course, it is important to give people the confidence that the funds that have accumulated for the needs of the so-called unemployment fund can be used to help the unemployed and can also be made to earn income. It makes perfect sense that if you build up any reserves, you put these reserves in a way that makes a profit. At the same time, these reserves must not be put at great risk; the allocation of reserves must be as secure as possible. When comparing, for example, the performance of the unemployment fund and the Treasury, one small argument is that the Treasury is currently rating AA+, the unemployment fund is rating A. So the Treasury rating is better in terms of the allocation of reserves. In managing these reserves, the Treasury, as a provider of unemployment funds, could have a small 'additional' bonus side. Once again, the analysis confirms that certainty is guaranteed, demonstrated by day-to-day operation, day-to-day settlement. Of course, the argument that we are able to save millions of euros for Estonian taxpayers is also a very important one.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U83	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U84	I am, of course, very sorry that the Minister for Social Affairs even accepted this proposal. I'm asking more generally, because Bare still hasn't figured out what the debate is about. Why must the Ministry of Finance have power over social security funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U85	Thanks, Eiki! We can discuss the allocation of reserves for a long time after Question Time. After all, what we are talking about is that the resources of the unemployment fund, which have been collected as reserves, need to be placed somewhere to make a profit. We both understand that the same way. To earn production, you can go to private banks on the free market or go to the Treasury. It is suggested that we go to the Treasury, keep these reserves with the Treasury and earn a return on them. That's what the deposit agreement deals with. There is nothing extraordinarily extraordinary about the deposit of the Unemployment Insurance Fund's funds with the Treasury. These are different concepts. I say that the Treasury is a safe place to keep these funds and also to earn revenue. There is no mention of why unemployment funds should necessarily be held by the state. That's the principle of rationality. The country is also a party to the unemployment fund, just as the social partners are. Of course, the risks must be minimized as much as possible, but here I see no risk to the money of the unemployment fund or the insurance companies, the money of employers and workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U86	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Question time's over. I apologise to those who have not been able to ask their question. Thank you very much to all the questioners. Thank you very much to all respondents. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U87	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 9th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U88	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I and 12 other members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip concerning the limitation of the duties of the country elders and the politicisation of the country elders. According to the law, the county governor represents the interests of the state and takes care of the whole and balanced development of the county. The mayor is clearly a representative of the state, not of the power parties. In the last two years, the Government of the Republic has started very quickly to disregard this principle. Today, a situation has been created in which the Ministers of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party Government Union are not governed by law, but by the organisation of local elections in 2013, appointing politicians from their own party. Between 2009 and 2011, the government has appointed 12 rural elders who belong to either the Reform Party or the Fatherland and Res Publica Association. However, these activities do not in any way support the requirement for comprehensive and balanced development laid down by law. In this regard, we have five questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U89	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U90	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and eight other colleagues, I will address the inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The topic is Estonia's trade balance. After hearing from the Prime Minister a few days ago the sentence that the Estonian economy is a typical economy of the exporting country, I asked him a question based on the monograph 'Estonian agriculture in the 20th century'. Its fourth volume contains data that, after regaining independence until 2009, Estonia's external trade balance was negative with EEK 366,4 billion. The Prime Minister replied that this argument was not appropriate. He once again advised me to turn to statistics to make sure that this argument was wrong. I listened and turned to the statistics again. Our Statistical Office provides 15 billion euros for the balance sheet minus in the respective tables from 1993 to this year. If inflation and everything else are taken into account, the minus will be about 366 billion kroons. So we have the following questions. Is Statistics Estonia's data correct? Is it true that Estonia's foreign trade has been in decline since 1993? We would like to hear the Prime Minister's comment on his statement on 15 October that our economy is an export economy, although our exports and imports are less than four budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U91	Thank you. On behalf of the Governing Board, I have received two inquiries. If inquiries comply with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Now the messages. First, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the procedure of the Government of the Republic. A draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Tax Act and the Road Traffic Act, which was initiated on 21 November, has appointed the Economic Commission as the commission. Secondly, this Monday the members of the Riigikogu formed the Peipsivere Support Group and the Jõgeva-Tartumaa Envoy Group. Ladies and gentlemen, Please, let's do the presence check! 85 delegates registered as present, 16 missing. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention. Let's clarify the agenda. In the debate on the 13th item on today's agenda, the Riigikogu's decision to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 125 at first reading, the Minister of Finance, Jürgen, will make a presentation of the Government of the Republic in place of the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. In today's discussion on item 14, the draft law amending the law on membership of the International Monetary Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading 132, and in the discussion on item 15, the Riigikogu's decision 'Getting the Republic of Estonia to increase its quota in the International Monetary Fund', Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, will also make a presentation of the Government of the Republic at first reading. Presentations by Mr Aivar Sõerd, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will be submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, the discussion of the first reading of the draft law amending § 4 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group was interrupted. We were able to hear the presentation of the representative of the initiators, a member of the Riigikogu, Kadri Samson. I'm gonna ask Kadri Samson to speak to you because there are a lot of questions. Let's get started. The first question is from my colleague Erki Arrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Some time ago Professor Marju Lauristin said such words in this hall: 'Our middle class is poorer and less stable than the middle class of other countries. This makes it very easy to fall out of a stable state typical of the middle class. " In your speech, you said that graduated income tax is a win-win for everyone. My question is this: if you tax doctors, senior nurses, university lecturers, etc. with an extra fee, why are you hitting the next axe to the emergence of our middle class?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U94	Wait a minute! Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U95	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer now!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U96	There was only one title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U97	Thank you, Madam President. I have a procedural question. I noticed that when you announced the replacement of the waitress, you announced that Ligit would be replacing Pevkur in the debate on the 125th and 133rd drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U98	132nd draft, 132nd and 133rd draft, as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U99	Thank you to Erki Arrow for a good question. Indeed, I agree with Professor Marju Lauristin that our middle class is too thin and too poor. Because, according to the classical definition, teachers, medical workers, rescuers and policemen are also part of the middle class in Estonia, for example, self-employed people who give themselves jobs. Indeed, they are too poor. So, let us be honest, the higher tax rate we have proposed will in no way touch teachers in the coming years. But what about the victory of the wealthier? For example, that your children are perhaps going to receive more decent school meals than is currently available for 78 cents, not only in primary school as it is now, but also in upper secondary school. This will provide additional resources for teachers to receive a decent salary in any ordinary school. We know that the state says that there is no money to pay teachers a higher salary. On the other hand, of course our approach is that some indirect taxes should be lowered. For example, if it is now said that a very rapid increase in the price of indoor heating or the price increase resulting from the opening of the electricity market from 2013 is inevitable, then in fact, the state has several levers in its hands how, by reducing excise duties or VAT, such compulsory expenditure could be reduced. So, if, on the one hand, in the case of progressive income tax, high-wage earners have to pay a 12% higher tax on income above a certain level, then on the other hand, they will get much more back from the public goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U100	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U101	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I have this question: why have you made your draft in such a way that you will amend the current income tax law by arbitrarily placing these levels in it, whereas according to your draft, the tax rate depends on whether the income is lower or higher than EUR 15972 per year? The current Income Tax Act does not make any difference as to whether the beneficiary's annual income, whether it is a salary or a special benefit, is 19000 or 10000 or 30000, because we have the principle of proportional taxation. Similarly, the current law on the concept of taxable income provides that income is to be calculated before deduction. Why haven't you made a separate law, why do you arbitrarily put these steps into this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U102	Thank you for your question. Of course, we are changing the principles of personal taxation with this bill. This is the purpose of the draft, which aims to move from the current one-sided taxation to graduated income tax, where higher income is taxed at a higher level of taxation. You have opened this dispute that taxable income and gross wages are not the same. Indeed, in our explanatory memorandum, we are talking about gross wages. It is probably appropriate to explain here why taxable income is lower than gross wages. According to our draft, taxable income is the amount that remains when the gross wages are deducted from the tax exemptions. Since most people have joined the second pension pillar, the tax exemptions are higher, but they will certainly also deduct the tax-free minimum and compulsory insurance premiums before. If there are several children in the family, the income tax exemption from the second, third, etc. will also be deducted. If a home loan has been taken, it will also be taken into account. So the answer to the question why we are amending the existing law is this: because we think that the existing tax system needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U103	Please, Mr. Taavi in the garment!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U104	Thank you. I, too, share this criticism that, by changing only one number in the draft, you are actually going against the logic of all this law, and that is why there is total chaos in tax accounting. But that's it. I have a very simple question. You have said in the explanatory memorandum that this draft would result in more than EUR 180 million in public funding. Have you learned by now that the actual receipts are about three times smaller?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U105	Thank you. I have here the position of the Ministry of Finance on the draft law, which states that this draft is not supported, firstly because the programme of the Government Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Reform Party provides for the continuation of a simple, business-friendly and uniform personal income tax system and excludes the introduction of a graduated income tax system. Perhaps the reason why the Ministry of Finance does not support this bill is that this point is not included in the agreement of the power union. Secondly, it is said that there is a point in the agreement on the power union that income tax will be reduced in 2015. The Ministry of Finance does not question the calculation in its official letter. When it comes to the fact that the Ministry of Finance is more sceptical about the proceeds, the Minister of Finance's view is likely to be reflected here too that one important tax exemption, the tax exemption on domestic borrowing rates, will be for the wealthiest people. The data available to us, the opposition party, concerned gross income, without knowing who, and to what extent, is subject to tax exemptions. So it may be that, in some respects, the most people who will ever pay more due to a higher level of income tax will benefit from the tax exemption on domestic borrowing. However, as far as turning the law on the head of the law is concerned, it is not here that several laws have been passed in the Riigikogu, the actual implementation of which takes place by means of implementing acts. As with many other laws that have been passed in the Riigikogu, specific implementing acts need to be developed in the Ministry. I believe that there is sufficient competence in the Ministry of Finance to establish a regulation that would allow the introduction of graduated income tax in Estonia. I was pleased to see a lively debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Even Aivar Sõerd offered a helping hand to clarify a number of details that he felt were not sufficiently precise. This is certainly one reason why this draft law should not be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U106	Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Kadri Samson! Yesterday, when you started introducing this bill, you referred to Adam Smith in the introduction and said that he, as the father of liberalism, was actually the father of progressive income tax. I don't think you've read Adam Smith yourself, because if you had, you'd understand that his position can also be interpreted as being the father of the Estonian Income Tax Act. This means that he said that people who earn more will pay more, but they will do so even if the tax system is proportionate, as it is in Estonia. However, Karl Marx strongly advocated progressive income tax. I'd be a little more careful if I were you. Just knowing that he liked something very much would make me careful. But my question is this: can you name a serious economist who has been able to prove that progressive income tax accelerates economic growth? Don't mention Janno Reiljan or Marika Tuusi or anyone like that, call it a serious economist.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U108	Thank you, Mr. Randpere. You've had your college degree since you had to read Marx. I wouldn't have gotten my degree from the University of London without reading Adam Smith. By quoting to you the book The Riche of the Nations, I quoted the part where Adam Smith says it's only fair when people with higher incomes contribute more. This idea has been further developed over the centuries by several economists, also in the key to the fact that people with greater wealth also enjoy a greater share of the social benefit, because they are more interested in ensuring security and security in the country and in having infrastructure in place. As far as economists are concerned, it is interesting that 80% of the world's economists, among them an infinite number of economists, are of the opinion that graduated income tax is the correct tax system. Always trying to question it in the Western world by a minority, perhaps the sharpest professors who contribute more to intrigue. By making you read the majority of the professors who represent you, I could stretch the list long, just as I can stretch the list of countries with progressive income tax. If you question that progressive income tax will speed up economic success, speak as a practitioner! Look at what happened to Hungary, where, on 1 January of this year, the Estonian tax system was transformed into a one-sided tax system and where economic growth is very poor. They did the same experiment as we have done, and they realized that such a tax system does not bring economic prosperity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U109	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U110	Thank you. Dear waitress, In your report, you listed a number of countries where, like Estonia, there is a proportional tax system. Finally, you called it shameful to be part of these countries. Unlike you, I do not find it shameful to be on the same list as Hong Kong, Lithuania, the Czech Republic or Slovakia. These are among the fastest-growing economies in their region. I was surprised that as a middle party, you included Russia as a disgrace. However, we all know that most of the political contacts and funds of the Chairman of the Centre Party come from Russia. Why such a hostile attitude toward our neighboring country? Aren't you afraid to go against Savisaar?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U111	Thank you very much for the intriguing question. My goal and that of the Centre Party is for Estonia to become a safe Nordic country, a country where the state can provide education for children, health care for the elderly and a pension, where teachers receive normal pay and where buses also travel in rural areas. I therefore certainly consider it a goal to reach a Nordic society. Of course, as a member of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs, I acted too childishly when I did not consider such fine countries as Albania, Macedonia, Mongolia and Montenegro as examples for us. I think it is important to take the example of those who are encouraging. Finland is certainly an inspiring example for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U112	Please, Mr Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Yesterday you described in a very graphic way how great and difficult it has been to fight for this bill. To your comfort, on a global scale, you have made progress. The Russian leader of liberal democrats Zirinovsky recently stated that their party also supports the idea of graduated income tax. In the explanatory memorandum, you state the sustainability of this law. It seems that Estonia is about to be free of problems. Let me quote from one part here: 'A change in the tax system will increase the revenue of the state budget, which is why it is possible to ensure a wage increase for teachers, rescuers and policemen and to increase the income tax paid to local governments. " Question: How much raise do you guarantee teachers, rescuers, and policemen, and how much do you increase the income tax to be paid to local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U114	Thank you. I must first respond to your reply on foreign policy victories. In the same way, I could compliment your party that you have achieved a tremendous success. In the United States, for example, there is this colorful Republican presidential candidate who has said that barbed wire and electric current should be drawn between the United States and Mexico. Let us be careful of these parallels. I'm not saying that about your party. However, as regards where additional resources should be put by the state, we are of the opinion that, when we tabled amendments and amendments to the 2012 budget, the Central Party Group only came up with the essentials. Teachers whose wages have been frozen for years are in a situation of constant impoverishment due to price increases. Our proposal was to raise teachers' salaries by 20% from 2012. As far as municipalities are concerned, we believe that, not because of the tax system at all, but because in 2009 the proportion of income tax received by the municipalities without reducing the burden should be reduced, the first step should be to restore the percentage of income tax received by the municipalities to 11.93. Only then can we continue to talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U115	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U116	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The usual argument for introducing progressive income tax is that progressive income tax cannot be introduced because it takes away the appetite for work. I think it's to blur reform parties, which the IRL just sings along. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U117	Is it that progressive income tax takes away the appetite for work? Similarly, it could be argued that higher value added tax (VAT) on food takes away the appetite, that higher value added tax on medicines takes away the appetite for life, and that higher value added tax on indoors takes away the appetite to live in Estonia, a country with such a cold climate. In fact, with progressive income tax, this misunderstanding is the one dragonhead we've had to chop all along. We are not advocating here the tax system that once existed in the Soviet Union. We are promoting western progressive income tax, the hallmark of which is compound progress. A compound process means that a higher level of taxation is to be paid only on an amount exceeding that level. In the last draft of the Centre Party, this is taxable income exceeding EUR 15972 and is only taxed at 33%, not taxed at 33% of total income. In a broad way, those who have won thousands of euros a year from the reduction in the tax rate are now starting to make a greater contribution to the state budget. But they're not gonna be poorer than their less paid colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U118	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U119	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I sincerely hope that the Centre Party will manage to do this middle-class thing once and for all. Entrepreneurship can undoubtedly form the basis of the middle class in Estonia. The average company in Estonia has nine employees, which is basically the engine of middle-class development. My question and concern relate to how this bill intends to tax dividends. It is known that the payment of dividends from business is already subject to corporate tax. There's no risk of double taxation here, is there? Clarify this situation as it also excites potential pro-stage income tax supporters in right-wing parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, If you ask a question, I ask you to stay in the hall for an answer! This is my big request to you. Please, my colleague Andrus Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U121	The issue of dividends was also discussed in the Riigikogu's Finance Committee when this draft was discussed. I think the issue of dividends is much wider than the subject of this draft. I believe that no one is arguing that dividends are currently subject to low taxation in Estonia and, therefore, millions of euros of dividends are declared each year, which are by their very nature ordinary salaries, but are not subject to social tax. The Centre for Policy Studies in Praxis has done analysis and said... I don't think it's worth talking about. The Praxis Centre for Policy Studies has carried out an analysis where the sustainability of the Health Insurance Fund and the Pension Fund is also linked to the fact that dividends could be taxed on social tax. But the bill doesn't concern it. The draft is based on this, as in other European countries, dividends have been taxed: dividends continue to be taxed at a uniform rate of income tax. Between two readings, if this draft is not rejected today, it is possible to make an amendment so that the rate of income tax on legal and natural persons is unambiguous.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U122	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! You and the members of your party have spoken on several occasions in this Chamber about the employment of Estonian citizens abroad. This is certainly a very worrying trend. It is not just the unemployed, the low-paid or the low-educated who go to work in foreign countries, as you might imagine. Quite the opposite. These are educated people, doctors and engineers with an average or higher average salary. Hence my question: does the Centre Party want to further increase the number of people travelling abroad because of the tax increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U123	Thank you for your question. It is important to bear in mind where these well-educated Estonian working people usually go to. They do not go to Mongolia or Belarus, they still tend to go towards Finland, Sweden, Great Britain, Ireland or the United States, where everyone has progressive income tax. Finland has a five-tier income tax and a 19% local tax is added to the income tax rate. One well-serving Estonian person would also pay less tax in Estonia in the case of progressive income tax than he should in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U124	Please, Mr Erki Arrow, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U125	Thank you. I am pleased that you answered the previous question for a very long time, although I did not receive a direct answer. That's it. You referred to school food in your response. Thanks to the proud leadership of the city of Tallinn, my children can eat very well at school, so they are full. But I'm still asking over tax percentages. You are talking about 33%, 15972 euros of annual income and dividend income. What moment is clear to the tax administration, which is dividend income and what is man's own income? After all, this dividend income goes to the bank account.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U126	Thank you. I'm glad your children are well fed. It is certainly the responsibility of the state to ensure that all children are well fed. The additional revenue from graduated income tax will certainly provide an opportunity to stand up for other children as well. But as far as dividend income is concerned, dividends are now taxed by the company. If the company wishes to pay dividends of EUR 1 million, for example, the income tax, dividing by 0,7 and multiplying by 0,21, is EUR 265823. If the gross wage already includes income tax, it must be added to the dividends. With this bill, we will not change this principle, but I agree that it should be spelled out more precisely in the text between two readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U127	Please, Mr Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! After all, your bill concerns people who are far from rich, and unfortunately, good enterprising people are being punished for nothing. If I have understood correctly, the Central Party's approach is that whoever earns more will have to pay the state more as taxes. Isn't that right now? Take, for example, a person with an annual income of EUR 15000, and compare him with a person with an income of EUR 150000. After all, the latter person brings ten times as much money to the country. Is that not enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U129	Thank you. We do not think that state taxes are punishment for citizens. Then we should say that most European countries are very repressive because they collect tax on the principle of graduated income tax. But now the monthly salary of EUR 1518 is quite high. When you talk to people living outside Tallinn about this degree, most people will not imagine reaching this level in the coming years. From a point of view of justice, and from the point of view of the state's benefits, people with higher incomes, with higher assets, will also receive more benefits from the state. Their need for public services, such as law enforcement, the judiciary and a decent road network, is much greater than for people on low incomes. If there were no security and public order in society, if there were no smooth roads, their losses would be much greater. You're shaking your head. You're probably standing up for everyone to be able to get their own police, rescue and medical services. But our goal is to ensure that it is equally guaranteed to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U130	Please, Mr Sõerd, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U131	Thank you. I had a specific question in the Committee on Monetary Affairs: how is income tax withheld on current payments? What is the rate to be applied? You replied that the percentage applied depends on the amount of payout. Suppose a person is six months unemployed, works in the first half of the year or does a few months of seasonal work, and the payout is, for example, 1600 euros. It shall recover its income tax only after the declaration has been submitted. Why does your tax reform discriminate against seasonal workers or people who are unemployed for six months?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U132	Thank you, Mr. Sõerd. You really had a lot of questions. At times it seemed that you thought we were inventing a bicycle and that Estonia was the first country to collect progressive income tax. Fortunately, we finally came to the Commission's understanding that there are quite a number of countries that have managed to collect this tax and probably a small e-Tiger Estonia can do so. Implementing acts must, of course, be developed by the Ministry, but on your proposal, I have examined how tax collection is taking place in Finland. In Finland, a person can choose a tax scheme according to his or her income. If his income is stable every month, as you mentioned, then the income tax-free minimum will also be calculated and the tax levels will be re-calculated on a monthly basis. If a person does not work every month, it is considered that the first months are exempt, that the next months are already counted at a lower rate of income tax, etc. For an e-state like Estonia, such a small nuance should not become a problem of tax accounting.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U133	Please, Mr Randpere, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U134	Thank you. Mrs. Samson! With regard to Adam Smith, I think you may have even read him, but in this case, like the old devil, the Bible, because he did not really talk about progressive income tax, but he is well suited to the description of the proportional income tax that applies in Estonia. But in order to boost you a little bit more, I will give you an example from Sweden. I will read out a quote from the Swedish Social Democrat Minister for Finance who, after finishing his work, wrote a report for the Swedish Government: 'The most serious damage to high-level income tax is likely to be invisible and represents things that could happen but not happen: a job that is not sought or a job that is not created; studies and scientific careers that are not carried out; new ideas that will not be implemented. And if these same things come true because of our tax system outside Sweden, these events will remain invisible to us. ' Are you saying Kjell-Olof Feldt is wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U135	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U136	I'm sorry I didn't come here with a quote book, so I can't read another quote in response to you, but I'm reminded of the editorial from the Financial Times, which said that if you want to carry out a dream today to become a newspaper boy millionaire, then the most favorable environment for realizing this dream is Finland. There's progressive income tax, but the Financial Times doesn't think it's gonna stop a newspaper boy from becoming a millionaire. It is likely that progressive income tax can give all children an equal start, and from there everything depends on smartness, intelligence and industriousness. If you have received such a boost from the state, you do not feel that the country's contribution is kidnapping because you have received it from the state, you are a patriot and you want it to be just as good for others to live in that country.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U137	Thank you! Good waitress! The same Financial Times that you mentioned have repeatedly written about the fact that graduated income tax in the wealthiest countries has led to the situation where the least tax is paid by the most wealthy, because the higher tax rate gives them sufficient justification to look for all kinds of legal means of tax evasion. For example, if you look at the US or the Swedish telephone book, there are thousands of companies on yellow pages, law firms that only optimize taxes, that is their main activity. Luckily, we don't have any companies in that category yet. Do you want us to get there so that there will be a number of people in Estonia who will be able to earn the most in terms of tax optimisation, and the poorest ones who simply cannot afford expensive tax attorneys will pay the most taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U138	This claim that taxes are difficult to declare in the United States and therefore we should not take over this system is again a dragonhead of counter-arguments that must be cut all the time. Let us be correct. There is a very complex tax return system in the United States, but it is due to tax exemptions. There are dozens, if not hundreds, of possibilities to optimize payment, but not because of steps, but because of deductions. This bill does not bring any additional tax benefits. However, with regard to the claim that the rich win and the poor still have to pay their taxes, it may be appropriate to say that all kinds of research has been carried out on graduated income tax. For example, in recent decades, the US has found that the impact of the tax system on people's happiness needs to be examined. 54 countries were investigated. The journal Psychological Science found that harmonisation of tax rates could also lead to a convergence of social welfare. However, it was the case that in these 54 countries citizens were the happier the more progressive the country's tax policy was. So, yes, the fortune of the rich may be a little reduced, but the happiest people are in a country with progressive income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U139	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to comment to Arto Asa, who took a higher role than investigative bodies and courts in the introductory part of his question: I would suggest that you be more careful with such statements. But my question concerns the press release by Mr Rõivas, where he says that the progressive income tax provided by the Centre Party would impose an additional tax burden on teachers and policemen. I get the impression that my colleague, Taavi Kõivas, does not know what the teacher's and the savior's average salary is. The teacher's salary is 771 euros on average and the savior's salary is 683 euros. Am I correct to understand that the concept of progressive income tax that the Central Party has proposed does not impose an additional tax burden on teachers or policemen?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U141	Today, unless even 20% of teachers' wages are found to rise, teachers' wages are far behind the tax rate we are offering. But I appeal to the IRL Group. It seems to me that you've got a very strong ally standing up for teachers' pay. This is Taavi Rõivas, who promises that by 2014, the average salary for police and teachers will be EUR 1518. This is nothing more than an increase of 36.7% in teachers' salaries in all subsequent financial years, and so for four years in a row. That's when this tax rate could be about teachers' pay. So we still have the opportunity to discuss the salaries of teachers in the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the second reading of the state budget, and as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in Taavi Rõiva, I am sure that teachers' salaries are now in favour of an increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U142	Good colleague Taavi in the garment, line.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U143	Thank you. I'd rather have a procedural question for the manager. Is it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that both the questioner and the respondent attribute completely arbitrary claims to a person who is himself in the Chamber, who knows very precisely what he said, and whose words can be checked on the Riigikogu website? Is it in keeping with the Rules of Procedure that such biased assertions should be attributed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U144	Thank you, Mr Javier. As a representative of a group, you can come and say what was right and what was wrong. But if a person has understood that, then the manager can't decide that right now. So if it is possible for the representatives of the group to speak, please come to the speaker's desk and say it. Mr Stalnukhin, your name was not heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U145	Thank you. A procedural question. I would ask for an evaluation of the previous speech, given that yesterday, my colleague, Mrs Tusi, spoke about Mrs Tusi, and she was able to express her opinion on behalf of Mrs Tuusi.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U146	Ladies and gentlemen, We are now continuing to discuss the draft law, but not to make assessments. Next question, please! Mr Tõniste, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U147	Thank you. I don't think it's weird if we're worried about teachers whose wages we want to raise, but we can see that they're going to have to start paying back a lot of the country right away. But I wanted to say that I certainly do not agree with your argument that those who earn more will also use the services of the state more or at least use that value. Why aren't you talking about those who make significantly more than EUR 15000 a year paying more social tax, paying VAT on consumption and paying their infrastructure costs through excise duties on fuel? Please just be correct next time and talk about it!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U148	Thank you. Now I could start to debate what the expression 'now' from the mouth of a politician means. If teachers start paying more taxes immediately, when will the teacher's average salary exceed 1518 euros? I'm afraid it won't happen in this decade. The Taavi in the garment went out of this room. Now he's back. I got a print from the Riigikogu's website, our Castle Web. That's where the factions can put up their press releases. The party of the Reform Party has put up a press release where probably someone on your payroll has quoted Taavi Rõiva: 'The ambassador explains that in a few years' time, under the conditions of wage growth, both police and teachers would be paying a higher rate. ' So this is going to happen in 2014, when you find each year, I repeat, 36.7% of the money to raise teachers' salaries, because today the minimum wage for teachers is 608 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U149	Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I ask that we stick to the bill! Let us not talk about what anyone has said! We're discussing a bill. Please ask questions about this bill, but not what someone has read from somewhere or what someone has written from somewhere! Please, let's continue to discuss the bill! Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid, the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U150	Thanks! I'm gonna go back to the children's literature I started yesterday. Astrid Lindgren, once a Swedish Social Democrat, died today, intervened against progressive income tax in 1976 because the state had accidentally taxed him with 102% or 103%. Then he began to see these dangers. You were talking about the theory of Finland and the myth of a newspaper boy to be a millionaire. A step-by-step income tax can reverse this myth, by turning it into a millionaire newspaper boy. Why does the Centre Party think that Estonians have a tax? Why do you want to put a knife in the back of a very weak, still emerging middle class with progressive income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U151	Juku! For starters, I have to say, listen to what Ene Ergma is saying. You were talking about children's literature again. But second, I have to say that one wise man can't answer as much as a hundred fools ask, or it was the other way around. A step-by-step tax on income...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U152	Excuse me! Ladies and gentlemen, We leave out such comments, we are in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U153	A step-by-step income tax cannot make anyone poorer to the extent that less money is left to a person than a colleague earning less from him. I'm just trying to explain myself to you. If a member of the Riigikogu, such as Juku-Kalle Raid, earns 4000 euros, the minimum income tax-free amount of 4,000 euros will first be deducted and then all other exemptions will be deducted. Of the first taxable amount of EUR 1518 if you do not have a second pillar pension contract, no home loan has been taken, or if you do not have several children, 21% will still be charged income tax, 33% will be charged income tax. In principle, more than EUR 12 will have to be paid for every 100 euros above that limit, which will not make anyone poor for a salary such as EUR 4000. Looking at the principle of fairness, people with high pay have won 2200 euros a year from a reduction in income tax of 26% to 21%. This victory also lasts in these difficult times when all other taxes are added, which also hit people who do not earn anything, such as the unemployed, pensioners, children. This victory still applies to those on high pay. At the moment, we have just reached the point that the state is spreading its hands and is not carrying out a number of very important tasks, because there is no so-called money. But actually, there's a resource to find money to raise teachers' salaries and kindergartens. That's the principle. Of 102%, 33% is as far away from Finland as Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U154	Please, Mr Aas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U155	Thank you. Firstly, in the case of the Nordic example, I suggest that the rapporteur also examine the topic of wealth stratification. The balance and stratification of incomes is something other than the wealthy stratification that Imre Sooäär referred to here earlier. Affluent people can afford to hide their incomes. But my question concerns Hungary and the arbitrary association between this poor economic situation and the tax system. What tax system is currently the worst economic situation in European countries, I mean Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal? Doesn't there also apply to graduated income tax? Why has it not helped them to lead their economies to prosperity?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U156	When the euro aid packages were discussed (the Madam President will probably not allow me to talk about them because we are talking about progressive income tax), Estonia was always mentioned in international literature. In countries such as Greece and Italy, the situation is that the country has borrowed a lot, but the loan burden of individual people is much lower than that of Estonians. We can't just look at one indicator here that suits us. We also need to see that these people there do not carry as much of a burden as we have placed on the shoulders of our low - paying people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U157	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Is there an analysis in which it is mentioned that the salary of EUR 15973 is the one from which the tax rate could be 33%? When we talk about the middle class of Estonia, it is very clear that it is not the person receiving less than 2000 euros per month who could charge taxes. I am not arguing that our salary could possibly have a much higher tax. But aren't we still going to take a bigger tax on those who are somehow trying to deal with themselves and, as you just mentioned, who have home loans and everything?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U159	We're taking taxes now from those who don't get paid. We're just taking taxes with a different name, which have been rising all the time. Estonia has been a country with a very rapid tax increase. This money is being taken away from people by the rise in VAT and excise duties. Where's the fair border to stop taxing anyone who can't handle it anymore? From human experience, the more a person has, the more he needs to cope normally. Somewhere we need to find the limit where we can raise the tax level. I'm in a difficult situation now because you can't do an exact analysis. The Estonian average wage is the same: just as we do not memorize the time, there is no point in memorizing the average wage figures, because they are constantly changing. But I make reference to a small country in Europe, which is in the euro zone and where there are about as many people as we do, but where there is a little more wealth. In Slovenia, a higher tax rate of 41% will apply to annual revenues above EUR 14800. Basically, the figure we have come up with is that the people who earn the most from it have won the most from the reduction in income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U160	Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U161	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'm looking at your bill, which is now in two steps. I'm excluding this tax-free minimum right now. I will look at the drafts you have given to the proceedings in the last Riigikogu configurations on the subject of progressive income tax. I notice a few things. Firstly, there have been even four steps in your earlier proposals. Secondly, what's very interesting is that you're at least in the words of fighting for low-paid people and you've brought a percentage down. Let me give you some examples. You once proposed that the tax rate for up to EEK 32000 should be 15%. Even last year, you proposed that the tax rate for annual income of up to EEK 70000 should be 18%. Here's my question to you, even two questions. First of all, don't you think about the low-paid people that you don't want to bring down a percentage anymore? The second question: why are you constantly playing with tax rates, is this your request?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U162	I am now trying to respond politically. We offer different options because perhaps some of these options will also find your involvement. If the answer is correct, this more complex, four-stage version was developed by Estonian economic professors. Here before the Riigikogu in defending this bill, it turned out to be a little too complicated. We didn't get a job shadow to send some brave member of the Reform Party who went and told us that now this 26% would apply to teachers and rescuers, and we couldn't explain that a lower tax rate would reduce their tax burden to a much greater extent. We figured we'd go on with the third, B-version, make this system two-step, which can be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U163	Please, Mr Dress, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U164	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that all these biased claims and quite creative calculations of the compound percentage, which the students of primary school will certainly be able to overcalculate, will remain on your conscience, as will the example of Slovenia for Estonia. As far as I know, Slovenia is forecasting growth of 1.3% this year, which is more than five times less than in Estonia, for example. My question reflects that I think you insulted Estonia as a whole by calling Estonia the poorest country in the euro zone. Is it not appropriate, for example, to look at how quickly the economy of one country or another has grown over the last ten years, or do you consider it appropriate to rub in Estonia's nose that we have been occupied for 50 years and that is why our starting position was worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U165	Thank you. I guess you learn from the masters in this chair. I also learned from the Prime Minister, who likes to spread the statistics out of his hand. According to statistics, Estonia is the poorest country in the euro area. Based on such indicators, there is no way to offend your country. My party and I are working to ensure that Estonia does not become the poorest. As far as comparison with Slovenia is concerned, do you know to mention, apart from Estonia, a country where the economy fell by 14% in 2009? Do you know any eurozone countries where the economy fell so much? No. Here we were, number one. To be honest, one big plus of the progressive income tax is that it prevents these booms from being raised and crashed as a boom. More stable economic development gives the country and people confidence. That's the point of progressive income tax. As income increases, a person automatically moves to a higher tax rate, but when surprise wage cuts come, it does not hit him so painfully, because a lower tax rate is levied on the lower income. It softens those falls for him, too. As far as the tendency is concerned, I am pleased that you have learned the principle of what graduated income tax is and are no longer arguing about compound progression. It's been good for you, too. We haven't spent those hours here for nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U166	Please, Mr Sooäär, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U167	Thank you! A good colleague from Trivimi Velliste, who sat around the same place as Juku-Kalle today, has repeated a sentence in this Chamber for years: no tax. As Ambassador to the United States, he must have gotten to know the system more than you and me. In recent times, many politicians in both Congress and the Senate have said that the US should also go to the same simple tax system as in Estonia. I fully agree that these many exceptions have led to the complexity of the tax system and that it is necessary to help lawyers. But making steps is the first step towards making it more complicated. Why do you want to complicate the Estonian tax system so that the common people no longer understand it and that is why you need to hire lawyers to fill out your tax return? It is no secret that people in these countries are doing all kinds of tricks to fit into certain tax boxes and not to cross them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U168	Veteran politician Trivimi Velliste said the golden words. But why didn't he and your actions respond? Since 2007, payments have been amended several, if not several dozen, times. We start with the excise duty on electricity, we start with two weeks' notice of the increase in VAT, we continue with the increase in VAT on medicines, medical equipment, books, cultural events. There's a question about what taxes you're playing with. Payment has been raised so much that every household in Estonia has been able to bear a considerable additional burden by increasing VAT and excise duties on fuel. This burden has been harder for people with lower incomes, as incomes go to most people for consumption. People with higher incomes can also save. I attended a consumption conference yesterday, where economist Andres Arrak said that most of the well-managed people are already buying clothes somewhere else, so they can save here and spend their expenses elsewhere. The vast majority of Estonian people have only gained an extra burden from playing with taxes. Our proposal is not to increase their burden and to allow the state to act as a state and carry out its tasks, to give the burden to those on high wages like us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U169	Please, Mr Sven Sester, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U170	Thank you, Madam President. I asked two questions before, and you chose a more comfortable answer. I repeat the other half of my question. At this point, it is quite appropriate to say that you have just mentioned that the burden is more difficult for those with lower incomes. I would like to reiterate that it was only last year, in 2010, that you gave a step-by-step draft of income tax to the proceedings, where you also provided for an income tax rate of 18%. That is my question: are you just in words, not in your actions, trying to fight for the interests of the low-paid people? I would have made sense if, even in the case of average wages, you had provided for a reduced tax rate of 18% or even 15%. You didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U171	Thank you. I have to come back to the fact that the additional revenue from graduated income tax allows consumption taxes to be reduced, for example, by domestic VAT. You, too, have probably noticed that there is now a ghost going over Estonia and this is a ghost rising the price of a room warm. But the problem with the rise in consumption taxes is their regressivity, which is why poorer households pay a relatively large part of their income in the form of these taxes. The justification for the increase in consumption taxes that you are doing is hitting people on lower incomes. We'll think about them. The introduction of graduated income tax is precisely justified by the fact that it allows consumption taxes to stop rising and allows the tax burden to be put at the heart of the people who can bear it. But since this is probably the last question from the members of the coalition, I would like to put it to you that, when you go around Estonia, you do not say that a higher income tax rate of 33% makes the high-wage earners poor. No, a compound process means that only a certain part of the salary exceeding EUR 1518 is taxed at a higher rate; only it is taxed at a higher rate. Don't do that again, don't tell ghost stories that aren't true.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U172	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U173	Madame waitress! It is somewhat strange for a person standing far from ideally to listen to you and the Reform Party's dispute over income tax, because you are both part of the Liberal Group in Europe. After all, Mr Zirinovsky, quoted here in the meantime, is the chairman of the Russian Liberal Democratic Party. But my question is this: do you not know what the attitude towards graduated income tax is in this group of your common European group, liberals?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U174	The liberal umbrella organisation includes a number of different political parties. It includes all Nordic central parties, includes British Liberal Democrats and includes political parties chaired by the Prime Minister of the country. Let's just say that there is a waterfall in tax matters in this umbrella organisation, but the Reform Party clearly represents a minority in the umbrella organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U175	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U176	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! One line for the landlord sitting in the hall: payment is also optimised in Estonia and not limited. But I had this weird idea at the same time. I have a familiar man who once escaped from Estonia to Sweden. When I first visited her, she lived so fucking rich in this graduated Swedish country, and when she came back to Estonia, she was even richer because it is possible to be well rich in Estonia when coming from Sweden. His example inspires me to think that progressive income tax is the right thing to do when Sweden is able to get so rich so quickly, coming up with two hands in its pocket, off the ship. Tell me again what awaits me when progressive income tax is introduced. I haven't believed in it very well so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U177	You and your good colleague can probably talk about this success model outside the Riigikogu. But, broadly speaking, the progressive income tax gives the state additional revenue, so that it is possible to carry out the tasks that are now being said to have no hope. It provides resources so that teachers do not have to come to Toompea for a second time, but they find money to raise their wages, and that the Estonian state contributes to its children, regardless of their parents' ability to feed on their stomachs. This provides an opportunity to stop constantly increasing indirect taxes, which hits people on lower incomes in particular. It is not of minor importance that it enables people who work in higher-paid jobs to make their contribution to society and contribute to it through tax policy, not through arbitrary charity, to make a contribution that will help the Estonian state to flourish and grow. Thank you for your attention. I hope that these discussions will continue in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U178	There really are no more questions. Thank you very much, Mr Simson. Taavi Rõivas, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The draft initiated by the Central Party of the Riigikogu was on the agenda of the Monetary Committee on 15 November. As the initiator, Kadri Simson presented the draft and Elo Haugas, adviser to the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in the discussion of the draft as representative of the Government of the Republic. According to the initiators and the explanatory memorandum, the draft aims to increase revenue from the state budget by changing the income tax system. According to the draft, the current common rate of income tax would be replaced by two different rates: from annual income up to EUR 15972, i.e. from monthly income up to EUR 1331 a tax of 21% and above 33%. The debate in the Commission was very thorough. We also received the position of the government, drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, which intended not to support the draft. In a rather laconic letter, the government pointed out two reasons, which are, indeed, quite compelling. Estonia's tax policy has chosen a different path in principle, and it has been referred to. The members of the opposition criticised this rather laconic position of the government very extensively in the Commission. I believe that, in a sense, rightly so, because in the government's written position, too, I believe that it should have been made clear, for example, that if the initiators of the draft act see that this draft could bring in EUR 180 million per year, then the government's analysis says that it is no more than EUR 60.70 million, or three times less. I agree with the opposition's criticism that it should have been set out in greater detail in the government's written position. At the same time, to be honest, it has to be said that similar drafts, which basically want to change the Estonian tax system extensively, have been in the past and very much in bringing in the steps, not with exactly the same tax rates. The government has already explained very thoroughly why progressive income tax as such is a detrimental solution for Estonia. The most extensive debate in the Commission was about how much money this bill would bring to the budget. The questions and opinions of the Members of the Commission also concerned how exactly the tax would be charged. In particular, if the draft states that the 33% tax rate will be imposed on taxpayers' taxable income exceeding EUR 15972 per year, i.e. EUR 1331 per month, the explanatory memorandum refers to other figures. Thus, the initiator has in his mind foreseen a much wider system of changes, also in his intention to change what taxable income means. As a result, there are very serious contradictions between the explanatory memorandum and the draft. We talked quite thoroughly about where one or the other rate of income tax applies. I would point out, as the Commission said, that, by looking at the level of wealth in one country or another, it would certainly be extremely naive to say that the country is wealthy because it has such or a different tax system. The historical background must also be taken into account, in the case of Estonia, that we lived for 50 years under the conditions of occupation. This means that our economy took off from a position many times worse than many of our neighbours in the early 1990s. Such circumstances must certainly be taken into account in Parliament's debates. We may find that some countries are wealthy despite the fact that there is progressive income tax, but certainly not because there is progressive income tax. The members of the committee made a very serious criticism that the draft, which is well known to be very laconic, containing in principle only one paragraph (the second paragraph gives the date of entry into force), essentially changes the entire Estonian income tax system. By changing only one rate, we create total chaos in all other paragraphs because it does not realize that a proportionate and progressive income tax system is very different, it is not enough to make only one change in one paragraph. There were a lot of technical nuances, such as how the special preferential tax is taken into account, how dividends are taken into account, how different tax technical issues are addressed. Let me give you an example. Since there is a uniform tax rate, companies do not pay the tax on dividends, not on an individual basis, taken into account for each person, but on dividends, tax on corporate income tax is paid in the form of a uniform tax. If some people have incomes above EUR 15972 per year, taking into account their other incomes, wages, including, and some people below, this new system would actually mean a complete overhaul of the system for all companies paying dividends. However, as has been said, the most in-depth debate took place on the results of the draft. The Ministry of Finance's official assessment, based on an analysis, states that this draft could result in a payment of EUR 60.70 million. The Centre Party Group itself says that this amount could be EUR 180 million. The Commission had opinions that this EUR 60-70 million, too, was too optimistic for a number of reasons. Those reasons, I think, were very serious. Why did we devote so much time to the effect? Because the same draft was marked as a cover for the Central Party's amendments at second reading of the state budget, and these amendments amounted to around EUR 180 million. When it turned out that the actual impact of the draft was much smaller, we naturally received information that some of the amendments were really uncoverable. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 22 November 2011 (this decision was taken in a consensual manner) and to propose that the draft be rejected at first reading (with 6 votes in favour and 5 against). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U180	Thank you very much, Mr Javier. Question from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U181	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! It really surprises me that you are so strongly opposed to the rise in the pay of teachers and rescuers that the state will have enough money for children after the end of the parental benefit period, so that parents can be sure that they will also have their children raised in this Estonian country. The main argument of the government departments is that there is no money. At present, a specific source of coverage is indicated in the form of graduated income tax. Why are you opposed to raising the salaries of teachers and rescuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U182	Thank you. That's a very good question. If the actual impact of the draft is no more than EUR 60 million from the additional levy, but the draft is put as a cover for an increase in all kinds of expenditure of EUR 180 million, then each can calculate that two thirds of the generous promises made under this draft are really uncoverable. That's one. Secondly, to be fair to the end, yesterday we discussed the draft reduction in electricity excise duty, which would have saved EUR 1.2 per household per month, but at the same time it would have cost the state EUR 30 million, i.e. half of the money from the progressive income tax. Believe it or not, progressive income tax does not give rise to additional revenue in the budget so that it can solve all major problems. Far from it. Some problems could really be solved, because some extra money would probably come from there. I would emphasise once again that 33% is a very high tax rate increase and no additional money, whether it is 60 million or slightly less or more, can be expected from there. But like I said, if we dropped the electric excise, half that money would be gone. Another very fundamental thing is that the introduction of progressive income tax, and even the signal of a sharp rise in tax, would clearly reduce investors' interest in Estonia as an investment environment. This would have direct consequences for Estonia's future economic growth. If, as a result of progressive income tax, even every 50th investment would not be made available in Estonia, it would be enough to have a negative impact on the budget as a whole. Such things also need to be considered. As regards the rise in the salaries of teachers, policemen and rescuers, contrary to what Mr Pikhof said, I also pointed out in yesterday's press release that the policy of the government union is aimed both at the general wage increase and at the rise in the salaries of teachers, policemen and rescuers. I see this perspective that teachers, policemen and rescuers will have a higher salary than 1331 euros in the future. Yeah, you can't do that in one year, of course. This may not be possible in two or three years, but I can see clearly this perspective, especially when we look at how fast the average wage in Estonia increased in the past and wages increased in the first place. That is why I see today that this bill will also start to take money from teachers, rescuers and police officers in the future. That's my problem. This draft does not stipulate that an average salary of one and a half times the average salary and the excess income are taxed at 33%. This draft says rigidly: the tax rate for revenue above EUR 15972 per year, or EUR 1331 per month, is 33%. Remember how much the average wage in Estonia was ten years ago, for example, and you will understand that the concern that the recipient of the average wage will pay much more due to this bill after three, five or ten years is justified. We need not only to look at the law for the next year, but also to look further ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U183	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U184	You're talking, dear waitress, about the wages that were ten years ago. Remember also the prices that were ten years ago. In the last four years alone, the consumer basket has become twice as expensive. Now my question. If any question is voted on in a city council and a person has personal interests in that decision, he will leave the room at the moment of his decision. We now had the opposition in favour of social justice, but you represented those who wanted to maintain their income. Don't you see the corruption in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U185	Thank you, Madam President. I have the first question, not the second one. I never asked Samson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U186	I'm sorry, I just had a second place in front of me!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U187	Thank you. I'll start at the end. Everyone in this Chamber must be able to be a statesman in the debate on individual issues and see the impact on the development of the Estonian economy as a whole. Believe me, Mr Stalnukhin, we make decisions here day by day that affect the future performance of both us and our children, and often influence the better. For example, I do not consider it a corrupt decision not to take a large loan to Estonia, although it is certainly a useful decision for my daughter, but it is equally beneficial for everyone else. If you ask whether voting against tax increases would be corrupt, I will say no, because voting against tax increases is a good act for all the people of Estonia, not just for us. That's one. As regards the fact that there is also a phenomenon such as inflation, this is the correct observation. The fact that consumer prices have doubled over the last four years is certainly not accurate, but this is not important in this case. What is important is that, if inflation can be expected in the future, the more this bill, which sets a higher tax rate on nominal wages, not real wages, will affect people's lives. If, for any reason, due to inflation, rising living conditions or, more logically, the nominal wage of both will increase in the coming years, each wage increase will increase the number of people who will pay the tax at a higher rate and receive a single income tax rate of 33%.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U188	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U189	Dear waitress, If this were to happen, as many or several of the world's leading economists think, and probably you, as we have heard, that inflation will start quite fast and the salaries of Estonian teachers will really rise to 1500 euros in four years, then why do you expect the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia not to change this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U190	Thank you. Look, there is a rather specific draft before us, which sets a specific tax rate from a specific amount and that amount is EUR 1331 per month. If such a bill were to pass through the Riigikogu, of course future Riigikogu configurations could change it, they could go back to the earlier system, this rate could be increased from 33% to 40%. All kinds of things can be done. But in front of us today, there is a bill on the table that will tax 33% of all incomes from 1331 euros. We must base our decision on this black and white bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U191	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U192	Thank you. Dear waitress, When I asked the first question, I did not say the word 'consumer price index'. They're delusions. I was talking about a consumer cart. To say that this data is not true is particularly cynical. This news came in January this year. Consumer protection carried out these studies over several years. In January of this year, we learned that in the last four years, the cart has doubled in price. Basically, I don't have a question. But maybe you want to take back your words that I'm sharing misinformation here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U193	Thank you. I don't think either of us is accusing you of misinformation. As I said, it is not crucial in the debate on this issue that inflation has been high, how high the price of a basket has been for one consumer or another. Clearly, there will be inflation to some extent in the future. Each inflation percentage increases the number of people who will suffer from this bill, i.e. who will have to pay a higher tax rate of 33%. Once again, the aim of the government union's policy is to make Estonia's economic environment attractive so that the Estonian economy grows, wages grow, people's incomes grow. The draft is in direct contradiction with this objective, because if the government's aim is to raise people's incomes, you want to put the border on and say that EUR 1331 is the limit that earning more should be a sin for everyone in the future. Our aim is the opposite; our aim is that the average wage should increase to more than EUR 1331. People's income should continue to grow in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U194	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U195	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Waitress! This issue has already been mentioned by my colleague Jaak Allik, but I am actually amazed that I have been here in the Riigikogu for a few months, but the lion's share of the laws we are discussing here have still been the laws of law change. So the rhetoric that we are now adopting the law, which is as if cut in stone, is not quite true, is not written in stone here. But the question is actually about our own salary. If this bill were to pass, the income tax would be slightly higher than the average wage in Estonia. In your dreams, do you see any other way to make our salary, which in Estonia's circumstances is quite high, somehow fairer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U196	Thank you. Each member of the Riigikogu should devote one hundred percent of his time to serving the Estonian people, not to dealing with his or her income. That's one. Secondly, as regards whether the Estonian tax system should continue to change radically in the future, my position is rather negative. I absolutely do not deny that excise duties, for example, are likely to be changed in the future. It is quite logical that the excise duty on wine runs in sync with the consumer price index, so that the price of a bottle of wine in the store does not change while the prices of all food products are increasing. We will certainly see increases in excise duties in the future, there is no doubt about that, but this is not a change in the tax system. This bill, however, means a fundamental change in the tax system. I would also stress that if the Riigikogu approved this draft in the proposed form, there would be very great chaos in the Estonian tax system, because it would simply not be possible to count income tax. Believe me, it is not possible to change the tax system second but to change one percent. As I said, for example, the tax treatment of special advantages is now subject to a different system, thanks to a uniform tax rate, because it is taxed at the employer's level without personalisation. If we were to begin to personalise each individual special advantage, this would create a huge administrative burden, which certainly does not make sense. The great plus of the Estonian tax system has been its simplicity, uniformity and comprehension. Payment must be easy to pay. It also has a significant impact on tax receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U197	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Javier. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to invite Sven Sester as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U198	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to this debate here, but I didn't really understand what the central party that initiated the bill really wanted. Honestly, I didn't understand. I'll tell you some numbers. Let's see if you know them: 935, 1126, 148, 434, 554 and 780. This is a draft law initiated by the Centre Party during the last Riigikogu formations on progressive income tax. I asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to find out when these drafts have been initiated, what wishes have been at the time and whether the matter has finally been suppressed or not. Surprisingly, what I have also pointed out in my question is that it actually seems that you do not know exactly what you want. Why do I think that? When I look at the drafts that have been passed on here over time, they offer four tax levels, three tax levels, two tax levels, there have also been different percentages. I have a feeling you're like wind flags and it's more like a game for you. You know it doesn't find majority support and you put it on paper relatively randomly, without proper planning. That's what history shows. What is particularly interesting and curious is that you have spoken over time that you are fighting for the interests of low-paid people, you have taken steps (at least on paper), putting a lower percentage of income in some period. Indeed, in the past you have suggested that the tax rate for a specific amount should be 15%. In the recent past, last June, on 14 June, you launched another step-by-step draft on income tax. You offered that annual income up to EEK 70,000 would be taxed at 18%. In my opinion, however, the latest bill in particular shows that you are not really thinking about low-paid people. I would have understood if you had really presented your 'potential flagship', a bill that would have included some amount, it would then be 600 or 500 euros, with a tax rate of 15% around, for example. Then I would have understood what you are talking about and that your proposals are in line with the idea that you want to reduce income tax on low-paid people and that you want high-paid people to pay more income tax. You can't really see that right now. This is the first observation. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, I believe that the fundamental difference is whether we tax income or consumption. It's actually that simple. The coalition's understanding has been (this really applies to both parties) that we want to reduce the tax on income. We want income growth, as the previous speaker said in the form of a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You see, in order to use this growing income, you can make your own decisions. You are the master of this money. You know what you want to buy, how much you want to buy, and whether you want to buy anything at all. Consumption, specifically excise duties... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U199	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U200	Consumption as such, yes, should be taxed. There is a fundamental ideological distinction. Looks like we're not gonna get over it or around it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you one more thing. During the last compositions of the Riigikogu, you have not been in the government, but you have been re-independant in the government during the Estonian era. I do not believe that there was real implementation of progressive income tax at that time. I say again: it seems to me that you are not really sincere, that you are not serious, that for you it is simply a game. But I don't think this game should be played. Not to mention that the draft would lead to an increase in administrative burdens, it must be borne in mind that the current system is simple, clearly observable, clearly observable and should not be changed. The IRL Group is very clearly of the opinion that there is no need to support this draft. Let's hope you don't hand over these drafts from this remote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U201	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U202	Ladies and gentlemen, I came here with a chair computer because I opened the State Gazette. My colleague, Sven Sester, read out how many times the Centre Party Group has initiated the draft progressive income tax. But do you know how much income tax legislation has been amended in this century? It's been changed so much that if I started reading these changes right now, you could use my eight minutes of speech. This law was last amended in February 2011, before January 2011, December 2010, October 2010, June 2010, April 2010, and then several times in September and August. This law has been constantly amended. If my quick count didn't fool me, it's been done 70 times this century. This shows that the Income Tax Act is constantly changing, even if it is as simple and simple as that used by Jamaica, Tuvalu, Serbia, Iraq, Turkmenistan and Trinidad and Tobago. Those countries that use the same system, I can read it now. But these are the countries we want to differ from, while those countries that we would like to reach with our standard of living use progressive income tax. When I introduced the bill, I asked you not to speak foolishly and not deliberately mislead me. Javier in clothing, don't you do that again! As a rapporteur for the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you spoke of a gross wage or salary of EUR 1331 if, however, it is clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum that this change concerns a person whose gross wage is at least EUR 1518. We are talking about taxable income, which is much less than gross wages, because tax exemptions have been deducted from gross wages before. So, Javier, don't do that again! However, as far as the policy of the government union is concerned, yes, progressive income tax has been introduced in order to end the increase in indirect taxes. For example, electricity excise duty, indoor heating excise duty and fuel excise duty were increased in 2010 and an additional income of EEK 880 million was planned for the state budget. This burden is unequally distributed. A particularly large part of the increase in excise duty takes away people whose income is low because they no longer save much for anything other than living expenses, food, and sometimes medicines. The problem with rising consumption taxes is that they have very high regressivity, which is why poorer households pay a relatively large part of their budget in the form of these taxes. Speaking of tax levels and the fact that one day a teacher or a police officer may have a salary of EUR 1518, we are all working to get to that time. None of us want any income frozen in Estonia. At the moment, it seems that only child benefits are frozen. But if wages rise, the relative victory will remain for the high earners, because more paid tax money will receive more public goods. Without progressive income tax, teachers' wages will certainly rise much further behind the mountains than with progressive income tax. Finally, I would like to say to the two previous speakers that there was the impression that the Estonian state would not bear the administrative burden that graduated income tax would impose on us. It seemed as if it was an insurmountable burden that no developed country had survived so far. It is a tax system that is used by most European countries, and that is what the Estonian state can do. We don't have to invent a bicycle. We have slightly richer neighbours who use this tax system. The only way to find money for our education system, teachers, rescuers and police officers is to change the tax system. We are clearly opposed to raising indirect taxes. I am pleased that Taavi Rõivas said that tax increases can be voted against. We have always voted that way. We hope that you will no longer vote in favour of tax increases concerning ordinary Estonian people. This debate has been very fruitful. Thank you for being in the hall! I believe that we will continue these discussions. The Reform Party has often changed its mind, but it will once change its mind about the tax system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U203	Thank you, Kadri Simson! Please speak to Aivar Sõerdi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia has been subject to proportional income tax since 1994. I myself was part of the working group that prepared this tax reform. At the time, we were the only countries in the world who dared to introduce proportionate income tax. By now, our courageous move has found many followers and has been widely recognized in the world. The principles of the 1994 tax reform, which largely apply to the present day, were equal treatment of types of income, a broad tax base and easy administration. The tax system that was then introduced had to support economic growth and has successfully done so to this day. Much of it because we have a progressive tax system, our public finances are in order. If we look at the countries that are currently under heavy debt, one of the reasons for these problems is that the tax system has become obsolete, has not fallen behind in time and does not generate as much revenue for the country as the welfare state demands today. Our public finances are still very strong compared to those in the debt crisis. I don't think I'm overreacting at all when I say it's because we have a proportionate income tax. If we really wanted to hit economic growth, then progressive income tax would, of course, do so. Now, from a formal point of view. We are discussing here today the draft, which the initiator of which is now saying how it was actually meant, that the problems that the members of the Riigikogu were asking about today will be resolved by implementing acts of the Minister of Finance, etc. That's not possible, the norm creates the law. The implementing act does not create a norm. Consequently, this draft, which we are discussing here, is not in any way suitable for amending the current Income Tax Act, because it goes against basic things. I can't finish this list. I'm running out of time. The concept of taxable income is defined in the current law in a completely different way than in the draft explanatory memorandum. Not to mention the taxation of special advantages, let alone how income tax is respected. It turned out today that progressive income tax and its retention discriminates against people who have been unemployed for six months or who are working on seasonal work. I don't think the initiators of the bill had thought these questions through. Hence my recommendations: make a proper progressive tax law, if you want it to be possible to discuss this issue constructively. But finally, I'm quoting chief analyst of Danske Bank, Lars Christensen. There are numerous views on what businesses in countries where progressive income tax has been applied think.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U205	Would you like some extra time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U206	I think the answer given by Lars Christensen a few weeks ago to the question of the Postimees journalist is a very vivid example. The journalist asked: "There is an increasingly louder proposal for progressive income tax. ' Lars Christensen replied: 'Scandinavia has been moving towards changing high progressive income tax rates for the last 20 years, the Estonian model. If you think that the current Scandinavian model should serve as an example, then that is the wrong attitude. We must not tax education and work, but progressive income tax would do just that. The only way to combat income inequality is to create jobs. " Golden words said by a wise person who himself works as an entrepreneur in a country with progressive income tax. I repeat once again why I voted in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in favour of not completing the first reading of the draft. This draft is presented in such a way that it cannot be discussed constructively. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, it was not even possible to close this debate because the initiator of the draft could not answer the basic questions on how to implement this law in practice. I certainly do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U207	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U208	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous debate attributed the ability of the tax systems in force in different countries to produce the various benefits and mistakes that exist in these countries and societies that I want to say one thing. The devastating earthquake and tsunami in Japan this spring did not result from progressive income tax in this country. Secondly, since the argument that taxation is a punishment was again in this debate, I would like to say that no, taxation is not a punishment. If taxation were a punishment, I would not understand at all why the Republic of Estonia is punishing a single mother with 20% VAT, who is forced to buy sausage from a shop for their children, which does not contain meat. When it comes to ideological waterfalls, whether income or consumption should be taxed, I think that the Estonian state does not need to encourage the aforementioned consumer to limit his or her consumption in any way. Thirdly, it has been said here that taxes are not being played. We have to argue about taxes in this hall. It must be argued whether the taxes that apply in Estonia are fair, whether they take into account, in addition to how much someone pays out of their income, how much they will be left in their hands. Secondly, it has to be argued whether the taxes that apply to the Estonian state will generate enough revenue to do the necessary things that must be done in the Estonian state. The Social Democrats, of course, support the continuation of the debate at second reading. Then perhaps we will go a little further than today's debate, on which my colleague Eiki Nestor said very well in his private conversation, unfortunately, it still resembles an on-line commentary. Let us continue to discuss the substance of the tax model that is in place in Estonia so that it is both effective and fair! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U209	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Since the proposal of the commission was to reject the draft, we must vote it through. We're going to prepare the voting procedure. I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending § 4 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group 97. Please take a stand and vote. 49 votes to 39, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U210	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next item is the first reading of the Bill 98 on Amendment to the Parental Compensation Act and State Family Benefits Act, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce you to the draft Act amending the Parental Benefits Act and the State Family Benefits Act, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 98. This draft amends the maximum amount of parental benefit by replacing the amount of one calendar month's monthly income subject to the average social tax calculated in accordance with the procedure approved by the Government of the Republic for the calendar year in which the benefit is granted by the Government of the Republic. In other words, the Socialist proposal to reduce the parental benefit ceiling from three times the average salary to twice, which would help to increase the allowance for a single parent child from twice the amount of child benefit to seven times the amount of child benefit. The development of the proposal was driven by the need to make the use of family benefits more effective by increasing support for families at risk of poverty. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! An in-depth analysis of the Estonian social programmes published by the OECD in May 2010 showed that the small amount of money that is allocated to social benefits reaches the pockets of people who are quite well-off instead of those who really need help. Five of the richest groups of people will receive 59% of all taxpayers' money to support families. At the same time, statistics show that most children are growing in five of the poorest groups. The distribution of family support money to the richest part of society is due to the current parental benefit regime. Social benefits in the EU Member States average 27% of GDP, 12.5% in Estonia. If there were no parental benefit, the total amount of social benefits would be very small, Praxis's job and social policy analyst Andres Võrk has said. The network agrees with OECD analysts that there could be more revenue redistribution in Estonia, then there would be more for the poorer. Studies have shown that apart from unemployment, single - parent and many - child families live in the greatest poverty, distress. The high risk of poverty in single-parent families comes primarily from family composition. After all, the relationship between earners and dependants is worse for a single potential worker than for families with two parents. More than 45,000 children live in poverty or even in deep poverty in Estonia, almost 40% of them living in families with one parent. The support of a single parent child has remained unchanged since 2000. This is paid twice the amount of child benefit, i.e. EUR 19 per month, for children whose birth certificate does not include the father or is based on the mother's statement. Thus, only one part of the children raised by a single mother is entitled to the allowance, and there are approximately 23200 children, and there are no families where parents, for example, are separated or the father is dead. According to Eurostat, however, the pay gap between Estonian women and men is 30% as a whole and, of course, to the detriment of women. This unfortunate indicator is one of the highest in the European Union. Statistics Estonia's latest data (from 2009) take into account the one-member household's minimum livelihood, in other words the limit of absolute poverty at 170 euros, of which 75 euros and 29 cents are spent on food. We take the minimum wage, i.e. a single mother receiving EUR 270 per month, who is raising one child and whose child receives 19 euros of child benefit from the state and 19 euros of child benefit from a single parent. A simple calculation shows that this family lives below the limit of absolute poverty. This is also one of the main reasons why single - parent families have the most productive poverty. While Trag's mother may struggle as a squirrel on a wheel between work, kindergarten, school, and home, the family can't cope above the poverty line. In addition to working, other sources of income play an important role in the livelihood of such families: state and local government financial support, free child services. European quality of life surveys in 2007 show that single-parent families live in lower housing conditions than two-parent families. They are more often tenants, not owners, because they have no option of buying or leasing their own dwelling space. Since they live from party to mouth, single parents are more anxious to pay monthly utilities, i.e. electricity, water and communications costs. However, if a single parent is in trouble, he often has no one to look for help or wait for, because the network of social relations around the family is less favourable than for two parents. A 2009 study by Dagmar Kutsar, a docent of the University of Tartu, shows that a child from a poorer family is likely to experience greater material deprivation than other peers. He has fewer opportunities for both interest and participation in the activities of his peers, leisure activities, such as cinemas, theatres, etc. Children themselves estimate that they have fewer friends than others and are less satisfied with themselves. Good fellows! From the development plan for children and families approved by the Government of the Republic in 2012 to 2020 we can read: 'It is elementary that, alongside other benefits, family policy measures have a particular bearing on the well-being of the child and the family and their right to state protection. In addition to increasing funds for families and children, it is also important to increase internal cost-effectiveness by reducing support for target groups at lower risk of poverty and by increasing those for groups at higher risk of poverty, without losing the universal approach that has justified itself. 'The development plan also refers to the Praxis study, which shows that support for large families, child benefit and single parent child support are the most cost effective in reducing child poverty. According to the analysis, the support of a single parent child reaches the children most in poverty, but it is not enough to get these children out of poverty. In other words, the level of support is too low to meet the objective of preventing poverty. This is all in the development plan for children and families approved by the Government of the Republic. For my part, I confirm that the adoption of the draft Social Democrats as a law will make support for families more effective by increasing support for families at risk of poverty and by reducing the benefits for well-managed families. The drafters have taken into account the legitimate expectations of families as well as the changes that could be taken into account in the 2012 state budget process. The law should therefore enter into force ten months after the announcement. From the state budget for the coming year, raising the allowance for a single parent child would require around 1.5 million extra euros. The drafters know that some tens of euros per month are short on the real needs of the growing young. However, if the state and municipalities were to find ways to support the kindergartening of a child who is in need, the education of interest, the use of public transport, other basic things that one child cannot sit or step without, it would already be a little more. The primary task of social policy is to respond to the needs of children and young people, and that is already today, otherwise we will not have tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U212	Thank you very much. There are a number of questions for the rapporteur. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U213	Thank you. Good waitress! I can start my question with a positive statement that the Social Democrats have become more important in the financing of childcare, because in my hometown, you put the creation of Tallinn TV in a good way while you were still in the city. But my question is fundamental. Just as Aivar Sõerd was a member of this working group, which created a tax system that brought Estonia a great deal of success, I was in this working group, which, in my opinion, created a parental benefit system that clearly increased the birth rate in Estonia. I am therefore perfectly aware that with this only a few percent of the parental benefit budget saving change, you are actually breaking the confidence of thousands of young families, because no one knows what you will change in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U214	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U215	Is this thing worth it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U216	I think if you write in the development plan that today's family allowances should be made more effective and within the system, I hope that this will be done. If we now have a parental benefit ceiling of over EUR 2 000 and a minimum of EUR 278, the gap has already increased to nearly eight times. Until recently, the difference was about seven times. There's nothing to justify that some get so much money and others get less money. But, in fact, our goal is to increase the support of a single parent child, which has been unchangeable since 2000 and whose size is ridiculous. If you remember, the Prime Minister, answering my question from this chair in Question Time, which he would buy for a child for EUR 19, considered the amount, even three times that amount, so ridiculous that he said he didn't know what he would buy with that money. I think that the support of a single parent child needs to be increased. And the fact that the family, where the mother goes to work and earns a salary, does not live, lives below the limit of absolute poverty should, in my opinion, make us all very worried in this Chamber of Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U217	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U218	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, This bill is, of course, a step forward in comparison with the current situation in this area. At the same time, I think that all children come from the same world and are the same and all have the same needs: to get food, diapers, clothes, treatment, entertainment, toys, etc. After all, these needs are natural and the same for all children. My opinion is that parental benefit could be equal for all children, because there is no difference between the two children who come into this world. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U219	Thank you for your question. There may be two ideologies here. One thing is that the compensation is the same for everyone. But if he's already dependent on pay, I think that by making some big, sudden changes here, we would somehow be deceiving people's legitimate expectations. If we pull this ceiling down, double it, we can say that we're not aggravating anyone's situation, I mean, double the average salary. I think with this money too, it's possible to live a year and a half and be home with the baby. But in any case, we should have more equality in the Estonian country, not so that we only ensure that there are no children of certain parents, certain families, during the parental benefit period, but when it's been a year and a half, let everyone see how he can handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U220	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U221	Thank you. I have a world-view question. I myself believe in a social system that supports a child and not his or her parents, and we should not give any motive for failing to enter the child's birth certificate for a father or mother. Why have you chosen the path that the absence of one parent in the birth ceremony will be rewarded with a financial reward?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U222	The Social Democrats haven't chosen this route. In the current law, this provision is already inside and it was not a Socialist bill that has become a law. But it is normal that single parents' children also live better if they live today so that their mothers do not have to worry so much that they can be sure that they can raise their child. And that's not often the mother's reason why there's no record of the father in the birth certificate. Fathers are not affected in the slightest, mothers are born.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U223	Thank you. Please, Tavi Cloth, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U224	Thank you. First of all, the friendly observation that support and compensation are certainly not synonymous in the Estonian social system and thus cannot be considered in the report. I think you have spoken very interestingly and rightly that child support should focus on the needs of people, especially those in need. At the same time, the Social Democrats have opposed the need-basedisation of children's benefits. I see a strong contradiction between your previous and current speeches. But my question is that this bill wouldn't solve a speck or, if so, a speck of the money needed for this child benefit, because if my memory doesn't fool me, it's about a few percent that could save you from the parental benefit budget. Do you know exactly what these amounts are and confirm that they are completely different orders of magnitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U225	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U226	Thank you for your question. I should answer you later. You, as a person, as an employee of the state budget, should be very well aware of the difference between support and compensation. As we know, we have family benefits and family benefits include parental benefits. If you're telling me that parental benefit is not an allowance, I'm arguing against you. Those who have never received a salary also receive parental benefit, that is, they are still supported, they have not received a salary before. So I'm sure it's support.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U227	Thank you. Good waitress! I ask you to find out what the next steps are for the Socialists. At the moment, you are proposing a reduction in parental benefit. Do you plan to make changes in the payment of maternity benefit in the future, or do you agree that the 140-day maternity benefit could remain the way it is today, i.e. that it depends on 100% of the person's previous contribution and taxes paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U228	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U229	Thank you. First of all, we don't have any plans like this. In fact, our plan is to increase the support of a single parent child, so that it no longer doubles the amount of child benefit, but seven levels of child benefit. The compensation you mentioned here, we have no intention of reducing. Those are two completely self-obsessed things.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U230	Dear waitress, We heard a statement here that parental benefit has significantly increased the birth rate in Estonia. If, in spite of the extraordinary generosity of the Reform Party and the ugly constraints of the Social Democratic Party against a few percent of women of childbearing age, the birth rate in Estonia is, however, catastrophicly reduced in the nearest years due to some demographic-biological patterns, as we have heard, do you see any possibility of changing demographic-biologic patterns through this parental benefit law, as is probably done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U231	Waitress, I'm sorry for a moment. Mr. Riisalu, if you want to talk to your colleagues, you can do this without disturbing the waitress. Thank you! Heljo Pikhof, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U232	Thank you for your question. Compared to the nine months of last year, there have been 785 fewer births this year. And what makes people think is how to raise children. If there's confidence that I can have my children in this country...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U233	If parents know that they can raise their children here, provide them with a decent childhood, give them a proper education, more children will be born. Children are not born unless we are sure that we will be insured in the same way after the end of the parental benefit period. The state must provide assurance that every child is welcome. Right now, we have foreign children and we have our own children. Some of the children who live in families that are insured receive very generous money from the state, and the children of other families, we take students' children, the country lacks money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U234	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U235	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good waitress! You said very nicely that the final decision whether or not a child is born will still be made by a woman. I totally agree with that. At the same time, even surveys confirm that Estonian women are giving birth to as many children as they believe they can raise on their own. What do you say to the fact that, now that single parent child support is rising, could this increase the confidence of our women in tomorrow's day, both for those who have a partner and for those who do not? That they are really confident that they will be able to raise a child, whatever the circumstances of the country are or whether they have a job or not, that the child will be able to live a full life and develop in a way that is right and good. Do you think it'll help?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U236	Thank you. This will certainly help and, above all, it will certainly help to raise children who have already been born today. We can't just think about having new and new children, we need to think about how these children grow up, how they feel. As we know, studies show, as I said before, that if you're from a poor family, you can't go to music school when you're a kid, where other kids go to exercise, music school, you stay home. In puberty, other kids go to a birthday party, a movie, a theater, you stay home, and one day you make sure you don't have any friends. Kids talk, even go to the cafeteria, but if you still don't have a cent in your pocket, you're on the street while the others are at the cafeteria, the theatre or the movies. How do you think this will make a child feel? We still have to think about these things, too, how children living in a single parent's family, who are under double pressure, do not think that this child is not thinking about where his father is, etc. Most men in this hall, you might want to think about how these women raise their children.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U237	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U238	Thank you. I did not get the answer to my question, which is why you have chosen such a technical solution, not a substantive one. A substantive solution would be where child support would depend on income per child as a single household member. For example, let us compare a family of two unemployed parents and a family of a wealthy single parent. Why have you chosen such a technical solution, not a substantive one?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U239	Thank you, Liisa-Ly! If you call a technical solution material support, I don't get it. Is parental benefit a technical solution? In fact, we want to increase the support of a single parent child so that children grow up so that they do not mostly live in deep poverty. These women, as I said at the beginning, do not earn as much as we do here in the Riigikogu. The pay gap between men and women is very large in Estonia, to the detriment of women. A lot of women get a minimum or a close salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U240	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you very much for this thorough explanation. I would just like to clarify how many of these drafts concern, I wonder how many single mothers there are in the Republic of Estonia. Am I right to remember that these women are about the town of Viljandi?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U242	Thank you. I was just looking at the bill. I'm telling you now, children are 23213. There's a little less women. This figure has remained roughly the same for ten years. At some point it's also been 25,000, that's the range of children.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U243	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U244	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I understand that a single parent within the meaning of law is a single mother or a single father. A few times, however, I have read about such cases, and in the summer of Saaremaa, I met my grandmother, who was raising a boy. The boy's parents have gone abroad and disappeared without a trace, and the second year gives no sign of itself. Do you think it is possible to make such difficult changes to the law that the single grandmother or a single aunt in whose family the child grows is also a single parent within the meaning of that law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U245	Thank you. I repeat, Father certainly cannot be a single parent in this law. But there's also the wording "lost unknowingly." If the parents are missing, you can apply for the support of a single parent child for a certain period of time. What else I would like to say: we cannot only stress that we have a basic measure, parental benefit, which aims to have more children born into Estonia. Although this has not helped much, as the studies show, parental benefit is a very good measure in itself, I stress that. Kids are born in Estonia, but then they go away, go to Finland, go to Sweden, where there is a better environment for children, where children are thought of, where every child is important, and mostly these families do not come back here. Mikhail, I forgot exactly how the question was, but if you say it again, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U246	Thank you. We will go to the next question, you can specify later, after the hearing. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U247	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I've always had my ears cut, that in the context of this law, my father doesn't mean anything. I do not understand how Marianne Mikko, as the guardian of equality, can still be in the Chamber at all, and we do not have a protest movement in front of the castle right now. I have been a single father, not a newborn child, but there have been cases in the press where fathers have taken a newborn child from the maternity home because the mother has escaped. So what happens to these fathers, I ask, where is justice here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U248	Thank you for your question. Now I remember what I wanted to say to Mikhail. In fact, there are two things themselves: the support of a single parent child, but there is still a living allowance. And paying for a living in our country is very bad. What is in the current law is that maintenance can be claimed three months before the trial is ridiculous. This must certainly be changed, as the number of single parents, single fathers, has increased. As it happens, one parent gets tired of raising a child. In our society, however, the idea is emerging that if Mom and Dad get into a fight with each other, it's not like it's a matter of the state, who will take care of the child, that they will solve the problem themselves. The procedure for the payment of maintenance allowance must definitely be changed; this law needs very thorough corrections. This is not the way forward: one parent avoids raising a child, does not pay a living allowance or does not help in any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U249	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U250	Thank you. Dear waitress, If I understand correctly, Mr Clothes had serious concerns about those parents who were supposed to have thousands and who earn more than three months' average salary. That maybe they've already done the baby, given that they're getting the three average salary parental benefit, and now we're breaking the principle of their legitimate expectations. Perhaps, then, we could discuss the entry into force of this law in nine months' time, so that my colleague in clothing could also agree to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U251	Thank you for your comment. In fact, I also said before that the law will enter into force in ten months' time. But a few more numbers. The maximum amount of parental benefit is currently 466 and the minimum monthly salary for those receiving parental benefit is 2409. Both recipients of the minimum wage and those who have not worked before receive the same amount of compensation, EUR 278. So those who receive this benefit at the minimum rate are nearly 6,000 and those who receive the maximum rate are 466. There are a number of people between three and two middle earners, and I don't have the exact data.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U252	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U253	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm going to repeat my question because I didn't get an answer that I could understand. If a man takes a newborn child from the maternity home on the third day because the mother of that child has disappeared, has the father given birth to the same status as the mother in the context of your law, or does he have a special status? If he has a special condition, I'm saying you treat sex unequally.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U254	Thank you, Aivar Riisalu! I think you agree with me that the woman still gave birth to this child, which is because on the third day you took that child from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U255	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U256	I'm really worried about Riisalu and all the single dads, of course. In understanding the concerns of Riisalu, I have the question of what is a proportionate relationship. Could one say that half of the single parents are fathers and half of the mothers who raise children, or what is the number?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U257	Thank you for your question. 96% of those with children and raising children alone are mothers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U258	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! I would ask for a co-report from Remo Holsmer, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U259	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The 98th draft was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs on Monday 14 November. The bill was presented by Heljo Pikhof, who also presented the contents of the bill to you very thoroughly. On the one hand, it is proposed to reduce the threshold for parental benefit from three to two average salaries and, on the other hand, to increase the allowance for a single parent child by 3.5 times compared to the current one. The Commission's discussion was rather brief. The Commission raised the question of where to find financial coverage for the proposals made in the budget. If, on the one hand, I relied on the data of the initiator of the bill to reduce the threshold for parental benefits would save the state EUR 3 million, an increase in the single parent contribution would increase the budget costs by 14,4 million. In this respect, a minor correction to the introduction of the bill was said by Mrs Pikhof that the cost of single parent support was 1.1 million euros. The text of your explanatory statement contains 14.4% million. As I said, the debate was relatively short, because the initiator did not specify where the difference between the EUR 3 million and EUR 14,4 million would be covered. The conversation was about the same as yesterday when we discussed the Socialist draft on the reduction of electric excise duty. The answer was, if you find the money, you're good accountants, take it out of the wall! That was the debate. As a result, the Commission proposed that the first reading should not be completed by 6 votes: 4. A consensus was reached on the fact that we have this draft here today at reading, and I was appointed co-rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U260	Thank you very much for the waitress. Please, Heljo Pikhof, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U261	Thank you. Maybe I'll go over what I said before. I told you 1.5 million would be extra money this year, but we're talking about two months! I also said in the Commission that the draft will be in force in ten months' time. Let's subtract from the same 14 what we're saving from the parental benefit, and then we get 12 months' pay. This is a very simple calculation and we have also highlighted one month's savings in the form of parental benefit. So I'm going to repeat that this year would be 1.5 million. And I never said to take money from the wall, it's not true, it's from the state budget. I think they'll find 1.5 million if they want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U262	Thank you. I didn't hear the question. Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U263	Thank you. Dear waitress, You said that there are scissors between savings and costs in this bill, 3 million and 14.4% million. However, you said that the debate in the Commission was quite short. Did the Commission discuss other possible solutions, such as increasing single parent support not 3.5 times, but a little less? I don't think you're denying the fact that 38% of single parent households live in poverty. This is a very serious problem that should certainly be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U264	Thank you. No, such a proposal was not discussed separately in the Commission. I would add that we were also presented with the government's position. For the sake of regularity, I should stop at it for a little while. The government also does not support the draft. One of the fundamental differences between what is offered and what is held by the government is that the parental benefit law is not aimed at supporting those in need, but is aimed at reconciling work and family life. This is a demographic measure, not social support. Here are some other reasons why the government did not support this bill, but you can read them from the material.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U265	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U266	Thank you. As I was told, this debate lasted seven to ten minutes, although I have no minutes ahead of me. If ten minutes are discussed over the fate of 20,000 people, I have such a populist question: if the fate of the entire Estonian people were discussed in the Social Committee, how much time would it take?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U267	Thank you for your question. It is very difficult for me to speculate on how long such a debate could take. However, in this regard, perhaps the wrong impression has been given that the Members of the Commission have not taken the matter into consideration. Pretty sure they got worse, including the chairman of the committee. The rapporteur also had little incentive to provide additional information to the other members of the committee. We discussed the issue of funding, we listened to what the initiator of the draft is all about. So don't get me wrong, we actually dealt with the problem very seriously. Since this may not have been so concrete in the number of minutes, it does not mean that we have failed or not taken this topic seriously in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U268	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U269	Thank you. In the Commission, I always assume that the draft has been read. The Socialist draft was very comprehensive and I answered all the questions. The Indian will have to show you. But my question concerns the signed statement by Mr Pevkur on this draft. It states: "The initiators of the draft consider that the parental benefit paid in double average wages is sufficient to compensate for the loss of income and does not put these families at risk of poverty. This view has not been supported by an analysis. ' My question is, what analysis has supported the view that the parental benefit ceiling must certainly be three times the average, that otherwise people fall into poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U270	Thank you. First of all, when you say that the draft has been done very thoroughly, I cannot agree with you here. Not all questions have been answered; other Members of the Commission can also acknowledge this. It is the same subject of the budget, i.e. where a cover is found for the proposals made. As for the government's position, it is difficult for me to comment on Hanno Pevkur's letter. You'll have to ask him for his arguments. Everything's been delivered to you here, and I'm certainly not going to speak for him.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U271	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U272	Thank you. Honourable performer! Would you describe to me a little bit more precisely what this means if the guardian of the bill does not have the inspiration of the Commission? Does he nap or shut up or isn't adequate? What do you mean, no enthusiasm? There was enthusiasm in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U273	Thank you. This question arose from how long we discussed the draft in committee. It was purely my speculation that perhaps the draft waitress did not have the kind of faith to convince us of the goodness of the bill. And when we asked about funding, we really didn't get an answer to that. After that, the committee chairman put the draft to the vote and I presented it to you here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U274	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Remo Holsmer! Let's open the negotiations. I'm asking for a speech chair in Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U275	Thank you. In this technical debate, I would like to give one substantive reason why the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union do not support this draft. We believe that the child must be the one supported. Imagine Kat and Mati, who will meet, having a child in nine months. For any reason, Kati decides that the birth certificate will only be written by herself, receiving more support. That's a lot of motivation. In twenty years, Mati's a rich man, and he's got a third more pay, but he doesn't even know he's got a kid. The child is deprived of his father, of his support, of any inheritance, and of all the higher wages. We are of the opinion that the child should receive support from the Estonian social system in such a way that it does not depend on how many cells have been filled in on the birth certificate. The basis should be the needs of this child. Whether she is a single parent, she should be raised by an aunt or uncle or Aivar or Kati and Mati, both of whom have been unemployed for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U276	Thank you very much. Please, Eiki Nestor, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U277	Good manager! I have a procedural question. The presentation by the Commission's co-rapporteur did not give me any enthusiasm or understanding that anyone in the Commission wanted to discuss anything. What do we do now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U278	We're moving on to the agenda. Since there are no more calls, I will close the negotiations. The commission's proposal was to reject the 98th draft. We're preparing for the voting procedure. I will put to the vote the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Parental Compensation Act and the State Family Benefits Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 98. Please take a stand and vote. 50 votes for, 37, no abstentions. The proposal was supported and the draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U279	Honourable Riigikogu! We will proceed to the third item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2011 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, for a chair as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now pass on to you the information related to the third reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2011 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission discussed the draft on 21 November. Kaie Koskaru, Head of the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in the meeting. No amendments were received by the political groups and committees of the Riigikogu. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, drafted two amendments and both amendments were taken into account in a fully consensual manner. The first of these is the redeployment of expenditure within the Ministry of Justice, and this is due to the funding of the executive edition of the Constitution issued in connection with the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Estonian Constitution. The second provides for the earlier entry into force of the law if you look at the table of your amendments, it will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. When you look at the draft itself, the government submitted it to the Riigikogu on 24 October. The amendments provided for in the Draft Amending Budget Act 2011 specify the costs incurred by ministries for the current year. The volume of revenue and expenditure in the budget has not changed. During the procedure in the Riigikogu, eight additional changes in costs and financial transactions due to the need have already been introduced in the draft. Their need became clear as soon as the bill was submitted to the Riigikogu. All the changes have mostly been technical. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on 23 November, that is to say today, to close the third reading and to put it to a final vote. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U281	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Sven Sester! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendment 1 and Amendment 2 are both from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission proposes that they be fully taken into account. We shall proceed to the final vote on Bill 114. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft Act 114 amending the State Budget Act 2011 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 57, against 2, no abstentions. Bill 114 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U282	The fourth item on today's agenda is the third reading of the draft law 92 on amendments to private school law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests for negotiation? There's no call. I shall put the draft to the final vote. I will put to the final vote draft law 92 on the amendment of private school law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 58 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. Bill 92 of the Private School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U283	Our fifth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests? There's no call. We are preparing for the final vote. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act 83, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 65 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. Draft Act 83 amending the Electricity Market Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U284	The sixth item on the agenda, the third reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any requests? There's no call. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law 106 amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 73 votes in favour, no respondents, no abstentions. Draft 106 Act amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U285	We are going to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act 111 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and Jersey, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Mr Kallo, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U286	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this draft for a second reading on 15 November 2011. No amendments had been received by the deadline and therefore no further discussion had arisen in the Commission. The Commission made a consensual decision to put the draft on the agenda on 23 November, i.e. today, to close the second reading and put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U287	Thank you very much. There are no questions for the rapporteur. You don't want to open negotiations. We are preparing for the final vote. I will put to the final vote draft Act 111 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and Jersey, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 69 in favour, no respondents, no abstentions. Draft 111 initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U288	On the eighth item, the second reading of the draft Act 112 on the ratification of the Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Avoidance, signed in Singapore on 18 September 2006, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore. I would like to present a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U289	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, At first reading, the draft was on 9 November. The deadline for amendments was 14 November at 6 p.m. No amendments were received at that time. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft for the second time on 15 November 2011 and decided to put the draft on the agenda on 23 November, to close the second reading and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U290	Thank you very much. There are no questions for the rapporteur. You don't want to open negotiations. We are preparing for the final vote procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 112 on ratification of the Protocol to Prevent Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Avoidance Agreement, signed in Singapore on 18 September 2006 between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore. Please take a stand and vote. 64 votes in favour, no respondents, no abstentions. Draft Act 112 initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U291	On the ninth item, the second reading of the draft Act 103 on amendment of the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the chair of the Chair of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U292	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Riigikogu discussed amendments to the Aviation Act, the Maritime Safety Act and the Railway Act in this very hall on 26 October. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups within the prescribed deadline. However, the initiator made three proposals to the lead committee for consideration. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft again on 14 November and the specialists of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Hindrek Allvee and Jens Haug also participated in the discussion. When we talk about the three proposals that the initiator made, only one of them is substantive, it concerns the appointment of the head of the Safety Investigation Centre. As a result of the discussions, we introduced an amendment according to which the Head of the Safety Investigation Centre will be appointed by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. The content of the amendment is to ensure greater independence and freedom for the Head of the Safety Investigation Centre. The second amendment was linguistic and the third amendment concerned the date of entry into force of the law, which is now set at 1 January 2012. The commission decided to send the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a Proposal for a second reading to be completed on 23 November 2004. If the second reading is completed, the third reading will take place on 7 December with a proposal for a draft law. We made all the decisions in the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U293	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee proposes that full account be taken of. The second amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee proposes that full account be taken of. The third amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee proposes that full account be taken of. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U294	We are going to the next 10th item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit, the Act on artificial insemination and embryo protection, the Act on Unemployment Insurance and the Law on the Amendment of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U295	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Here I give you an overview of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit and the Unemployment Insurance Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. This is the final title after the corresponding amendments are accepted. First of all, I would like to give an overview of the general objectives of the draft. First of all, to reduce the availability of alcohol and to increase the revenue from the state budget, excise duties on alcohol will be increased by 5% next year. Secondly, to better manage the cash flow and debt requirements of the general government and legal entities in the government sector, the funds of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund are consolidated with the Treasury's reserves. The third important point is that due to the increased risks in the global economy and the need to control the increased government deficit, the possibility of lending to local authorities will be limited next year in such a way that the net debt burden will not increase by more than 60% of the revenues of the core business. In its original form, the draft also included issues relating to the more effective organisation of in vitro fertilisation and embryo transplantation, as well as changes to the salary arrangements of the prosecutor's office, but as a result of its internal debate, the Committee on Monetary Affairs withdrew its proceedings on these two issues within the framework of this draft. The reason was that there are far more competent committees to discuss these issues in substance. The Committee on Finance also sent these committees a proposal to this effect and specific drafts have been launched on these provisions today. As the draft contained important provisions concerning local authorities, the sickness fund and the unemployment fund, the Commission specifically convened consultations and round tables, which took place on 15 November. As part of our meeting, we met with representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and representatives of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the Estonian Employers' Confederation. We have heard the views of these interest groups and the explanations that the Ministry of Finance will clarify. When it comes to amendments, the Social Democratic Party Group tabled six amendments and the Estonian Centre Party Group tabled three amendments by the deadline. The Commission discussed a draft of 100 at first reading. a on 8 and 15 November. Four of these amendments were of consensual support (there were at the time nine proposals in total) and three other amendments were proposed by the Commission. One amendment concerning the entry into force provision was withdrawn by the author at the meeting of the Commission. There are, therefore, 11 amendments before you at the moment. When looking at the amendments and commenting on one and the other separately, proposal No 2 clarifies the organisation of the transfer of funds from the sickness fund and the unemployment fund to the national group account. Proposal No 4 specifies, on the basis of a proposal from the representative of the initiator, the limits on the lending of local government in the Law on the financial management of the local government, in such a way that if the net indebtedness of the municipality corresponds to a ceiling of more than 60%, for example, this municipality is not a breach of the law. As a result of the amendment, such municipalities will have the possibility to receive external aid support, but then it must be taken into account that if this position is more than 60%, no more loans can be taken to cover their own shares. It is more clearly stated that only municipalities with a net debt ratio below 60% may take on debt, with the subsequent net debt burden of the additional loan not exceeding 60% of the revenues of the core business being increased. In accordance with Amendments 5 and 6 and 8 and 9, the aforementioned amendments to the Act on Artificial Fertilisation and Embryo Protection and the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office are deleted from the draft. That is why the title of the bill, from which I started today when I came to this address, has also changed. I would like once again to pay attention to the problem of the so-called 'package proposal' sectorism. This time, a solution was found in good cooperation with the sectoral committees through the dismantling of the draft in substance and as a result of correspondence between the Finance Committee, the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister. However, the processing of the draft package in other aspects is certainly worth even better practice in the future and seeking a solution so that such situations do not arise. By proposal No 11, the Commission postponed the entry into force of the increase in excise duties on alcohol by one month. Originally this date was 1 January, the Commission's proposal is 1 February. In their approach, the deadline originally set in the draft was considered too short and their explanations, which they provided in written form, were the basis for the Commission to move that date forward by one month. Finally, our decisions. The proposal of the Committee on Finance is to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is closed, to put the draft on the plenary agenda for the third reading. a on 7 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U296	Thank you. You have questions. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Would you be so kind as to report again the title of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U298	Thank you. Any more questions? A procedural question, please, Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U299	Of course I'm so good, and I'll report the title again if you want me to. It's going to be like this: '2012. The Act amending the Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the local government unit and the Act on unemployment insurance, in connection with the State Budget Act 1994'.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U300	I understand the question was put to me. I'm asking the waitress to be more specific!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U301	Thank you. I thank Kalle Laanet for asking him to read the title again. On the agenda that has been distributed, we are dealing with a draft with a different title than the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U302	Thank you. When you noticed, I said that this law will be called after we have voted through the amendments. At this point in time, the amendments to the Embryo Protection Act and the provisions governing the salary arrangements of the prosecutor's office have not really been voted out, but I specifically mentioned that if we vote through these amendments, this law will finally be called that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U303	Thank you for that clarification. No further questions. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U304	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. When we talk about this bill, we see that it is a typical cluster law that does not allow members of the Riigikogu individually to approach any legislative amendment individually. In this sense, it is very difficult to vote because there are both good aspects and conflicting points in the bill. Now, when it comes to the amendment of the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, this amendment makes very few changes to excise duties on electricity of 5%. It is acknowledged that this is a small tax increase and will receive about 10 million euros in the state budget. But let us be clear, this tax increase shows that coalition partners also understand that certain tax changes are needed in our country and that additional tax receipts are needed. In particular, I would point out that everyone could still go into the draft progressive income tax. This bill says that this small tax change is acceptable to trade and consumers do not notice such an increase in tax, but there is far from any in-depth analysis of how much the amendment affects the secret market. The Estonian Merchant Association has sent a memo to the Monetary Commission that the share of contraband as high as the Estonian Conjuncture Institute has announced is a major concern for merchants. When we talk about the percentage of contraband, smugglers hold 31% of the cigarette market and 25% of the vodka market. At this point, we could ask what is better to channel taxpayers' money to the Tax and Customs Board, which is supervising more closely the whole market, which has a positive impact on the state budget, or simply to increase excise duty, which increases the smuggling market. With regard to the Health Insurance Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, the government naturally justifies the situation by the fact that pooling funds with the Treasury and single management ensure better management of the government's cash flow and debt. At present, funds from local authorities are excluded from the management of the entire group account. The Government of the Republic also justifies this change by reducing financial risks, costs and accounting of financial assets. Administrative agreements are made to confirm and prove that legal persons can use their funds at any time • the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund. However, when we look at the recent generous distributions of funds by the Government of the Republic and, for example, the ESM fund that will be set up in the Bank for Reconstruction, we see that all these reserves will be used very quickly for the same purpose. The question arises: if liquid resources still run out, how will the use of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund be ensured? As regards the Law on the financial management of the local government unit, at the end of this year the exceptional loan limit imposed on 1 March 2009 will end and all local authorities expected that, as a result of the amendment to the Law on financial management, they would be able to take larger loans, thus making larger investments. However, the loan rate of 60% will remain in place in 2012 and the possibility of borrowing will only increase from 2013. I'd like to say...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U305	Good waitress, would you like some extra time? Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U306	... that the State has put itself in a stronger position, where the State has the possibility to use liquid resources through the group fund, but local authorities have again remained in a more difficult position. Against this background, the Centre Party Group proposes that the second reading of bill 100 be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U307	Speaking chair, Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U308	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It's difficult to give this speech. There is more debate on this draft, more debate on one subject, less debate on another. As regards the Law on the Financial Management of Local Government, I am simply saying that the law passed a long, thorough, serious discussion in the previous Riigikogu and also worked with local authorities. To change this law now is, in my opinion, merely impertinence towards them. I want to talk to you about the reserves that are being hijacked. It is said that there has been debate on this issue too, at least that is what they are trying to say. This debate has failed at all. Do you know why? Because gentlemen named Ansip and Ligil have not understood at all what the debate is about. Open your computers, read the latest news: Estonian employers marched out of both the Health Insurance Board and the Unemployment Insurance Board. They've never hidden it. Why are they doing this? They simply do so because, for example, unemployment insurance has been created in cooperation between government, trade unions and employers, and the structure on which it is based has long been agreed. Estonian employers, and believe me, the trade unions are tired of Ansip and Ligi breaking down and then they look out behind their backs and say: oh, but we disagree. The name of this thing is not social dialogue, the name of this thing is something else and their message is simple. So what's the real debate about that you don't understand? Of course, if there is a greater amount of money together, it will be easier and easier to manage, and there will be an opportunity to earn more. The Ministry of Finance, in honour of the truth, has never supported the scheme that it has now, not even when these two insurances were born. The Minister of Finance was against the Health Insurance Act at the meeting of the Government, but the Government approved the draft and the Riigikogu passed. Unemployment insurance in this form was also accepted in such a way that it would rather be okay, but the Minister of Finance did not support it. It's a matter of principle. It cannot be done in the country that the Ministry of Finance tells everyone, including in the case of special-purpose insurances, what must be done. In the country, things can only be done by other ministries telling the Ministry of Finance what it should do. There is a danger of seeing targeted money today! Maybe what happens if they act the other way around? We collect money for high-payment unemployment insurance. Let's pay it out. There's a lot of people out there who don't have insurance rights right now. These amounts should not be covered by 30% of the visitors, but by 60 to 70%. But no, that's not what we're doing, it's against the government. So, what are we gonna collect him for? There's a reserve of 400 million next year, over that already. No, we're balancing the budget with it. That's not exactly what you're supposed to do! The government must balance the budget with other methods in circumstances where unemployment is high. What, then, will we ultimately achieve by doing so? I'm sorry the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance agree. Honestly, I don't understand you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U309	Let me give you a simple example. After all, we would have exactly the same financial result if we raised income tax and reduced the payment of unemployment insurance to the same level of income and expenditure of the state. We can't do that because the picture of Friedman in Ansip's office or the bedroom falls off, gets shattered. So what are we fooling these people with this low income tax rate? Why do we absolutely consciously have to beat aside in the organisation of the already barely permanent cooperation of the Estonian state, drive out those people who pay their wages in Estonia and have managed social security successfully for ten years without money so far? Still so that they can keep their promises so that Friedman's picture doesn't fall down or get shattered for God's sake! This approach that the Ministry of Finance is everything is very dangerous. There will be no development! The Ministry of Finance, too, must once offer sources of cover, find solutions and not solutions where the purpose of the money has already been determined in advance. Everyone knows he's being collected, used, and no one's taking him away. It is absolutely arrogance to claim that nothing will change for the health insurance fund, for example. Yes, it will! He's keeping his money with the Treasury today, but he knows that money can't be used for anything else. When unemployment insurance money was once placed, several options were also considered where to keep it. And there was only one reason why the holding of money in the Treasury was abandoned (in other words, it was supported at the time by the Head of the Treasury, who was a member of the Council): it is foolishness when we have all the reserves in one place. Rather, it makes sense to keep them in different places, the risks are lower. Now we take new risks, put this money together. Let's do stupidity, kill two insurance. And all for tax to go down! Tear comes out of the eye, lucky with sadness.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U310	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U311	Of course, I'm only halfway there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U312	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U313	Thank you very much. I'll have Kalle Laaneti next.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U314	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I am speaking, as has been the case recently, two on one principle, i.e. this draft and the next draft. The common denominator is in both cases a cluster bill. But I'll start with praise. I congratulate the Committee on Monetary Affairs for being able to uncouple two substantive drafts from this draft, although we also saw confusion in the Chamber on the presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, because we did not understand what draft legislation we were actually discussing. This creates a great deal of confusion when we have a huge number of drafts of different content gathered under one of the draft laws. We recall President Ilves' speech in this Chamber on 12 September 2011. I will start by quoting: 'It is no longer appropriate to process legislative amendments together for the time being. I beg you, take your time, discuss different areas of life separately. ' Are we gonna do this? No, I'm not. So we don't consider the President's prayers to be anything. It is not only a matter of misleading headlines when dealing with a cluster bill, but because of different content, there is also a huge confusion about the fact that if, for example, I want to be in favour of certain points in the draft, but also against some, I need to think again about how I am voting now. The compensatory measures have caused serious confusion at the most diverse levels of the Riigikogu, starting with the members of the Riigikogu, and I understand that it is up to the Riigikogu's board. The Board of the Riigikogu has also had to make memos to the government and committees signed by the Chairman. In the future, we should think very seriously about which government drafts we are discussing and which are not. But what's done is done. Let us try to move forward by learning from our mistakes, which on very many occasions is not wanted to be made in the Riigikogu. But maybe we'll go another way this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U315	Thank you very much. Please, Sven Sester, the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U316	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, To some extent, I was motivated by a good colleague, Eiki Nestor, who was in this chair a little while ago. I am not going to dwell on those points in the bill that talk about local government or raising alcohol duty, let it be that side. Since a good colleague, Nestor, spent most of his speaking time on the subject of sickness and unemployment funds, I thought I would say a few words for myself. There is one thing we need to understand in this Chamber: the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund is not created by itself and has not been set up by trade unions or employers; it has been done by the Estonian state with its own laws. That's the first thing. It is a legal entity governed by public law and has been set up by the State as an independent legal entity in order to confer certain public tasks on it in order to fulfil its obligations. The tasks which the State envisages for a specific public institution are therefore also those which the State considers reasonable to transfer and not to create any separate public body. Consequently, a legal person governed by public law cannot already have tasks which would not be part of the State's own tasks. Moreover, a legal person governed by public law cannot have tasks greater than that of the State; it cannot define its legal personality. Nor can a legal person governed by public law have rights or obligations the boundaries of which would be excluded from being determined by the State. When it comes to the content of a specific amendment, what really happens? What happens is that the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund keep their free money in their accounts, they are merged with the national bank accounts in the group, and the Treasury manages the cash flows of the state and the cash registers in a uniform manner. It is very important to mention that the savings contracts are concluded that they are not loan agreements, but savings contracts, because the cash of the cashiers is on their accounts. They shall have an unlimited right to make payments at any time for the performance of their basic tasks. This is a very important indication to take away this fear as if there were no more owners of their money. There is an unlimited right to use your money for basic tasks. The State will pay interest on it. Now, if you look at the benefits of the health insurance fund and the unemployment fund, you want or you don't, but the management of the health insurance fund and the unemployment fund doesn't deal with support functions, i.e. the management of financial assets, that's specifically a support function. That is not their aim and their task, they do not invest, they do not supervise. This is not their task today, and it should not be their task in the future. Cost savings are much easier for such portfolio management, bank service fees, and accounting will also be simplified. Eiki Nestor's claim that we keep eggs in different baskets is, in my opinion, completely the opposite in this logic. Why? I'll give you an example. Financial specialists managing the assets of the Unemployment Insurance Fund take the decision to direct money to a specific A-bond, no matter what A is, the health insurance fund specialists take the same decision to refer it to the same specific A-bond, and ultimately the Treasury will adopt that decision. We are achieving the opposite effect of the three different institutions' financial specialists have taken the decision to refer exactly to the same bond. When it comes to the Treasury, i.e. the effect of the overall scale, these things do not happen. In that case, a general, global decision will be taken by the Treasury. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U317	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U318	I have a few things to say, too. I'm only halfway there. So, cost savings, liquidity. Financial risks are significantly lower. If the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund now want to invest their financial resources, they will inevitably take the risk and receive a risk premium, interest. If they do so through the Treasury group account, they will receive interest, but they will not have any risk of being paid out at any time. It's an important nuance. If you ask whether the country has any benefits, then yes, of course the country will also have benefits. Firstly, the effects of scale, the same investment volumes and more efficient management, the lower fees, the real improvement of the overall quality of public finances. It is the management of cash flow and financial risks within the whole sector. These are important nuances. It's true, I don't understand what fears we're dealing with. I have said this several times before and I will say this here too. I will also look at today's news, which Eiki Nestor mentioned, and I can see that it is: 'Employers are leaving the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Board to protest'. I quote: 'Employers consider that if the government joins the reserves of the sickness and unemployment fund with the Treasury, then the government should also take full responsibility, so that the representative of the Employers' Confederation does not have the point of sitting on social fund councils. ' What responsibility? What are we talking about? The state is responsible for all things anyway! What's the problem? True story, I don't understand this problem. From time to time, a question has arisen or the question arises that it is interesting whether anyone has a very clear interest in dealing with investment services, so I would really understand this. So at least I could say no from my heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U319	Thank you very much. Please, Eiki Nestor, two minutes from the scene!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U320	Thank you. I won't be that long. Since my name was named, I have the right to object. Colleagues, understand that the Riigikogu is not a state, and Jürgen Ligi is not a public sector! The country is also employers, workers, farmers, teachers ♪ it's all in the country together. The Riigikogu is only a Riigikogu. And if you don't understand it, there's really no hope that anything will be understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U321	Are you done? Thank you. Sven Sester, please, about two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U322	Thank you, Madam President. I listened to what Eiki Nestor said. Since I'm naming his name, he can say something again, but I totally agree with him. I fully agree with him: the state is not just the Riigikogu. I won't argue with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U323	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. There are 11 amendments. Amendment 1 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee proposes that no account be taken of. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U324	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U325	We're going to prepare the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. For 34, 49 against, no abstentions. Amendment 1 was not supported. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which proposes that it be fully taken into account. Amendment 3 is from the Social Democratic Party Group. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U326	We will vote on this amendment. Let's get ready for the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Proposal by the Steering Committee: to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. With the result of 39 against 49, Amendment 3 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party was rejected. Amendment 4. This has been done by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the lead committee proposes that full account be taken of. Amendment 5 This has been done by the Estonian Centre Party Group, and the lead committee proposes to take full account of it. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is to take full account. Amendment 7. This has been done by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U327	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U328	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U329	We are preparing the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote Amendment 7 by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Proposal by the Steering Committee: to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. For 39, against 48, no abstentions. Amendment 7 was not supported. Amendment No 8 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee proposes that full account be taken of. Amendment 10 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U330	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U331	Got it. We're preparing for the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 10 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. For 39, against 48, no abstentions. Amendment 10 was not supported. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission proposes that it be fully taken into account. With this, we have examined all the amendments. Two proposals have been submitted to the Board of the Riigikogu. The faction of the Estonian Centre Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, artificial insemination and embryo protection law, unemployment insurance law and the Prosecutor's Office Act in relation to the State Budget Act 2012. The Bureau has also received a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group. The Social Democratic Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of the 100 drafts. Since these are essentially the same proposals, I will put these proposals to the vote at once. We're preparing for the voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party to interrupt the second reading of the 100th draft. Please take a stand and vote. 38 votes to 47, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of bill 100 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U332	Ladies and gentlemen, Agenda item No 11 is the second reading of the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, the laws relating to the transfer of the Courts' Accounting Centre to the area of government of the Ministry of Finance, the State Budget Act and the draft law on the amendment of the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto 101. Ms Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U333	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft 101 at its meeting on 15 November, where the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance Marek Helm had also been invited as a guest. Two proposals were received by the deadline for tabling amendments, by 14 November. The third, essentially technical amendment, was initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself. The first draft amendment was proposed by the National Defence Committee. Its content was to delete the words 'the Commander of the Defence Forces' from the draft in order to avoid a conflict between the Law on salaries of senior civil servants and the Defence Forces Service Act as a special law. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered this to be a constructive proposal. The second amendment was tabled by Eiki Nestor, a member of the Riigikogu, which was literally the following. I read it out: 'The agreement cannot provide for provisions that prevent the depositor from performing the duties assigned to him by law. ' The Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support the amendment, considering that they did not see the need for this sentence. There is no need to repeat the principle that contracts must comply with the law and that the law must be enforced. The draft 100, which was just done here and which amends the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, states how the funds of these cashiers will be used. It is regulated by law and there is no need to repeat it. Consequently, as I have already pointed out, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support Nestor's amendment. The third amendment was proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself because we considered that Article 85 (5) of the Government Act makes reference to an already invalid law and that such childhood should be eliminated where possible. So that's what we put in front of. In summary, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the draft be stopped. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, 2 against and 1 against. Secondly, when the second reading was closed, the Commission decided to propose the third reading on 7 December, and lastly the Commission decided to propose to the Riigikogu's management that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a law. There were 6 members in favour, 2 against, and 1 member did not vote. Finally, information on the cluster bill that my colleague Laane has already spoken about. I would just like to announce that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is planning to include in its work programme the processing of cluster drafts: explaining what is a cluster bill that is not, and how to deal with and deal with them accordingly. But it's just information about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U334	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We are going to examine the amendments. Amendment 1, made by the Committee on National Defence, proposes that it be fully taken into account. Proposal No 2 has been made by Eiki Nestor, the commission proposes that this should not be taken into account. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lead committee proposes that it be fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 101 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U335	Our next, 12th item is the first reading of Bill 124 on Amendment to the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U336	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to introduce to you draft law amending the Social Welfare Act 124. It is proposed to amend the educational requirements imposed by the draft on the authorised childcare provider and, as a second proposal, to allow the adult guardian or guardian to also appoint a guardian. Both changes will improve the current situation, and the situation that arises since 1 January, and will also reduce the obstacles encountered in everyday life. The change in the status of babysitter must enable not only those who hold a certificate of qualification as a babysitter but also graduates of pre-school education or special education or the social work profession to work as a babysitter, because they have the necessary knowledge and skills. According to the current law, as of 1 January next year, a kindergarten teacher who does not have a professional certificate would not be able to work as a babysitter for childcare services. When laying down the educational requirements of the nanny in 2007, there was no practice of providing child care services authorised in Estonia and the professional standard of the nanny had just been completed. At that time, it was decided to start using a professional standard which had not been used in the qualification requirements of other social services workers. However, time has shown that, as a babysitter, people with higher qualifications wish to work, who have no reason to be obliged to receive a certificate of qualification as a babysitter, because they already have documents to prove their education. According to the proposal, graduates of several specializations related to childcare will have the opportunity to work as a babysitter without a certificate of formal qualifications. The second amendment, which concerns custody and care, makes it possible to assign a carer to an adult person who, in addition to custody, also needs care. Unfortunately, so far, there is no regulation and in practice there have been obstacles to the appointment of a carer. The change in care extends the possibilities for the local government to organise maintenance, allowing the person in need of custody to also appoint a guardian. At the same time, people who, because of their illness or disability, need diverse help may need support and care. The guardian shall not be required to provide custody, his duties and the extent of those duties shall be determined by the court. The guardian may also need a carer who is responsible for ensuring continuous supervision and help in everyday activities. If a person needs both a carer and a guardian at the same time, the following scenarios are proposed: First, the guardian appointed by the court and the guardian appointed by the municipality as two separate persons; the second is that the court appointed the guardian and the court appointed the same person as the guardian, if the municipality considers it appropriate. The guardian and guardian are the same person. At the same time, the court may also appoint as guardian the person who has already been appointed as guardian. So it is possible to decide both ways. We certainly support the decision of the Committee on Social Affairs to conclude the first reading of the draft and to refer the draft to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U337	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would ask for a co-report from Reet Roos, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U338	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic on Monday 14 November 124. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, Merle Tomberg, Head Specialist of the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Anu Linnamägi, Acting Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The draft was presented by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The amendment to the bill will allow not only those who hold a certificate of professional babysitter but also other people who have the right knowledge and skills to work as a babysitter. We also discussed a second amendment that allows us to appoint a carer for an adult person who, in addition to guardianship, also needs care. We decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the 124 plenary sittings of the draft law be included on the agenda on 23 November and that the first reading be closed. The deadline for tabling amendments could be 30 November at 6 p.m. We made a decision by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U339	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee was to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for submitting 124 amendments on 30 November 2011 at 6 p.m. We have finished addressing this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U340	Let's go to item 13. For this purpose, the first reading of the draft 125 of the Riigikogu's decision to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is submitted by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U341	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Minister of Finance asked me to apologize for not being able to be in front of you, and asked me to be gentle enough to report this government's draft. Thus, the government has proposed to increase its participation in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) in short. The purpose of the capital increase is to respond to the increased credit needs of customers following the economic and financial crisis. Estonia's share capital increases by 247 shares, with a total value of approximately USD 30 million, to be exact, 29796845 dollars. The part paid in is 6%, i.e. approximately 1.8 million dollars, to be exact, 1787811 dollars. Contributions to the increase in participation can be made in instalments. Estonia plans to distribute payments from 2012 onwards over four years. The amount of the annual payment shall be indicatively EUR 375000. In the state budget strategy, the funds are planned for this financing transaction; in the rest, the Estonian state assumes a "potential commitment." According to the Government, the risk of realising the interest to be recovered is very low. If you look at the bank's history, since 1944 there has never been a requirement for Member States to pay the capital due. The Bank lends to governments in middle-income countries as well as low-income creditworthiness governments. The biggest borrowers have so far been India and Brazil. Between 1992 and 2006, Estonia was a customer country of the World Bank, and since 2006 the Estonian bank already has a donor country. I would, of course, propose to accept the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to proceed positively with the draft decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U342	Thank you. You have questions. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U343	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The draft law also states that the implementation of the decision will lead to direct property liabilities of 1.5 million euros for the Estonian state. These obligations are divided into four years. Are these liabilities covered by reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U344	Thank you for your question. For the sake of accuracy: this is a decision of the Riigikogu, not a law. Yes, we have proposed that these payments over four years will be EUR 375000 per year, as I said. It is not said that reserves are used for this purpose. At a specific time when this investment is made, when the time of the transfer comes, the Ministry of Finance will decide on the line from which it will be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U345	No further questions for you. Thank you very much, waitress. I would like to address Mr Andrus Saare, Member of the Monetary Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U346	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed draft 125 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development' on 14 November. Martin Põder, Head of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. The Riigikogu agrees to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development by 247 shares, according to which contributions will be made to the share capital of that bank for four years from 2012. This is done, as the previous speaker has already said, at USD 1.788 million, or around EUR 1.5 million. Now the questions and issues that were discussed in the Commission. The Bank's overall objective is to reduce poverty and improve people's standard of living in its Member States and to achieve this, financial and advisory services are provided from a comprehensive list. Estonia's share capital is 0.06%. In the 2010 accounting year, between July 2009 and June 2010, loans from the bank amounted to USD 44 billion. Estonia has not taken a loan from the bank since 2000, but Latvia, our neighbouring country, has done so. In 2006, Estonia changed its status in the bank from borrowing to donor country. Estonia plans to distribute payments of the payment plan in order to reach 6% of the share capital in real cash during the four years following 2012. The amount of the annual payment shall be indicatively EUR 375000. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on 23 November, today, to close the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 1 December at 6 p.m. These decisions were made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U347	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Andrus Island! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. I will set the deadline for tabling 125 amendments on 1 December 2011 at 6 p.m. Agenda item 13 is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U348	We are going to the next item on item 14, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on membership of the International Monetary Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Chair, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U349	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! With this bill, we propose to amend three legal acts: first, the decision of the Supreme Council on Estonia's membership of the IMF 'Consensualisation of the Republic of Estonia to join the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the associated organisations'; second, the Act on the taking and enforcement of property obligations related to the membership of international organisations by the Republic of Estonia and thirdly, the Act on Eesti Pank. In view of the desire to participate in the current and subsequent increases in the IMF quota, Eesti Pank has proposed to amend the above-mentioned legislation. Eesti Pank is also ready to pay Estonia's quota of 65.2 million SDRs, which is estimated to be 71 million euros or this starting value, and the increase in the quota is 28.7 million SDRs, or 31 million euros, to pay in itself. As a result, the law specifies the rights of Eesti Pank in taking on the property obligations of the Republic of Estonia and representing the Republic of Estonia in the IMF, representing Estonia in the IMF shareholders' council, as well as national cooperation in the IMF's work and participation in the decision-making process. All the positions of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund are presented by Eesti Pank in coordination with the Ministry of Finance. The terms and conditions of coordination are determined by an agreement between Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance. The Governor of Eesti Pank represents the Republic of Estonia after his post as shareholder in the International Monetary Fund's shareholder board. In practice, this is still the case today, but this is not explicitly stated in the law. The Government of the Republic shall also appoint a replacement to the shareholders' council. Approval of the draft law is a prerequisite for approving the increase in Estonia's participation. The government wants the draft to enter into force this year, as the agreement to increase the quota will have to be forwarded to the International Monetary Fund by the end of this year. We also support the procedural decisions taken by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U350	Thank you very much. There's a question for the waitress. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U351	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Eesti Pank will now represent the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund and all positions taken by Eesti Pank on behalf of the Republic will be coordinated with the Government of the Republic. To this end, a written agreement shall also be made setting out all the conditions. Has this written agreement been made yet? And shouldn't this written agreement be an integral part of this bill? Members of the Riigikogu could also know how, under which conditions Eesti Pank will represent the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U352	As I have already said, Eesti Pank is still representing Estonia in the International Monetary Fund. The practice has become that the Governor of Eesti Pank represents us there, and the government has the right to appoint a replacement there. As far as this agreement is concerned, the agreement cannot be concluded until there is a legal basis, i.e. a law. That's the law on the table before you right now. Therefore, the law must be passed and, once it has been done, Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance will also have the opportunity to conclude this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U353	Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U354	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This means that, beyond the entry into force of this bill, we can also consider agreements as a law. But my question is the draft on this paragraph, which gives Eesti Pank the power to participate and represent Estonia in other international organisations. Can you specify in which other organisations the bank has the right to represent our country and what powers the bank has to represent?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U355	I am not very sure that Eesti Pank will become a member of any other international organisation under this law. It would have been in here separately. What organizations are meant for can be read in the explanatory memorandum. It is clear that if we change the legislation relating to international cooperation, we must also give the Bank of Estonia these powers. Please read the third paragraph below on page 1 of the explanatory statement. Its last sentence says that 'in other international organisations Eesti Pank represents the Republic of Estonia under the authority of the Government of the Republic'. Without the mandate of the Government of the Republic, Eesti Pank cannot take any decisions or representation on its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U356	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U357	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The last sentence of that paragraph confirms that Eesti Pank can act under the authority of the Government of the Republic. But where is the role of Parliament on these issues? Is there no question of Parliament's position when an agreement is concluded with another international organisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U358	A good member of the Riigikogu could examine the legislation already in force. There is currently no new right given to Eesti Pank, the same paragraph states that the current regulation will remain in force in this respect. The parliament of the Republic of Estonia has delegated this regulation to the Government of the Republic. Parliament has previously provided for this same law that if Eesti Pank wishes to participate in an international organisation, it will require the consent of our government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U359	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. No further questions. I would like to ask Aivar Sõerdi, representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U360	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 15 and 21 November and decided by consensus, with the agreement of the representative of the initiator, after hearing the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank, to submit the draft to the first reading as amended. According to Eesti Pank's proposal, as the previous speaker said, some of the amendments to the draft decision of the Supreme Council will be transferred to the Eesti Pank Act. Accordingly, § 3 of the draft is added. The draft was also supplemented by an entry into force clause which provides for entry into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. The draft should enter into force as a law at the latest s. On the last day of the year, since the amendments are the basis for the decision to increase the participation of the Riigikogu in the International Monetary Fund pending before the Riigikogu, which will enter into force at the same time as the entry into force of this draft law, which will require the International Monetary Fund to be informed by December this year at the latest that the Estonian State is willing to participate in the quota increase. European Union law obliges national authorities to consult the European Central Bank on any draft legislative act falling within the area of competence of the European Central Bank. Today's draft is subject to consultation of the European Central Bank, but unfortunately it has not been done in time before the draft was launched in the Riigikogu. The obligation to consult also applies to the draft of amendments made to the Riigikogu during the procedure and therefore the Committee on Monetary Affairs forwarded the draft, as amended, to the European Central Bank for an opinion. The Commission hopes to obtain a position from the European Central Bank by 8 December, so it will be possible to process this law until the end of this year and to put it into effect in good time. I will also give an overview of the Commission's debate. Members of the Commission were interested in the following issues: First of all, the question was about the independence of Eesti Pank in a situation where Eesti Pank makes decisions on certain issues in agreement with the Ministry. Both the Ministry and Eesti Pank confirmed that the IMF deals with broader topics than the competence of Eesti Pank has been established, and therefore the obligation to act in a coordinated manner is laid down in matters outside the competence of Eesti Pank and within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. There was also an interest in amending the Supreme Council's decision. The answer was that the decision of the Supreme Council is the basis for participation in the IMF and must be amended by law in the light of current legal practice. It was also asked what the amount of the quota of the Estonian state will be after we decide to enforce this draft as a law. The answer was that the quota would increase by around EUR 32.6 million and be a total of EUR 106.8 million, which is 0.039% of the total IMF quota volume. There was also the question of the role of the Riigikogu in relations with the IMF. The answer was that the Riigikogu must continue to decide on an increase in the quota if the shareholders of the fund ever place it on the agenda. The Commission's consensual proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft and set the deadline of 30 November at 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U361	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Aivar Sõerd. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to finish the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 132 amendments on 30 November 2011 at 6 p.m. First reading of the bill is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U362	Next, the 15th item is the first reading of draft 133 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Accepting the Republic of Estonia to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund' submitted by the Government of the Republic. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Speaker's Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U363	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Riigikogu can agree to increase the Estonian quota in the International Monetary Fund by 28.7 million SDRs and to authorise Eesti Pank to carry out the necessary steps to increase the quota. As was heard during the discussion of the previous draft law, Estonia's quota will be 93.9 million SDRs and the Republic of Estonia's participation in the IMF will be 0.039 per cent. It is worth recalling that already on 20 October 2010, the Riigikogu ratified the amendments to the IMF Statute, which were approved in 2008, according to which Estonia's quota increased, and this draft decision proposes to pay off this increase in quota. The deposit for the increase in the quota is made by Eesti Pank in the account of its assets. If the quota is paid in international currency, the IMF will deposit funds with the central bank of the same country, i.e. the assets will remain with Eesti Pank. In the IMF balance sheet, its contributions to the central bank's balance sheet are offset, and if the IMF does not adopt it, the total amount of the central bank's balance sheet will not normally be affected by this transaction either. If the IMF uses the state's so-called reserve position, it will also pay SDR interest. The increase in the Estonian quota ratified by the Riigikogu on 20 October 2010 improved Estonia's representation in the IMF, including the possibility of obtaining loans, and increased voting rights in the decision-making process. The number of Estonian votes is currently 1393 votes, or 0.06% of all votes. As you can see, we have more votes than the total quota volume. We support the Committee on Monetary Affairs in its procedural decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U364	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U365	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Do you have information on how other Member States have behaved? Do they make payments from their state budget or do they also represent these national banks when making contributions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U366	Thank you. Not every country is going to be singled out, but as far as I know, national practices are different. Both banks and governments make decisions. I cannot say whether or not this was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but the practice of other countries can certainly be clarified through the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the Ministry of Finance. I owe you a very precise answer. It is true that the amendments to the IMF Statute, approved in 2008, have been largely ratified by the IMF membership, just as the Estonian Riigikogu ratified it in 2010. We are in this process simply where the decision ratified in 2010, which increases the number of Estonian votes, now reaches the payment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U367	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. I would like to ask Aivar Sõerdi, representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U368	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of Bill 133 is to give consent to the increase of the Estonian quota in the IMF and to authorise Eesti Pank to carry out the activities necessary to increase its participation. How much our quota is increasing, and how much of our quota will come to be from the total amount of IMF quotas, has already been dealt with by the previous speaker. Also, Eesti Pank and the government call back government bonds related to the current membership of the fund. The Finance Committee discussed the draft on 15 and 21 November with representatives of Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance. We dealt with the draft decision in the committee together with the draft 132, which provides the basis for increasing participation in the IMF through Eesti Pank. The Commission's consensual proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft. Secondly, set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 p.m. on 30 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U369	Thank you very much. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U370	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Can you comment on why we have such a decision in Estonia that these obligations are not fulfilled by the Government of the Republic, but are assumed by Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U371	Thank you. Just as the answer to your previous question, what is the practice of countries, it is very different to me, too. But you could certainly have asked the Committee on Monetary Affairs for an exhaustive review. There are very many countries in the IMF from the euro area, the European Union and other continents. This review is pretty long. It's not possible to give it here now, but if you're interested, you'll definitely get that overview. I will try to remember whether Eesti Pank or the Ministry of Finance specifically addressed this issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But we are talking about the participation of the Estonian state now, and the main thing is that we are getting more quota. We get more quota, we get more voting rights, along with the rights that result from it. The previous quota system was not very fair to our country, so the decision to increase the quota in itself is certainly favourable to us and it is important that we can also make a contribution for it. In this case, Eesti Pank and Eesti Pank have the means to do so. As you can read in the explanatory memorandum to the draft, it does not have a significant impact on Eesti Pank's balance sheet. So I believe that this solution is the most favourable for the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U372	No further questions. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 133. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 133 amendments on 30 November 2011 at 6 p.m. We have passed the 15th agenda item.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U373	We are going to the next item on item 16, and this is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like a presentation from Secretary of Defense Mart Laari.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U374	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The draft law amending the Public Procurement Act is before you, the main aim of which is to transpose into Estonian law the European directive adopted in July 2009 laying down separate rules for the conduct of defence and security procurement. The adoption and establishment of this directive aims at opening up a relatively closed defence procurement market in the European Union so far, making the organisation of defence procurement more transparent to the extent that this can be done in the light of the essential national security interests. There is a strong presumption that the majority of European defence procurements will continue to be organised in public under the Directive and that only a certain amount of restrictions will be maintained in this area. The importance of this directive for Estonia is quite clear. The directive creates more favourable opportunities for Estonian business than before to participate in defence procurement in the European Union countries, because, as I said earlier, following the adoption of this directive, Estonian companies will have much better opportunities to enter this relatively closed market. These are briefly the reasons why the transposition of this directive into Estonian law is beneficial for our country. On the other hand, we are on the verge of transposing this directive. So the benefits and the order are now successfully collapsing, and I therefore hope that the Riigikogu will adopt this draft, which has been discussed thoroughly in various authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U375	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Mart Laar. I would like to ask Mr Tõniste, Member of the Economic Commission for the Presidency, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U376	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The debate on the draft was held with the National Defence Committee on 14 November. I will give you a brief overview of the debate. The representatives of the National Defence Committee requested further clarifications on the terms translated into Estonian from the English directive. Asked whether it is legally correct to use the wording 'in the meaning of this law' in the draft text, where the directive is intended? Is the Public Procurement Act wider than the above-mentioned Directive? The representative of the Ministry of Finance replied that the Defence Procurement Directive and the Public Procurement Act as a whole relied on the Public Procurement Directive, and therefore the Ministry of Finance considered it appropriate to use the wording proposed in the draft. Another explanation was that, in more complex cases, competitive dialogue would be implemented. The European Commission recommends that the competitive dialogue be applied, for example, to PPP projects where the contracting authority's technical specifications cannot be established before the call for competition is launched. Competitive dialogue has been implemented in Estonia for major procurements, such as joint procurement organised by ministries. Third, it was said that the whole text has not been translated into Estonian compared to the original in English, while the Estonian terms have been added. The answer was that the draft was drawn up on the basis of the current Public Procurement Act. For example, the directive does not include the concept of a commodity exchange, the directive contains listed and purchased products on the raw materials market, but in 2007 the authors considered it necessary to call it a commodity exchange. The same term has been continued. The directive consists of mandatory provisions for Member States to transpose into national law and provisions which are left to the discretion of the Member States to transpose into national law. They have been analysed as to whether these are the necessary provisions in the Estonian legal order and whether other national legislation does not already regulate it. If the dimension is already regulated at national level, duplication of regulation would not make sense. The National Defence Committee recommended once again that ministries make a linguistic correction to the text of the draft law, while harmonising the terminology of the draft with that of Estonian law to ensure the legal clarity of the draft law. The Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on National Defence asked the representative of the initiator of the draft to take account of the proposals set out in the opinion of the Committee on National Defence. Then, by consensus, it was decided to send the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 23 November, to propose to the plenary that the first reading of the draft 113 be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, which is 7 December at 12 noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U377	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much for your presentation. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee was to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading of the bill is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 113 amendments on 7 December 2011 at 12 noon. The 16th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U378	We go to point 17, which is the first reading of Bill 119 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan. I'd like a presentation from Secretary of Defense Mart Laari.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U379	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have the honour to submit a draft decision to the Riigikogu concerning the use of the Estonian Defence Forces unit in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the international peace-building mission in Afghanistan. This draft extends the term of use of up to 170 members of the Defence Forces for the international peace-building mission in Afghanistan in the composition of the international security support forces led by NATO until 31 December 2012. Why it is important for us to participate in this mission, this has also been discussed in the Riigikogu during the last few weeks in discussion groups and consultations. I would like to thank the members of the Riigikogu and the National Defence Committee, who have organised these debates, although I must admit that the public interest in them has not been as lively as one might expect. It has been possible for all those who wish to ask and also for answers on various aspects of the Afghanistan mission. I will only repeat briefly that this mission is indeed important for Estonia, Afghanistan and NATO at large. For us, it is clear that only if you are willing to help others will you have the hope of helping yourself. Afghanistan to try to come out of its extremely difficult situation. NATO, however, because it is its largest field operation and, in the course of the same mission, NATO either gains or loses credibility. For us, Estonia, as a member of NATO, this credibility is extremely important. So this is important to us in all respects, and that is why the upper limit of our unit will be kept the same as it has been before. We will continue to contribute to the UK-led infantry company of Helmand Task Force, the national support element, the IED destruction team, the task force for the special operation and the staff officers. It is also planned to contribute temporarily, from April 2012 to the end of June 2012 with a surgical team, the first shift of which I was able to monitor myself in Afghanistan. The estimates for this team were all superlative, which was extremely nice to hear. I believe that this decision is neither new nor surprising, it is a continuation of our traditional policy and I hope that the Riigikogu will decide to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U380	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U381	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Of course, I regret that when we had a joint meeting with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you did not have the opportunity to come there. I asked a question there that I didn't get a good answer from the Department of Defense. The question was not an attack, but an attempt to understand. How much is one of our soldiers in Afghanistan? I asked the Department of Defense to make an estimate compared to a British soldier, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U382	Thank you. I'm really sorry that I couldn't attend this meeting myself. It was at the beginning of this meeting that the plane that brought me back from the United States landed, and I arrived before the Riigikogu commission as soon as I looked like I could come before the Riigikogu commission. For God's sake, there's no need to see any maliciousness in it. The question is serious, however, and I think that this information is absolutely necessary. I have to admit, finding this information, i.e. exactly how much it cost, wasn't that easy. It was particularly difficult, I must say, to calculate this expenditure for the United Kingdom. But now I really have the opportunity to answer the question. If we take all kinds of things together, taxes, holiday fees, armaments depreciation, strategic transport and everything else, as much as these costs can be calculated, this amount will amount to up to EUR 8000 per month in Estonia, i.e. approximately EUR 100000 per year per member of the Defence Forces. Looking at the costs of Great Britain, they are, for several reasons, much more difficult to take into account, as their national defence system has already been built on a different basis. However, if I take this part of the expenditure which does not include specific staff salary costs, i.e. in reality the amount is significantly higher than what I say now, then the British mission's expenditure per member of the Defence Forces is GBP 392000 per year. If you turn it up quickly, it will be considerably more than Estonia's. And if you add up the wage bill, that's going to increase quite significantly. If there is a desire to know, we have more or less those Great Britain wage expenditures, but there is such a complex system of bonuses that it is practically impossible to say exactly if you have not gone into it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U383	No further questions. Thank you very much, Secretary of Defense Mart Laar. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U384	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the draft under discussion, the deadline for the use of the Estonian Defence Forces in Afghanistan will be extended by the ISAF until 31 December 2012. The Afghanistan mission is NATO's most important military mission, which is covered by the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. To clarify the draft explanatory memorandum, I note that s. On 12 October 2010, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2011 extending the resolution until 13 October 2012. The draft was linked to the s. a On 10 November in the conference hall of the Riigikogu, a joint public session of the National Defence Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 'Developments in Afghanistan'. Foreign Minister Urmas Paet, Estonian Special Representative in Afghanistan Väino Reinart, Chancellor of the Ministry of Defence Mikk Marran, Commander of the Defence Forces General Ants Laaneots and other invited persons participated in this session. As part of the current plan, responsibility for Afghanistan's security will be transferred to the Afghan Government and the security forces by the end of 2014. This will be followed by a greater contribution to civil reconstruction work, in particular and above all. The joint public hearing stated that the transfer of responsibility in 2014 does not mean that NATO troops will be brought out in full immediately. There is a gradual reduction of forces and, depending on the Government of Afghanistan's wishes, it cannot be excluded that NATO will continue, for example, with a training mission or on Afghan territory, with reduced formations of NATO troops under UN Security Council Resolution or foreign agreements. These decisions are still in the process of development. For example, on 5 December this year, an international conference will be held in Bonn to look at the future developments in Afghanistan. Next May, the NATO summit will take place in Chicago, where more concrete messages on the action plans will certainly be expected. The joint public session of 10 November this year was followed by a regular meeting of the National Defence Committee where the National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading. Mart Laar, Minister of Defence, and Riho Rõngelep, Head of the Department of Operations of Defence Preparedness of the Ministry of Defence, took part in this meeting of the National Defence Committee. The draft also concerns the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. 8 November Departure session at the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where the committees received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces in international mission areas. At its meeting on 10 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that this draft decision be included in the Riigikogu for the first reading. a on the agenda for the meeting on 17 November. The report is made by the Minister of Defence Mart Laar, who was appointed rapporteur for the National Defence Committee. At the meeting on 10 November, we also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of this draft decision be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set in s. 1 December at 6 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U385	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Mati Raidma. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 119. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 119 amendments on 1 December 2011 at 18:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U386	The next item is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta and NATO Marine Operation Active Endeavour'. I'd like a presentation from Secretary of Defense Mart Laari.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U387	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have before you a draft decision of the Riigikogu concerning the decision to extend the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the European Union Anti-piracy Operation Atalanta and NATO Marine Operation Active Endeavour until 31 December 2012. Both operations have been designated to ensure maritime safety and the fight against pirates in the region of Africa. Estonia has contributed to this operation since the end of 2010 with a ship protection team of ten, in cooperation with Germany and France. The draft provides for the use of up to 15 members of the Defence Forces, which will also allow staff officers to be deployed when the need arises. This is a very important mission for Estonia, because it is the most important operation led by the European Union to which we are contributing, and at political level, we were among the first to be aware of the need for anti-piracy action in the European Union at large. Our crews have done a very good job on this mission. I was able to welcome them personally in Estonia a few days ago, and it was really a pleasure to hear the representatives of both Germany and France once again give praise to our men at today's meeting with the ambassadors of the European Union. So this small mission in itself has actually brought Estonia great fame, created a very good reputation, and we can be really proud of the men who have represented Estonia in this operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U388	Thank you very much. There are no questions for the rapporteur. It's all clear. Thank you. I would like to ask Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Committee for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U389	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 10 November. As representatives of the author of the bill, the Minister of Defence Mart Laar and the Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence Riho Rõngulep took part in the session. On 8 November this year, a meeting of the National Defence Commission and the Foreign Affairs Committee took place at the Defence Forces General Staff, where we received an overview of the situation in the Atalanta mission area and the activities of the Estonian Defence Forces Unit. According to the draft decision, the Estonian ship defence team would continue to participate in both the European Union anti-piracy operation Atalanta and NATO Marine Operation Active Endeavour. The anti-piracy operation Atalanta is the most important military operation of the European Union and, as a Member State of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to implement the European Union's common security and defence policy. It is also helping to do this by participating in Operation Atalanta. The European Union extended its mandate for Operation Atalanta in autumn 2010 until 31 December 2012. Newly, the UN Security Council did the same. At its meeting on 10 November 2011, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft decision be included on the agenda of the 17 November session of the Riigikogu for the first reading. The draft presents the Minister of Defence Mart Laar as rapporteur, and I was appointed rapporteur for the National Defence Committee. At this very meeting of 10 November, the National Defence Committee also decided, by consensus, to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of this draft decision be stopped and ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 1 December at 18. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U390	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Marianne Mikko. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 122 amendments on 1 December 2011 at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U391	We will continue with the 19th item, which is the first reading of draft 117 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces." Mart Laari, Secretary of Defense of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U392	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have before you a draft decision on the possibility of using up to 45 armed forces, if necessary, in NATO's reaction forces from 1 January 2012 to 31 December in the same year. This year, Estonian Defence Forces will not participate in NATO's response forces, as this is the year of transition to the new model of response forces. From next year, however, the current half-year preparedness period in the response forces will become an annual mission. The force with which we contribute to these forces, and it is undoubtedly a very important force for Estonia, is the mine hunter Sakala in 2012. The Sakala team is made up of about 35 marines, but the ship's crew may be needed for training purposes. A mandate is therefore needed to involve up to 45 members of the Defence Forces. I believe that this mission is important to Estonia in many respects, as does NATO's response forces. It will certainly also make an important contribution to the training of our Navy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U393	No questions have been registered with the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Secretary of Defense Mart Laar. Lauri Laasi, Member of the National Defence Committee, will accompany the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U394	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 10 November. As representative of the initiator of the draft act, the Minister of Defence Mart Laar and the Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence Riho Rõngulep took part in the meeting of the Commission. In the Committee on National Defence, the topic was raised that in previous decisions of the Riigikogu, both in the title and in the text, the rotation number of the NRF was mentioned, e.g. in 2010 the number was 15. Until 2011, NRF operations were six months old, since 2012 rotations are longer and coincident with the calendar year. Consequently, NRF rotations are also referred to according to the calendar year number, e.g. next year's rotation is NRF 12. The specific rotation number has been excluded from the bill for the reason that there would be no confusion with the rotation numbers mentioned in the previous decisions of the Riigikogu. Since the last six-month rotation of the NRF was called NRF 15, the names would overlap until 2015. After 2015, the National Defence Commission will consider restoring the rotation numbers in the title of the draft. The Commission also asked whether the conscripts were involved in this mission. The Minister and other representatives of the Ministry replied that the conscripts were not participating in the mission. At its meeting on 10 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that this draft decision be included on the agenda of the 17 November session of the Riigikogu for the first reading. Mart Laar, Minister of Defence, was asked to act as rapporteur on behalf of the drafter, and I was appointed rapporteur for the National Defence Committee. The draft was also directly related to the meeting of the National Defence Commission and the Foreign Affairs Committee on 8 November at the Defence Forces General Staff, where the committees received an overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces and the events taking place in the mission areas. According to today's draft, the Estonian NRF will contribute in the form of the mine hunter Sakala. In this respect, mention of the name of the mine hunter is necessary because it was not included in the draft explanatory memorandum and was included in it on a proposal from the Commission. The size of the Sakala team is up to 45 members of the Defence Forces. A few words about this mission. Estonia's participation in NATO's response forces is due to NATO membership. All NATO countries, with the exception of Iceland, which does not have its own defence forces, contribute to the NRF, and this response force is also an important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, if necessary. The use of the NRF is decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the use of the NRF can only take place with the consent of Estonia. In view of the above, the National Defence Committee decided, by consensus at its meeting on 10 November, to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 18.00 a.m. on 1 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U395	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Lauri Laasi. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The commission proposed to conclude the first reading of draft 117. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 6 p.m. on 1 December 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U396	The next item is 20. To this end, the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Kosovo has been submitted by the Government of the Republic at the first reading of the draft 118. I'd like a presentation from Secretary of Defense Mart Laari.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U397	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have the honour to submit a draft decision to the Riigikogu concerning the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on a peace-building mission in Kosovo. The draft concerns the use of up to three armed forces, which could be used in the composition of the NATO-led Kosovo peace-building forces until 31 December 2012. The events in Kosovo and the need for a peace-building mission there are obviously well known to all of us. However, it can be said that this has been a truly successful mission. This is also demonstrated by the fact that, in the most difficult times, Estonia participated in this mission with 122 members of the Defence Forces, there are now two men in Kosovo and, if necessary, this number may be increased to three if the Riigikogu decides to do so. NATO's clear decision is to leave this mission in Kosovo together. And although the situation in the mission area is currently difficult and more men have been sent from the peace-building force reserve, there is no doubt that this is a positive example of how such missions can be carried out and the results. This has allowed us to significantly reduce our participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U398	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Secretary of Defense Mart Laar. I would like a co-report from Tõnu July, Member of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U399	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, what is left of us? Pursuant to this draft Decision, Estonia will continue to contribute to the NATO-led international mission KFOR in Kosovo, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244. According to the draft, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from its NATO membership. Currently, one of the senior officers of the Estonian Defence Forces is serving at KFOR headquarters in Priština. In addition to the Defence Forces, Estonia contributes to the civilian mission EULEX in Kosovo. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 7 November, where Riho Rõngulep, Head of the Department of Defence and Operations, was represented as the initiator of the draft. At the session, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft decision be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading by 23 November 2011. Mr Mart Laar, Minister for Defence, was asked to act as rapporteur and the rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. At the same session, it was unanimously decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft decision 118. The deadline for submitting amendments should be 10 working days, i.e. 7 December at 6 p.m., in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U400	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I don't see any requests. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 118 amendments on 7 December 2011 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 20th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U401	Let's move on to the next item on item 21. To this end, the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian state in Iraq has been submitted by the Government of the Republic at the first reading of Bill 120. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence Mart Laari to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U402	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I will submit a draft decision to the Riigikogu to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in Iraq. More specifically, it is the use of up to three Defence Forces in NATO training missions in Iraq until 31 December 2012. This training mission was set up on a proposal and at the request of the Iraqi Government. Since the creation of the mission, Estonia has participated with one to three staff officers, and we have also donated weapons, ammunition and computer class interiors to Iraq. This is an important operation for us, which is one of NATO's priorities. Currently, two Estonian Defence Forces members of this training mission are employed by one staff officer and one training instructor. I hope that the Riigikogu will give this mandate and we can continue this important task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U403	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee, please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U404	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 7 November. Riho Rõngelep, Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence, took part in the National Defence Committee meeting as the initiator of the draft. Today's draft also involved the meeting of the National Defence Commission and the Foreign Affairs Committee on 8 November at the Defence Forces General Staff, where the committees received a thorough overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces of what is happening in the international missions areas of the Estonian Defence Forces. At its meeting on 7 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that this draft decision be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading by Wednesday 23 November 2011. Ms Mart Laar, Minister for Defence, was asked to act as rapporteur for the draft act, and a speaker was appointed to act as rapporteur for the National Defence Committee. The NTM-I NATO Training Mission aims only at advising and monitoring the Iraqi security forces' training authorities, and therefore does not participate in security operations. According to the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion, Estonia fulfils its allied duties arising from NATO membership. At the meeting on 7 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft decision of the Riigikogu to the first reading of 120 as amended with the consent of the initiator. The text of the amended form of the bill is available in the hall and the amendment is underlined in the text. According to the amendment, the draft makes the use of the Estonian Defence Forces in Iraq conditional on the extension of the mission only if an agreement on the status of forces between the Republic of Iraq and NATO is concluded, namely the Status of Forces Agreement or SOFA. The agreement on the status of troops provides special rights, the most important of which is that Estonia's jurisdiction extends to the defence forces. This issue was raised by Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Committee, which led to the presentation of the draft as amended at first reading. The Government of the Republic supports this amendment as a draft author. The need for change stems from past political experience on this issue. The National Defence Committee also states in the draft explanatory memorandum that paragraph 4 of the first page and notes that the draft states that the term of use of the Defence Forces units will not be extended, but that up to three members of the Defence Forces will be used. On the basis of their posts, these members of the Defence Forces do not form a permanent sub-unit as they serve in different positions as either a staff officer or a training instructor. At its meeting on 7 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading of the draft decision and to set ten working days, i.e. 7 December at 18:00, in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U405	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for the submission of 120 amendments on 7 December 2011 at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and item 21 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U406	We will move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' presented by the Government of the Republic. Mart Laari, Minister of Defence of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U407	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Before you is the draft decision of the Riigikogu concerning the extension of the deadline for the use of the Estonian Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. We have finished reading here today the first reading of a number of drafts on international commitments, be they those of the European Union or NATO. We now have before us the extension of our participation in the UN peace-building mission. This is a long-standing United Nations-led peacekeeping mission, which began already in 1948. In today's world, and especially in this region, this is a very important mission. Estonia, as a member of the UN, certainly has not only rights but also responsibilities, and the latter include participation in UN peace missions. This mission is one of them, and I very much hope that the Riigikogu will support it by deciding to extend the deadline for the mission for us until 31 December 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U408	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Ülo Tulik, member of the National Defence Committee, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U409	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft 121 before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 7 November. Riho Rõngulep, Head of the Department of Defence and Operations of the Ministry of Defence, took part in the meeting of the Commission as a representative of the drafter. The draft was also directly related to the meeting of the National Defence Commission and the Foreign Affairs Committee on 8 November at the Defence Forces General Staff, where we received a comprehensive overview from the representatives of the Defence Forces, which takes place in the areas of international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces, including the mission area related to the draft under discussion. The question raised in the Committee on National Defence was that the title of the draft states several countries as a mission area: Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. To clarify the draft explanatory memorandum, the National Defence Committee notes that since 1997 military observers who were seconded by Estonia to the United Nations Military Observation Mission have served mainly on the territory of Israel and Syria. According to the draft, our UN observers could also be in Lebanon and Egypt if necessary. As the Minister of Defence made a thorough presentation, there is no point in repeating the substance of the draft. I stress the fact that this military observation mission is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948. In addition to the draft explanatory memorandum, I would like to add that the UN military observation mission is also covered by UN Security Council Resolution 72 of August 1949. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. This is a purely UN observation mission for blue helmets. At its meeting on 7 November, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft decision be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading by Wednesday 23 November. Mr Mart Laar, Minister of Defence, was asked to act as rapporteur for the draft, and I was appointed rapporteur for the National Defence Committee. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop the first reading of the draft and set ten working days, i.e. the deadline for submitting amendments in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. December 7th at 6 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U410	Thank you, dear waitress. You have at least one question. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U411	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In recent days, events in Syria have changed quite a bit, and domestic tensions have become explosive. As a member of your National Defence Committee, are you of the opinion that the Commission could look a little deeper into this issue, because there might be another deep conflict in the region?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U412	Thank you. I do not think that the Committee on National Defence should therefore discuss the matter again. I guess the situation there has been explosive all along. And as always with danger, it has its ups and downs. I do not believe that the National Defence Committee should meet again for this reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-23_U413	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline of 7 December 2011 at 6 p.m. for the submission of the 121 draft amendments. The first reading is closed and item 22 has been dealt with. Good colleagues, there are no more items on the agenda today. The sitting is adjourned. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 19.16 p.m.
