ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U1	Good fellows! Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 10th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U2	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to address Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The inquiry concerns the "Every child's kindergarten place' programme. The programme of action of the Government of the Republic for the years 2011 to 2015 states that the goal of the family and population policy of the government association is to create a family-friendly country from Estonia, where people are happy to have children and raise children. While parental benefit accounts for the majority of family benefits, studies show that future parents are most motivated by the future after the end of parental benefit. The problem is also too much of a gap between short- and long-term family benefits. According to the Pre-school Children's Institution Act, the local government has a duty to ensure that all children can go to kindergarten. At the same time, we know that the country has cut the funding for this programme in times of crisis. In this regard, we have five questions for the Prime Minister, on which we hope to have constructive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U3	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing. Let's go to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. There is also a message from dwarves from Võrumaa who ask all members of the Riigikogu to visit the vestibule of the Riigikogu building during this week, where you can read poems to the dwarves, perform dance moves or sing songs. Now, good colleagues, let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U4	Let us move on to today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other Acts initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Due to the constitution, the adoption of the draft 123 acts requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Before the final vote, we will do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. I will put draft 123 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 85 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft 123 Act amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other Acts initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U5	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Act and the Rescue Services Act, and, as a result of the reorganisation of institutions, the amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Kalle Laaneti, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, One good colleague, who has been in politics for a long time, has told me that the key to politics is that, first of all, it still has to run into a pile and then there will be a good politician who will solve this problem and make the right decisions. My opinion is a little different. If the politician knows it's going to be a ditch, I think he should get involved right away and do everything he can to make sure it doesn't go to the ditch. It's the same with this bill. Think very deeply before you choose which button to press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U7	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Andres Anvelt, representative of the Social Democratic Party, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U8	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to use one of our humorous fathers, Eino Baskin, said years ago, that I don't like to repeat myself, but I've talked about it repeatedly and not once. That's right, today we're rushing again. It was only this morning that we heard on the radio and last night on TV that only now, those days, the Rescue Board was ready to analyse which commandos might be shut down and which were not. At the same time, I repeat, they have long since known exactly for several months that there must be an additional deputy director-in-chief of the Rescue Board. Let us recall the reforms that have been made in haste, for example, in the police. In 2004, there was a trend towards the substantive liquidation of the Central Criminal Police, which was no longer there since 2009, as it was considered that the country did not need a national specialised structure to investigate crime. Now we see it still needs to be done. At the time, the reform was carried out in a hurry. Today we are in a hurry to reform again. We think that the local precinct does not have to be independent, we take responsibility up, we dampen responsibility in the structure of the increasing Police and Border Guard Board every day, i.e. we are dealing with porridge and cabbages. As my colleague Kalle Laane said earlier, think before you press the button. I am more than sure that, in a year or a half, we will be changing the law on police and border guards and the law on rescue services again, because we have realised that the previous reform was completed in a hurry. Thank you, and good thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U9	Thank you. There's no more calls. I shall close the negotiations and begin the preparation of the final vote. Good fellows! Due to the Constitution, the adoption of the draft 116 as a law requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Before the final vote, we will do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. I will put draft 116 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 52 members of the Riigikogu, 36 against, no abstentions. Draft 116 of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, amendment of the Rescue and Rescue Services Act and amendment of other laws due to reorganisation of institutions has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U10	We will move to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Auditor's appointment to monitor the activities of the National Audit Office in 2011. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are dealing with the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Auditor appointment for verification of the activities of the National Audit Office in 2011.' It is a matter of reading the bill. Pursuant to § 5 of the Act of the National Audit Office, the Committee on Monetary Affairs initiated the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Auditor's appointment for the verification of the activities of the National Audit Office in 2011. The Finance Committee proposes to appoint an auditor of KPMG Baltics AS, Indrek Alliksaar, to supervise the economic activities of the National Audit Office in 2011. The Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 21 November and proposed a consensual proposal to put it on the agenda on 8 December and to put it to a final vote. So much more information that in 1995, 1996 and 1998-2004 the National Audit Office controlled the economic activities of AS PricewaterhouseCoopers, 2005-2008. In accordance with the decision of the Riigikogu, the auditor of KPMG Baltics AS Indrek Alliksaar also controlled the economic activities of AS Deloitte Audit Estonia and the National Audit Office in 2009 and 2010, the last two years. KPMG Baltics is a company belonging to KPMG, one of the largest audit and consultancy firms in the world. This company has been operating in Estonia since 1992. He has audited many Estonian companies and also carried out audits in the public sector. Finally, I repeat that the Commission has taken a consensual decision to place the draft on the agenda on 8 December and to put it to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U12	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. The position of the lead committee is that today, at first reading, a final vote of 135 is also required. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 135 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 68 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 135 of the decision of the Riigikogu "Auditor's appointment for the verification of the activities of the National Audit Office in 2011" submitted by the Monetary Committee has been adopted as a decision. The third item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U13	Let us move to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the debate on the 'Electrical Price' of the national issue of crucial importance. Good fellows! Before we go to the debate on this point, let me briefly present the procedure for this debate. According to § 153 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group, the Bureau appointed the following procedure for discussing this important state issue. The discussion will begin with a presentation by the Director-General of the Competition Authority, Märt Ots, which will last up to 20 minutes. The following questions and answers, which also last up to 20 minutes. Secondly, partner of Baltic Energy Partners OÜ Peeter Pikk, whose presentation lasts up to 20 minutes. The following questions and answers, which also last up to 20 minutes. Finally, Urve Palo, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group, will present his presentation for up to 20 minutes. Questions and answers following the presentation, which also last up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteurs within the framework of this item. After that, there will be negotiations. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. In accordance with our good practice, I propose that representatives of the political groups first appear in the round of negotiations. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Director General of the Competition Board, Märt Otsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U14	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour for me to present to you and present a presentation of the current state of the Estonian electricity market, as well as my understanding of what will happen when the electricity market opens up. On the first slide, I will show you what the objectives of the energy strategy are at all, because it is necessary to know what the state has to do with electricity supply. This is, of course, a rather complex task, because it is necessary to ensure security of supply, to obtain electricity at affordable prices and to ensure that the environment is minimally contaminated. You could say it's three unknown equations that are quite difficult to solve. When we talk about the European Union's policy, the European Union has taken a very strong direction that the electricity market is one of the markets that must be liberalised and opened. The European Union Directive specifies that the price of electricity production and sales must take place in the free market, i.e. there must be free competition. It is also the duty to apply price regulation to natural monopolies, or electricity networks. This means that as the consumer cannot choose the electricity network service provider and the electricity network service provider is in a monopoly position, it is also clear that there is no competition in this sector and that prices need to be regulated. At the same time, however, the Directive also allows for certain exceptions. In particular, subsidies for electricity produced from renewable energy sources are allowed, and so-called universal service is allowed for domestic consumers and small businesses. Speaking of history, the European Union started liberalisation of the electricity market almost 20 years ago, in the 1990s, but when we look at other developed regions of the world and other OECD countries, for example, the United States has not chosen such a political direction and has not gone down the path of liberalisation of the electricity market. In order to get an overview, we need to look at what the price of electricity is now made up of. In this table, I have shown the evolution of electricity prices on 1 January 2012. The electricity price consists of the following components: First of all, the price of electricity generation, which on 1 January is 2.9 euro cents per kilowatt-hour. It should be noted here that this price is currently regulated and that there is a closed market share for consumers. Namely, 30% of the Estonian electricity market is already open. Consumers in the open market are currently buying electricity at a somewhat higher price. The next component is the cost of selling electricity, which is not high, it is 0.2 euro cents per kilowatt hour. The network service is 3,4, excise 0,4 and subsidies, i.e., expressed in other words renewable energy subsidies of 1,0 euro cents per kilowatt-hour. In total, the current weighted average price is 7.9 euro cents per kilowatt-hour. It should be made clear here that this is a weighted average, i.e. the average price for different consumer groups. Of course, some household groups and some business groups may have slightly different amounts as well as components. If you look at the map, you can see where Estonia belongs. Estonia is part of the former Soviet Union with its electricity system. We are working in sync with other Baltic countries, as well as Russia, Belarus and Ukraine. This means that we do not have a synchronous link with Nordic countries or Central Europe. When we look at Estonia's location in Europe, we see that quite a lot of changes are taking place. Since 2014, Estonia has been economically, not technically, integrated with the Nordic market. This means that by 2014 Estlink 2 will be completed and the total capacity of the Finnish connection will be 1000 megawatts. This is an economic integration, not technical integration. This means that our electricity systems will not work in sync with Finland or other Nordic countries, but they will be direct current connections. But in economic terms, it doesn't really matter whether or not the electricity is moving along the DC cable. Let's look at Estonia's top consumption. Estonia's peak consumption has been 1500 megawatts over the years. As the capacity of the Finnish connection is 1000 megawatts in 2014, it can be stated with certainty that most of the load is covered by this connection. In addition, Estonia has very strong connections with the Baltic States and Russia. It can be said that the Baltic States are the best integrated region in the context of the European Union at all. This is entirely natural because our system is built as part of the system of the former Soviet Union and, unlike the systems of other European countries, it is built as a whole. It is also very important that in 2016 the Lithuanian-Swedish Community will be completed and it can be stated with certainty that Estonia, together with other Baltic countries, will become part of the Nordic electricity market. A very positive aspect is that if we look at the different electricity markets and exchanges operating in the world at all, we can say with certainty that the Nordic electricity market is one of the best functioning in the world. The Nordic electricity market is always set an example for other markets. If we come back to national regulation, it is important to look at what will be regulated nationally. Currently, the price of captive consumers is regulated, and this price should be coordinated with the Competition Authority, both in terms of production and sales. However, as of 1 January 2013 the price will develop under the conditions of the free market. I will explain later why the country does not have a good chance of influencing or regulating this price. What will be the state of electricity generation in 2013-2014 (this is the time when the market opens)? As I have already mentioned, in 2014 Estonia will be integrated with the Nordic market, the maritime cables Estlink 1 and Estlink 2 will work and it can be assumed that the exchange prices of Estonia and Finland will converge. It is very important that a new period of trade in CO2 quotas starts from 1 January 2013. This means that the European Union is increasingly moving towards reducing CO2 emissions, and those power generators who issue more CO2 will have to pay more for it. It is currently unknown how much free CO2 quota is allocated to Estonia. As far as I know, negotiations are under way. There may be a scenario of some allocation to Estonia, but there may also be a scenario of no allocation of free CO2 quota to Estonia, and the total CO2 quota needed for production must be bought at market price. Simple mathematics shows that producing one megawatt-hour of oil shale electricity produces one tonne of CO2. So if we base the average price of the CO2 quota, which has been EUR 20 per tonne, it will add about two cents per kilowatt-hour to the electricity price. I would like to add that oil shale is a fuel with extremely high CO2 emissions. For Estonia, it is undoubtedly a problem that we are predominantly using such fuel. What will the situation be like? Unfortunately, there is nowhere to cut cheap electricity in Estonia. We may look at alternatives (e.g. natural gas, peat, wood, other renewable energy sources), but if economic calculations are made, they show that we cannot produce at a lower price than the exchange price. To make a simple comparison, we now have a regulated price of 3.1 cents per kilowatt-hour, but for example, the exchange price in Finland in 2010 and 2011 has been between 5.1 and 5.7 cents per kilowatt-hour. When asked what the price of electricity generation could be in 2013, when the market was opened, this question is very difficult and perhaps even impossible to answer. I can't answer what the stock exchange index or the world oil market is at that point in the remote control. This depends very much on the situation of the global economy. However, the market price for electricity depends on both the prices of raw materials on the world market and the situation on the Nordic electricity market. Since it produces a large part of electricity from hydropower, it is very important what the water level is at some point in these hydropower plants. What else can be said about the Nordic stock exchange price? I describe it with the Finnish stock market price. The Nordic stock exchange price has been lower in history than the Central European price if we take the German stock exchange price as a comparison. What is the reason? The reason is that there is a relatively high share of nuclear energy and also of hydropower. However, if we look at the evolution of the stock market price and compare it with the evolution of oil prices on the world market, we can see a certain correlation. This means that electricity prices follow the prices of all other raw materials of a relatively similar nature. Then I'll talk about national regulation. It is possible to regulate the selling margin for electricity sold in the framework of the universal service. However, it must be said that its impact on the end-user price of electricity is very small. The universal service is a service provided by the Internal Electricity Market Directive of the European Union, which a network operator has to sell to its connected customers. I'm going to go to the next components. The network service, as I mentioned earlier, will continue to be subject to national regulation. This is set out in the European Union Directive. What does the network service consist of? The distribution network price also includes the core network price and all important investments are included in the core network price: connection to Finland (Estlink 1, Estlink 2), as well as high-voltage Tartu-Viljandi line, reserve power stations, etc. Both the distribution network of Eesti Energia and the now independent core network Elering invest quite a lot in electricity networks. Over the next three years, 215 million euros will be invested in the distribution network and 287 million euros will be invested in the core network, which is quite significant investments. With regard to the pricing of the distribution network, it is very positive that Eesti Energia's distribution system has a specific task of reducing electricity losses to 5.5% by 2017. It can be said that Estonia has been very successful in the field of energy saving. Another ten years ago, there was almost 20% loss of electricity in the distribution system, and if we reach a level of 5.5% by 2017, this is a good figure. Improving the quality of electricity supply is also foreseen, with the obligation to switch to remote reading by 2016. Remote reading means that the electricity consumer no longer has to report electricity exhibitions to the distribution company every month, but the electricity company receives them by means of remote reading. The remote reading system will also enable consumers to better manage their household and electricity consumption in the future. I want to say that the costs of the distribution network have been separated from the costs of the rest of the activities of Eesti Energia. The core network is separated from the Eesti Energia group. The profit included in the distribution network price is at a reasonable level of 7,8%. This isn't about big profits. A lot has been said in the press and it has often been asked whether other activities of Eesti Energia (risk projects, new oil shale blocks, oil shale oil production) affect the distribution price. My answer is that they are not directly affected because the costs and revenues of the distribution network are completely separate from the revenues and costs of other activities of Eesti Energia. Perhaps we can talk about the indirect impact through investment capacity, because if Eesti Energia Group invests very much in other areas, it may be a question of the investment capacity of the network company. The distribution network price has been stable over the last seven years. On average, the price of distribution services has risen by 2.7% per year, indicating that it is even below inflation. I dare confirm that price formation will continue to be stable in the future. To sum up, what will be the impact of the policy on the price of electricity, I dare say that there will be no impact on the price of production. As Estonia joins the Nordic electricity system and prices converge, investments in production in Estonia have no impact on the price of electricity. If Estonia really wanted to influence the price of electricity in the merged system, for example (I have given a marginal example here) a 3000 megawatt nuclear plant should be established, which is completely unrealistic in Estonia. If, for example, the construction of the 1500 megawatt power plant in Lithuania in the framework of the joint project of the Baltic States is currently too much for the three Baltic States, then it is clear that Estonia lacks the capacity to build such capacity. The price of the network service must be cost-based according to the directive and also according to Estonian law, there is no political impact on the price of the network service and, according to my understanding, the price will be stable in the future. The country is most likely to influence the price of electricity through policy through excise duty and subsidies. The share of subsidies in electricity prices is already quite high. From 1 January, the electricity consumer pays one euro cent per kilowatt-hour, which is close to 13% of the final price. There is no doubt that, if the price of a product is 13% of subsidies, it can be said that there is a certain distortion of the market. The fact is also that the share of subsidies has increased from year to year. If the electricity consumer pays 0.6 cents per kilowatt-hour for subsidies this year again, then next year, as I emphasised earlier, already one euro cent per kilowatt-hour. Last but not least, I'm talking about universal service. The current draft Electricity Market Act, which has also been approved by the Government, provides for an obligation for the network company to sell electricity to its customers according to the market price or stock exchange price of the previous calendar month, adding a reasonable margin. Undoubtedly, there may be a political debate on whether to regulate the margin to be added to the universal service, but my understanding is that its impact on the end-user price of electricity is very small and marginal. If we go this way, it is probably possible to influence the end-user price of electricity to 1%, not more. At the same time, there would also be regulation here and, as we know, any regulation is, to a certain extent, a market distortion. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U15	Thank you. Good waitress! You have questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U16	Thank you for your thorough presentation. I have one more question for you. In addition to oil shale, Eesti Energia burns wood in its oil shale plants. If Eesti Energia burns wood with 40% efficiency, then the efficiency of Tallinn Väo Power Plant is 100%. Thus, oil shale boilers lose about 60% of the energy that can be used to heat homes. Not only is this a huge waste of resources, the state will pay renewable energy support to Eesti Energia for co-incineration of wood 11.3 million euros a year. This is also reflected in people's electricity bills in the renewable energy charge line. Do you think it is right that the Estonian state pays Eesti Energia a renewable energy fee for using wood in this way in oil shale plants, and is the amount of the fee and the method of calculating it reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U17	Thank you. The Competition Authority carried out an in-depth analysis of renewable energy charges a year ago. The analysis was submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. The conclusion of the competition authority is that in order to meet the European Union's target of increasing the share of renewable energy, this is the right measure, but the subsidy is too high. The Competition Authority considers that the subsidy could be significantly reduced. As far as I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U18	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In 2009, the price of electricity to large industrial customers was EUR 43 per megawatt-hour. In 2010, when the market opened for large consumers, the price was EUR 67 per megawatt-hour. The increase was 55%. How do you predict this increase for private consumers? The Ministry of Economic Affairs is talking about 20%, soccer offers 45%. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U20	Thank you. It is very difficult to predict. If we look at how the price of electricity has developed over recent years and compare it with the current regulated price, we will see that there have been periods where the stock exchange price has been at the current price level and there have been periods where the stock exchange price has been significantly above the current price. I think that the stock market price in 2013 depends very much on the state of the world economy. If we look at the years after the economic crisis, 2008 and 2009, then the price of oil fell from 140 dollars a barrel at the time to 25£30 a barrel. It can be assumed that the same trend is followed by the price of electricity. So it is very difficult for me to predict what the market price will be like in a year's time. It may become both higher and lower than today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U21	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U22	Thank you very much. Dear Mart Ots! In the past two years, Eesti Energia has invested heavily in both Jordan and the United States. Only preliminary work costs around one billion Estonian kroons. Although Sandor Liive, Chairman of the Management Board of Eesti Energia, has said that foreign investments do not affect the price of electricity at home, there is an indirect impact. Do you confirm this and consider it right that Eesti Energia invests outside Estonia on account of domestic investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U23	Thank you. I can assure you that these investments will not have a direct impact, as from 2013 the consumer will be affected only by the price of the Eesti Energia distribution service. The price of production of Eesti Energia no longer affects the consumer, as the price of production develops in the market. Is it right that Eesti Energia invests abroad? It is still the company's strategy, the decision of the company's owner whether or not to take these risks. I can say with certainty that the impact of these investments on the price of the distribution service at home is rather marginal. So far, quite large sums of money have been invested in the distribution networks of Eesti Energia. I dare to assume that Eesti Energia will have similar amounts in the future in order to continue to invest in the distribution network. In summary, I would say yes, investments abroad may have some indirect effects, but I would not give priority to this indirect effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U24	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! The main reasons for low electricity prices have been, firstly, the use of a very cheap resource, or oil shale, for producing electricity, secondly, the fact that for decades no investments have been made in energy production and network services, and now the need for investment has become acute. But under open market conditions, the price will be on the stock market. Is there any point in making a great deal of effort to create cheap domestic production opportunities if the price is on the stock market and really cannot be sold cheaper on the home market? Or are these investments necessary, above all, to ensure energy security?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U26	Yes, these investments are primarily necessary to guarantee Estonia's energy security. As the long-term energy strategy also requires Estonia to have the capacity to cover domestic capacity, these investments are strategic rather than economic. This was quite rightly the question that these investments would not have an impact on the end-user price if the market was opened.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U27	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U28	Thank you. Good waitress! The consumer price of electricity in Estonia is currently 3.1 eurocents and in Finland 5.1-5.7 cents per kilowatt-hour. If we went to the open market tomorrow, it would be real that we should start paying the same price. It's very easy to figure out how much electricity is rising. You did not tell us what the price of the distribution network in Estonia is, how much it is different from the prices of the Nordic distribution network and how much it affects the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U29	Thank you. As regards the distribution network price, the average network service price, i.e. the distribution network price plus the transmission system price, is 3.4 cents per kilowatt-hour. I expect a stable change in the future, which means that the price of the network service will remain stable in the future. It will rise in line with inflation, or probably even slower than inflation. When comparing the price of the Estonian network service in other European Union Member States, it can be said that the price of the network service in Estonia is at an average level. Of course, compared to the price of network services, this should be done by groups of consumers, i.e. a comparison should be made between the household consumer and the large industrial consumer. Of course, the price of online services in Estonia is influenced to some extent by thin settlements. It is inevitable that the price of electricity grid services will be somewhat higher in those countries with low population density. Estonia is undoubtedly one of these countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U30	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U31	Thank you. Good waitress! In Estonia's European Union policy until 2015, climate and energy policy has been identified as one of the objectives of increasing energy security by establishing energy interconnections and creating a level playing field for European Union producers compared to third country producers. The establishment and implementation of electricity import rules in the Baltic States are planned as an activity. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U32	Thank you. I can comment on it so that, as far as I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is dealing with this issue. The Estonian state has taken the formal view that electricity producers from the European Union and third countries (Russia) should be treated equally. But this issue is a dimension at European Union level. Since we have very strong connections with neighbouring countries, Estonia would have no effect if Estonia were to restrict imports from Russia. In order to achieve any effect, a Europe-wide agreement, i.e. an EU-wide agreement, should be reached. This dimension is still at the level of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U33	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U34	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that before, the grid losses were close to 20%, moving in a 5.5% direction. What has caused major network losses, and what measures are planned to reduce network losses?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U35	Thank you. The major network losses so far have been due in particular to electricity thefts and inaccurate measurements. This means that technical loss has also been reduced, but when we go back to ten years ago, the problem was, as I said, incorrect measurement, electrical theft and other 'commercial losses'. It is the switch to remote reading that gives the biggest effect, since remote reading gives the network company a very accurate view of how much electricity is consumed by one or the other consumer. When a hundred percent switch to remote reading, it can be said that electrical theft and even inaccurate measurements become almost zero. This is a huge potential for savings. We are already at a very good level, with 7.5% loss of electricity in the distribution network. The last two percent come from the transition to remote reading and measurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U36	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U37	Thank you. You said that it is politically possible to influence electricity prices only through excise duty and subsidies. The subsidies now account for 12.7% of the price of electricity. What is the possibility of significantly reducing or eliminating subsidies at all in order to lower electricity prices? Secondly, is it possible to reduce the price of electricity by investing in the construction of the network through public investment, or subsidies?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U38	Thank you. To answer the first question, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is currently dealing with the issue of subsidies. As far as I know, the option proposed is that subsidies will be made dependent on the market price of electricity. As we know, subsidies are currently being paid regardless of whether the market price for electricity is high or low and since there has been a relatively high market price for electricity in recent years, it is clear that producers have been overpaid. A year ago, the Competition Authority carried out an analysis, we analysed the subsidies paid to the various producers. We also submitted our proposal to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Our proposal was to critically review the system of subsidies and reduce them to a level that would guarantee companies a reasonable return on capital. On the basis of our calculations, several beneficiaries of the subsidy had too high a return on capital, i.e. too high a profitability. The second question was whether the State should invest in the distribution and transmission networks. This should first be subject to authorisation by the European Union because it is a direct public investment in a particular area of activity. If this were to be granted authorisation and if it were to be authorised to pay off public investment in the distribution and transmission networks, this would undoubtedly alleviate to a certain extent the increase in electricity prices. One positive example is that in the case of Estlink 2, a Finnish maritime cable financed by the Estonian and Finnish core networks, the European Union pays a hundred million euros in support. Of course, these EUR 100 million are not reflected in the consumer's electricity bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U39	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U40	Thank you. I also ask about the state's investment in electricity generation. You said you could invest in a distribution network. But the state plans to increase its share capital with the aim of investing in the construction of new oil shale plants. Do you consider this to be in line with the principles that exist in Europe, whether it is State aid, should this be subject to authorisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U41	Thank you. In my opinion, when the State makes investments through an increase in equity, it is still ordinary business, the logic of the ordinary company, because companies are also allowed to make investments through an increase in equity. Undoubtedly, State aid would be granted for direct subsidies, direct payments. The Electricity Market Act also includes a clause under which the State would be able to pay direct subsidies for investments in Narva Power Plants. The European Commission was initially also asked for State aid. As far as I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has withdrawn this request. Such a scheme would undoubtedly constitute direct State aid which requires the consent of the European Commission. Of course, the European Commission does not take a good look at such direct subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U42	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U43	Thank you. Good waitress! Estonia has undoubtedly made relatively risky investments in Jordan, America, Morocco and so on. It is also known that these are very high-risk transactions. When Minister Parts answered our question on Monday, he stated that these investments may prove extremely useful, but there is also a second scenario. We know that oil shale is Estonia's strategic mineral resource, oil shale is our national wealth. Some time ago, Eesti Põlevkivi was a separate company. Do you think it would be wise to separate Eesti Energia and Eesti Põlevkivi in order to diversify risks, on the one hand, to protect our national resource and, on the other hand, to ensure free competition on the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U44	Thank you. I think this is a very sensible proposal. If we look at the national treasures of Estonia, then oil shale is undoubtedly one of them. If you look at the world's oil reserves at all, oil shale and tar sands have even larger oil reserves than so-called ordinary oil. On this basis, Estonia can undoubtedly be considered an oil state. If the state really took such a step to better control its so-called oil resources and this resource was more fairly shared between all market players, I believe that this would be a positive step.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U45	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U46	Your report said that the share of renewable energy charges in electricity bills has increased from year to year. Do you think that the Estonian state could consider ways of supporting renewable energy projects other than through people's electricity bills, by robbing money out of the taxpayer's pocket? Could the state not use the funds of the European Union's Structural Funds or the trade in emissions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U47	Thank you. I think it would undoubtedly be a more sensible solution to use the money from the European Union's structural funds. If the current direct subsidies were replaced by investment grants, for example, and if indeed a large part of the investment subsidies could be paid out of the European Union's structural funds, this would certainly be a very positive step. This would also help reduce consumers' electricity bills.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U48	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for your clear and concrete presentation. But since the issue is the price of electricity, and with many questions, it may have seemed that we would pay more and more in the future for something that does not exactly understand whether we are paying too much and what we are receiving in the first place, is it not appropriate to repeat why Estonia wants to enter the open market, join the electricity trading system and so on? What are the values we receive at this price?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U50	Thank you. Firstly, it is a general energy policy of the European Union, which Estonia must comply with because Estonia has joined the European Union and has taken on the corresponding commitments. This is the side of the European Union. But I want to say that although many things tend to be justified by the demands of the European Union, this is not the case with the opening up of the electricity market. I am convinced that Estonia has better conditions in the open electricity market than if it were to continue with a closed electricity market. The reason is that our only resource is oil shale, which generates a lot of CO2, and we have old power plants that need investment. In the longer term, joining the free market will undoubtedly be more beneficial for Estonia than remaining an isolated energy island.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U51	Honourable March Ots! Thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Baltic Energy Partners OÜ partner Peeter Pikk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U52	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! I, too, want to tell you about the price of electricity in the context of an open market. I myself have been in this field for the last ten years and four years taught it at a technical university. As Mr Ots has already said, the electricity bill consists of a number of components, of which the electricity price is a relatively modest part in the current context of the captive market and also in the open market. The question is, is electricity expensive? The media might make it look like electricity is expensive. But if we compare it to other energy carriers, maybe it doesn't seem that expensive. For example, if one megawatt hour of electricity consumed costs final consumers about EUR 100, then diesel fuel, which we cannot consume at home at exactly the moment we want, and which we use in a very limited way, will cost EUR 135. It was just a comparison. The second question is whether electricity takes a lot of time. This needs to be seen in two contexts: in the context of business and in the context of private consumers. If you look at the cost base of Estonian companies, electricity represents on average only 4% or less of it. The export-oriented industries mainly spend even less of this. For private consumers, electricity consumption also accounts for around 4% of their budget. This was clear from the household budget surveys of Statistics Estonia. Electricity cost most of the housing costs, 11 euros per month per household member. If a free market emerges, it may rise by EUR 1 to 2 per month per household member. This is probably not a very large or significant increase for most Estonian residents. However, there are exceptions, especially for electric heating. At the same time, if we look at the price of electricity on the free market, we may be surprised to note that according to Eurostat, Estonian eligible customers, large industrial companies, currently as much or at times more are paying for electricity than consumers with the same consumption in Finland. What could be the reason for this, in a situation where the wholesale price is 5 to 15 euros lower? Consequently, our price must be high on other components: excise duty, subsidies and network charges. The question is how the State can manage these costs because the market price cannot be managed by the State. Looking at core network charges, our core network charges have been among the fastest growing in Europe over the last five years. We're not on a high level, but we've been growing fast. These prices do not yet reflect the very important investments: Estlink 1, Estlink 2, the emergency reserve and also the purchase of losses on the free market, which will take place from 2013. The assets of the core network are currently around EUR 350 million. A further EUR 500 million will be invested in the core network over four years. This will ultimately affect the price for all of us. The cost of losses will also increase the cost of the core network by around 10% from 2013. We will eventually have to pay for all this as consumers. How will the price of electricity in the market develop? Since April last year, the free market price in Estonia will be the same as in Nordic countries on the basis of sales and sales offers in Nord Pool. There are a lot of tenderers on the market, about 500 bidders on the sales side every hour and 250 buyers. The market is transparent and no one has very high levels of manipulation. Such a mechanism will ensure that power plants with minimal costs are produced and consumed by consumers who are able to benefit so much from this electricity that it exceeds costs. In this way, we will maximise the value of the electricity sector for society, which is reasonable. If you look at how the market prices have developed, the top price shown in this figure is the average spot price for this year and below is the vision of the future, i.e. the price for next year. If we look at these prices, we can see that the Baltic countries are clearly different in one factor from the other countries. In other countries (Finland, Sweden, Russia and Germany too) it is believed that if the economic situation deteriorates, electricity prices will also decrease, but in Estonia and Lithuania the price will increase more than the current spot price. What is the cause of this? Obviously because the opening of our electricity market is not yet fully completed, we do not have a financial market in which consumers and producers can manage long-term price risks, and this is also due to market fragmentation. Estonia's energy policy is probably one of the biggest bypasses (this stone cannot only be thrown into the Estonian cabbage garden) because there has not been a single Baltic electricity market. There is the Estonian market, there is the Latvian market, there is the Lithuanian market, despite the fact that the connections would enable us to work perfectly together. The price of electricity would probably be more transparent and stable if it were to be delivered together. The current situation is that Estlink's 350-megawatt sea cable alone has effectively combined our wholesale prices with electricity prices in Finland. In the summer, when the price of electricity in Finland is not very high, nearly 75% of the time we have the same price of electricity as in Finland. Only if prices in Finland go very high due to the cold winter will the price in Estonia remain at the same level as prices in the Baltic States, but prices in Finland will rise. It is probably foolish to expect Estonia to have any influence on the prices of the Finnish electricity market. The Estonian electricity market is about ten times smaller than the Finnish electricity market. Helsinki consumes about half of the electricity that Estonia consumes in total. So in 2014, no matter what we do, we will have the same electricity price as in Finland, we will invest wherever we want, or we will invest nothing. What does the price of electricity depend on in the North? This depends on which power plants have to work to cover demand. According to the production structure, these are coal plants similar to our oil shale plants. On the bottom graph, the blue line represents the variable costs of the coal plant and the red line represents the expected electricity price on the financial market for next year. These lines are relatively close together. If, at the beginning of this year, it was expected that next year the price of electricity would be close to 50 euros in Northern Estonia, then now, as the economy cools and as a result of the significant fall in the price of CO2, we have reached the point that electricity is traded at 40 euros, although the price of electricity is much higher in Estonia, 4 to 5 euros higher. In 2014, we can say this with relative certainty, the price of electricity depends on world market prices, fuel prices and CO2. Our eastern neighbour, however, has significantly lower electricity costs. That's for two reasons. Firstly, CO2 emissions are not taxed there and secondly, fuel prices are much lower than in Europe. However, Russia is also increasingly trying to increase the price of gas for its producers and it is planned that in 2014 the price of gas will be the same as the export price for Russian electricity producers. But we'll see. Electricity is also an extremely political issue in Russia. What is Estonia's main problem with importing from Russia? It's that there's a monopoly. Although it is technically possible for different producers to export electricity from Russia, the legal, practical monopoly currently exists on Inter RAO, which is active in Latvia and Lithuania, covering about one third of the electricity demand in these countries. This is not just an Estonian issue. The common problem facing all Baltic countries is how to tax cross-border electricity supplies from Russia. We have not been able to do so and that is why it is difficult to believe that there is a desire to invest in electricity production in the Baltic States. If this limitation were imposed and the CO2 emissions taxed, the State would be able to generate revenues that could compensate for either network charges or renewable energy charges. This is one thing that the country can and must deal with. If we look at the price increase ahead, we can say that there are three stages to the price increase. Firstly, the transition from a regulated market to an open market, which will take place in 2013. The next price increase will take place together with the convergence of prices between Estonia and Finland after the completion of Estlink 2 sea cable, although there is already doubt as to whether this would be more price increase. The third, most important price increase, is that no industry will be able to work below full costs in the long term and will need to invest in new production capacities. Whether this price is EUR 65 or something else, much depends on the price of fuel and CO2. But sooner or later we will have to pay the full cost of the industry as consumers. We can't just sneak away from it. This money must come from somewhere if we want our energy system to be modern and functional. New connections between Estonia and Finland, as well as between Lithuania and Sweden, should create the assumption that if a common electricity market emerges, there will be a single price around the Baltic Sea. But what are the prerequisites for Estonian consumers, especially industrial companies, but also domestic consumers to compete in such a market? At the beginning, I said that our subsidies would increase and that the cost of the core network would also increase. We may find ourselves in a situation where electricity produced in Estonia is cheaper to consume either in Latvia or in Finland. What is changing is that cheap electricity, which was once a competitive advantage for us, becomes more anti-competitive. Although this is not the most worrying thing either. If we look at how much the Estonian economy can add value to one of the megawatt-hours of electricity consumed, we regret to note that these figures have decreased year after year. Our excellence was in 2007-2008. For one megawatt-hour consumed, the Estonian economy, GDP, was able to produce added value for about 1800 euros, and we are currently at 1500 euros. With one megawatt-hour of consumption, we will be able to generate an added value of nearly EUR 300 less. This is much more than what is needed to enable the energy system to work in a sustainable way. Therefore, one of the pillars of a state's energy policy could be to help the country's economy to restructure and become much more energy efficient, to create much more added value through the same amount of energy. By saving electricity, we cannot create prosperity for our consumers, our voters, nor can we give our companies a competitive advantage. Different measures to make the economy more efficient would benefit everyone. Summary. We cannot influence the market price with our energy policy, because we are too small for the market in which we operate. We must focus on other things: establishing cross-border trade rules, network charges and taxes. Estonia is one of the few countries in Europe that tax everyone equally with excise duty. However, many countries support energy-intensive businesses in some ways. Estonia could also think about how to do this. An increase in electricity prices is inevitable. We cannot expect any industry to be able to operate below full costs in the long term. It is not reasonable to develop energy based solely on subsidies. We need to create a situation where the price on the market would motivate companies to invest in production capacity, or if this motivation does not arise, we must accept that we import electricity. The expansion of the market area and cooperation in the field of energy, especially in the context of the Baltic States, are critical. We cannot deliver optimal solutions on our own. I will give you an example of a core network emergency reserve station. Why do we need to invest ourselves in the emergency reserve if we could probably buy it from outside, for example from Latvia, Lithuania, Finland? We are a very rich country if we want to do all the things on the ground. Cooperation would allow these costs to be reduced. The best energy policy in the market context is to increase the overall energy efficiency of the economy. We can't suppress these costs forever. Someone has to pay for it. Even if we receive grants from European structural funds, investment will be paid for by someone else. However, we should be able to take care of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U53	Honourable waitress! Thank you! You have many questions. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You said that the increase in network charges in Estonia is one of the fastest in Europe. Who do you think should have an overview of the evolution of network charges in Estonia and who should direct and control this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U55	These competent bodies are the Competition Authority and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U56	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U57	Thank you. Good waitress! The European Commission has repeatedly expressed the idea that Estonian oil shale electricity has no perspective in the European Union, in particular due to the cost of CO2 emissions. Do you think that the Ministry of Eesti Energia and Economics and Communications has made sufficient efforts to ensure the security of Estonia's energy supply? How long do you think we will be able to watch how smoke comes out of oil shale boilers in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U58	Thank you. Is oil shale electricity production competitive or not? I think that in a few years' time, we will ask this question differently: are electricity producers competitive as buyers of oil shale? If the oil shale oil industry is developed in Estonia and restrictions on the volume of oil shale mining are also in place, then the oil shale oil industry will certainly be able to pay for the production of electricity, and for the production of electricity, the stone that is put into the furnace may not continue one day. Speaking of security of supply, it must be said that the task of Eesti Energia is not to guarantee security of supply; it is Elering's task. Eesti Energia is one of the producers operating on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U59	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You were talking about a monopoly in Russia, but looking at the Estonian electricity market, it can be seen that Eesti Energia does not really have a competitor either. For example, the Viru Chemistry Group produces electricity, sells it to Eesti Energia and then buys it back from him again. How can you comment on the situation of Eesti Energia as a monopoly in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U61	Thank you for your question. It is strange to criticise competitors and colleagues, and I see no reason to do so. If we look at the Estonian free market, the market share that is open, we can see that Eesti Energia competes closely with Latvenergo both in Estonia and outside Estonia, as well as with electricity coming from Finland. Our problem is that our market is small. If we could create a common market in the Baltic States, there would certainly be many new interested parties and competition would increase. The 1000-megawatt connection to the Finnish electricity market automatically makes Estonia a small player. The production capacity of Eesti Energia at this point is about less than 10% of the market volume, and there is no way we can talk about the monopoly anymore. Why is Eesti Energia and VKG buying and selling electricity? It is probably just useful for both parties, because VKG, being a free customer, is not obliged to sell electricity to Eesti Energia or buy it from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U62	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, All the decisions have, of course, already been made and we are moving towards an open energy market. But if you assume that these decisions have not yet been made, what would your assessment of the matter be? Was it possible to discuss it in the past and stick to the closed market? For how many years would we have the vitality to keep it? What would be more useful to the consumer, say, in tens of years? It's not a very specific question, it's more of a fantasy question, but maybe it's possible to go back in time and talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U64	Thank you for your question. I guess I'll try to fantasize. Estonia received a very long grace period when entering the European Union. Our electricity market will open in 2013, but electricity markets have long been open in the North and elsewhere in Europe. If we could have influenced our costs in any direction, it's hard to say. I don't think the price of artificially low energy is going to help society much further. This would enable us to make ineffective decisions. On the world market, energy prices have risen. I think that if we had built our economy on a very energy-intensive industry, we would be in a worse position than we are now. In my opinion, the electricity industry is not as important as the direction in which we structure our economy, how the state can help with its measures, so that one megawatt-hour of electricity can bring as much added value to businesses as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U65	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am not going to ask what the price of electricity would be if we had a Soviet Estonia. But I ask you that you correctly stated in your report that the increase in the energy intensity of the Estonian economy is a dangerous trend. I understand that the price is one thing that motivates the economy to spend less energy per unit of production. But what other opportunities do you see, how could the economy, or businesses, be affected to ensure that production is in line with other developed European trends, i.e. that energy intensity is reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U67	Thank you for your question. You can look at it both ways. If we look at the electricity used in Estonia, then more and more electricity is used in the private sector. In the past, about 20% of electricity was used in households, and currently around 25% is used. The state can certainly help private consumers to spend less. The most vulnerable group are definitely electric heaters, who installed electric heaters in their home about ten years ago. For example, in Denmark, which is a country with very advanced infrastructure, private consumption has decreased from year to year, not increased, as is the case in Estonia, but our consumption levels are also different. What can the state do? It can focus on less energy consuming industries, such as IT and services, but it cannot endlessly do so. These are economic policy decisions that I do not want to comment on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U68	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Experts certainly have a lot of information about the opening up of the electricity market, but there may not have been enough communication for the public. Who should correctly explain the issues related to the opening up of the electricity market? The general idea is that opening up means price increases, I think everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U70	That means price increases, that's for sure. Who should explain? I think that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Elering are very aware of their role in this area. I believe that the information campaign is on time. Thanks to the general service provision written in the law, not much will happen to the consumer either. The digital switch-over was probably worse than the opening up of the electricity market when some people actually lost their television image. I don't think anyone's power goes out of the room due to the opening of the electricity market. The price may change, but the power will not go out, and the information, I believe, will start next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U71	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U72	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We've talked a lot about the price of electricity here. We have calculated and tried to predict what electricity would actually cost in Estonia in the event of a free market and how much this price would increase for the final consumer. We have obtained the result that real price increases may exceed 40%, and the calculations by the Competition Authority show an even greater increase. The Minister for Economic Affairs continues to tell us that this price will not increase in any way by more than 20%. What is your assessment of how much electricity could actually rise as the market opens up for Estonian consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U73	I think speaking as a percentage is very subjective at all and maybe not the most accurate. When it comes to how much household costs change or how much money the family actually spends on electricity, no one knows what the percentages are. Every year at my first lecture in college, I ask the students how big their electricity bills are. Well, in a good case, one person knows how big his electric bill is. We don't know how much we're paying for electricity. We usually pay more for mobile phone services. Given that currently the price has been calculated at around EUR 30 per megawatt-hour and the price of electricity on the open market is EUR 45 per megawatt-hour, this price increase may be 40%, 50% or 60%, but it is only the price of electricity, it is one component, one third of everything. Similarly, as electricity prices rise, VAT will increase. Around EUR 6 million per year, residents pay more VAT on the price of electricity to the state. These figures aren't that big. When looking at household expenditure, the household spends 11 euros per person a month on electricity, 13 euros on transport and fuel and 6 euros on alcohol. To cover the increase in electricity prices, it is enough not to buy one beer or two beers (of course not everything buys). These are the orders of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U74	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U75	Thank you very much. Energy security is certainly an important issue. Yet someone has to pay for it. This new station will not be built by the Defence Forces, but by Eesti Energia and he will receive his money from the consumer. In terms of price, what would be the most effective way to achieve Estonia's energy security, whether to build oil shale plants here or to act in order to have more connections with other markets, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U76	Thank you. The task of Eesti Energia is not so much to ensure security of supply, but the task of Eesti Energia is to produce electricity and sell it to its customers. Security of supply is the responsibility of the core network, which can, if necessary, launch competitions for the construction of power plants or for the construction of interconnections. After Estlink 2 has been completed, Estonia is very well connected to other countries, and very many additional connections are probably no longer needed in Estonia. The very expensive project that is currently being considered is the decoupling and synchronisation of Russian networks with European networks. How much added value would this be for the Estonian economy? I don't know, no such calculations have been made. Rather, we need to critically review whether we need all of this. If we secure our house, we'll do it once. When we talk about the security of supply of the Estonian energy system, it seems that we want to secure once, twice, three times, four times, and the fifth time would not be bad. At some point, you just have to think about how much we actually have to do, how much the next investment will give us some additional certainty. Otherwise, at one point we're in an incredibly secure system where we're paying an enormous amount of electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U77	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U78	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for your presentation. I call for such a quick head count. We know that Eesti Energia intends to invest nearly one billion euros in new oil shale blocks at the order of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. Let us put aside environmental damage, which we have not yet assessed to a fair degree, and take it purely one billion, which in one way or the other is pure money, it is then obtained through CO2 quotas or in some other way. If this EUR 1 billion were to be invested in networks, how much could the price of electricity fall as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U79	Not a penny if you invest in networks. The network price has no impact on the price of electricity. Also Eesti Energia's investment in oil shale plant has no effect on the market price, although it may have some effect on the price through subsidies or other financing. But I think it would be dangerous if the consumer did not see the rates of these subsidies and the money was found in the budget. Then this picture of our daily consciousness would go away, and we wouldn't see our real electricity costs. I think it is important to know at any moment that decisions can be made on the basis of real costs. If we took this money out of the budget, it would still come from the taxpayer's pocket, not from anywhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U80	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U81	Thank you. Good waitress! You rightly stated that the Estonian market is so small that its ability to influence the price of energy in the region is essentially non-existent. That's why I have a question. If we look at the perspective of a few years, how will the opening of nuclear plants in Finland, for example, hopefully the new Visaginas nuclear plant or shale gas sites in Poland affect the price of energy in our region? Is there any hope that the price of energy could also decrease somewhat as a result of these investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U82	Would the cost of electricity be affected by the completion of nuclear plants? I think it would certainly lower this price at some point, but not significantly. As regards shale gas in Poland, they will not sell it on a cost base but on the basis of the world market price of energy. However, more than anything else, the price of electricity depends on the price of energy carriers on the world market and on the situation with regard to the balance between production and consumption, which power plants have to operate on the market, in order to cover consumption needs. The addition of one power plant will not have a significant impact on the Nordic electricity market, either today or in the future. The increase in electricity prices is likely to be inevitable in order to upgrade the energy system as a whole. The current electricity price is often not at the level of the new investment process. The electricity market has effectively slowed down investment, which is not bad in itself, because we may not need so many and so tight.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U83	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U84	Europe's vision for future generation of electricity is that more progress is being made towards the use of renewable sources. Co-production with chipping wood is one possible option. In that light, I have a question. Do you think that the payment of public subsidies to production using cutting wood, but with only 40% efficiency, will bring us closer, in the long term, to making sense to increase the share of renewable energy in our energy portfolio, or will its indirect effect be quite the opposite, because it will significantly increase the price of raw materials in the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U85	Is it reasonable to pay support to Narva stations or not? If there is a repair, it becomes clear that Narva stations are probably the cheapest place where Estonia can meet its commitment to produce 20% of all electricity or to use 20% of renewable energy sources using green energy in the European Union. The question is how much you have to pay for it. Narva stations and Eesti Energia would certainly be motivated to use chipping wood even if there was much less support. This support could be eight or five times smaller, but they would still be motivated. It's just a question of how much you have to pay. I do not believe that it would be much more effective for the Estonian state to do all this elsewhere. This is just the cheapest place where we can meet our renewable energy target. But you just don't have to pay that much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U86	Good waitress! Thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Urve Palo, Member of the Social Democratic Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U87	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Social Democrats met in August and September, one can say, thousands of Estonian people. At these meetings, it became clear that the price of electricity and the associated uncertainty, the fear of price increases, are one of the main areas of concern to the people. This is also why we raised the issue of electricity prices as a matter of national importance. After all, the price of electricity affects our daily lives. As electricity prices rise, the cart increases, the price of bread and milk rises in the store, not to mention the monthly increase in electricity bills. If we look at the major development plans of the energy sector of the Estonian state and what they say, we will see that the aim is to provide the Estonian population with a continuous, sustainable and affordable supply of electricity, to ensure Estonia's energy independence with oil shale energy and to reduce the environmental impact of oil shale mining and use. Reading the goals, all of this seems to ensure that Estonian residents have electricity at affordable prices and to ensure Estonia's energy independence with oil shale energy However, if we start to analyse this objective in substance, we will see that there is no way to fully achieve it. It means that the target set is already misguided in itself. Why? The reason is that, as has been said many times today, the electricity market will open in 2013 and the state will in no way be able to guarantee the supply of domestic electricity alone. The competitiveness of oil-fired electricity will be affected by the new regime for greenhouse gas emissions trading in the European Union as from 2013, which the previous rapporteurs spoke about. In particular, due to the new emission quotas, the head of the Competition Authority, Märt Ots, spoke about the increase in the price of electricity production from 2013 to two euro cents, which means that production will be around 60% more expensive than today. If we look at production prices on the market, they are currently on average 45% higher. This shows that oil shale electricity may not be competitive in the future. At the same time, Eesti Energia started the construction of a new oil shale plant in the spring of this year. The amounts are very large, EUR 640 million, and then another station is planned to be set up, amounting to EUR 1 billion. At the same time, there is a high risk that these stations will never work. So, unfortunately, we cannot even talk about the fact that we employ thousands of people in power plants. If the power plants don't work, they can't work. So in any case, the direction to invest in oil shale oil plants, where employment is also guaranteed, would be more secure. Although it was mentioned here that electricity generation and its price will not be paid by consumers, they do so indirectly. If we invest a billion euros in new oil shale plants that do not work, it is the investment of the Estonian state, it is the money of all of us, and we will pay for it in one way or another. Even if we had relocated this billion, other activities would have been profitable. When we talk about affordable electricity, the price of electricity in the open market is indeed rising. This would also increase without market opening, because the CO2 trading system will change and the price of oil shale electricity will increase anyway. According to a modest calculation, this means that people's electricity bills will increase by at least 16% from 2013 onwards. We can argue whether this is a large or small increase and whether we notice it or not, but the fact is that if the average Estonian family currently consumes 3500 kilowatt-hours of electricity per year and spends 382 euros on electricity, when the price of electricity increases by 16%, it means more than 60 euros per year, or an extra bill of 1000 kroons per year, for average consumption. Everyone decides for themselves whether it's a lot or a small amount. Electricity prices are also rising due to the need for additional investments in transmission and distribution networks. Networks are now being amortised faster than they are being invested in replacement. Estlink 2 will also come in 2014, and Elering has taken up 1.2 billion kroons of loans to build it. We're gonna have to pay for this, too. In any event, the price pressure on network charges will increase. So what are the possibilities for the state to influence electricity prices and electricity consumption? I'm offering solutions. Today there has been much talk about the fact that the final price of electricity consists of different components. If, for example, we take the home consumer package 1, we can see that the basic tariff is 30%, the network service is 44%, renewable energy charges, electricity excise duty and VAT are added. There has been a lot of talk about the fundamental influence that the state can have on electricity excise duties, renewable energy charges and taxes at all, and there is also an impact on the network service through the Competition Authority. In the case of a basic tariff, we really cannot influence the market price on the open market, but if we make unreasonable investment decisions, we will still pay for them. Now for the reduction of the electric excise duty. The Social Democrats have proposed to the Riigikogu and the government to lower the electricity excise duty. Currently, household excise duty on electricity is 4.5 times higher in Estonia than the European Union rules prescribe, and excise duty on business consumers is eight times higher. If we were to move these standards to the minimum limits that the European Union allows, electricity bills could be reduced by nearly 4%. It should be said that there are 27 Member States in the European Union, but only five of them use higher electricity excise tariffs than promised, including Estonia. The question arises as to why the other 22 countries do not do so. What else can we do? At present, consumers pay for the development of renewable energy through electricity bills. This is one possibility, and the Estonian state has gone that way. Yes, the sensible course is indeed to gradually increase the share of renewable energy in our energy balance, because we do not have to buy expensive CO2 quotas and this is also the most environmentally friendly solution. Is it reasonable, however, that it will be paid by consumers through electricity bills if there are other options? For example, no one is prohibiting a country from using emission quota trade funds (Estonia receives €2 billion per year, i.e. €250 million per year) or structural funds or flexible trading mechanisms under the Renewable Energy Directive in 2013-2020. This means that if we now trade CO2 quotas, then in the future, renewable energy certificates will be traded analogously. A country that has met its renewable energy targets may sell this quota or certificate to those countries that have not met those targets. Figuratively speaking, it is possible that, for example, if Britain does not meet its renewable energy target, it will buy this quota from us and we will continue to develop its renewable energy with this money. It would have a very large impact on our electricity bills, almost 6%. By the way, previous reports also mentioned that the state could take advantage of this possibility. It was also said today that it is network charges that will be the ones that the Competition Authority will be able to control and influence because it will no longer be able to influence production prices on the open market. That is why the Social Democrats think it would be reasonable if the Competition Authority were not subject to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, because the same ministry is subject to a number of subordinates whose activities should be controlled by the Competition Authority. This proposal is not directed at the employees of the Competition Authority in any way, but is a matter of principle; there should be no contradiction here. We have sent such a proposal to the Ministry of Justice. In our opinion, one possibility for the Competition Authority is that it could, for example, be in the administration of the Ministry of Justice or also be a separate independent entity, such as Eesti Pank. The role of the Competition Authority in assessing the pressure on the rise in the price of network charges is increasing as it is a very complex area and it is very important to assess correctly whether the price increase is simply due to the desire to make more profits or the wrong management decision, or whether the price desire is justified. However, it may also be that network development is not sufficiently invested and should put pressure on more investment. Where do I see the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U88	Seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U89	Thank you. Of course, it is very important that the Estonian state also focuses on reducing energy consumption. That's what the last waitress told me. Prices are rising, there is pressure to increase electricity prices in any case, and the state should use different options to help people consume less electricity. What can be done? One way is to involve energy producers in energy saving. This means that the main emphasis is on savings achieved in the end-user sector. In a simplified way, this means that, for example, Eesti Energia needs to change windows in its homes every year in order to achieve the agreed savings, to heat the facade, to replace the household equipment, to install LED lamps. Due to the possibility of saving, Eesti Energia should also have an interest in doing so, because it will then have to invest less in new production capacities. Since Estonia regained independence, it has not been properly appreciated how much energy we could save if we made our houses and production more energy-friendly. There are estimates that savings could be around 30%. This means that we should not worry so much about creating new production capacities, which are very expensive. Energy savings are actually more favourable. The Estonian state could create a legal framework for the emergence of the market for energy service companies. This means that companies take on the financing of projects and the implementation of austerity measures, benefiting from energy savings generated. Simply put, this means that the employees of the company will come to the home of the person and say that they will replace the windows, heat the facade, replace light sources and household appliances with more sustainable ones if, for example, the person will pay for the current amount of electricity and heat consumption for the company for the next eight years, but after eight years, people's bills will be reduced by half. Despite the fact that the Energy Services Directive requires the creation of the necessary environment for the operation of energy service companies, the Estonian state still has not complied with this requirement. Such companies work very successfully in Germany, Great Britain, Denmark and the USA, for example. In the energy sector, the Estonian state could initiate the Tiger Jump programme. In some ways, the head of the Competition Authority, Märt Ots, spoke about this. The fact is that today, energy losses are very high in distribution and production companies. The first part of the Tiger Jump programme would complete the implementation of information and communication technology innovations in core and distribution networks by 2015 and the second part would install smart meters in all households and businesses. Basically, the implementation of smart grids means that putting different information and communication technology solutions, such as censors, binary meters, web application software, etc., into a single system, starting from the manufacturer and ending with the consumer, allows both the manufacturer and the consumer to get a real-time overview of energy consumption. In addition to getting an overview, producers, system operators, sellers and consumers can respond flexibly to this information. All of this could actually be paid for by the private sector, because they are ultimately the ones who are saving, and therefore they should also bear this cost. Last but not least, as they say: we Social Democrats consider it very important that the state protects the deprived population in the electricity market. All residents of Estonia, regardless of their income and place of residence, must be guaranteed the possibility of consuming the amount of energy services necessary for normal living activities. The fact that the price increase resulting from the opening up of the electricity market affects less insured people in particular, but the state has not taken any steps to prepare for it, has also referred to the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice. Measures must be planned by the State to alleviate the situation of the population affected by the shortage. The most sensible of these is to channel the same energy-saving programmes, which I mentioned earlier, to the less insured, because otherwise, rising energy prices will put an even greater part of the population at risk of poverty, and the country will pay for the increase in energy prices through social assistance. Room and electricity, even under the Euro Directives, are services that must be available to everyone in the minimum agreed list, and it is the task of the state to find these levers to make it happen. Unfortunately, the government's actions have not brought us down the cost of energy, but have raised and will continue to increase. Examples are the increases in excise duties and the fact that we are using biomass inefficiently and increasing investment in inefficient production, which we are all finally paying off. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U90	Dear waitress, thank you. You have questions. Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U91	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Thank you for this excellent presentation. I am pleased that you have also been able to highlight the possibilities for reducing electricity prices in the future. In a little more than one year, we will have a free market and the price of electricity is expected to rise for people. Please tell us whether the government's current activities on excise duties and renewable energy charges have still been positive for the people of Estonia and what may be possible in the coming year to make the transition on 1 January 2013 a little more balanced for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U92	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, the State, knowing in fact that the prices from 2013 will rise, this is a fact, has not prepared its activities to ease the price increase, but has, in fact, put more fireplace trees in place to make the price increase even higher. We have very high excises. As I said, in 22 countries, minimum excise duties are still used to keep their population, which is the other reason. We pay renewable energy charges through our electricity bills, including those that are unreasonable. The previous rapporteurs said that even the fees paid to Eesti Energia for burning timber are too high, but we pay them off, although the state would have other ways to support the development of renewable energy. I think that the country should think very seriously about what it is doing since 2013 with people who are unsure about it. How can we help them? Both the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General have pointed out that it is unreasonable to hope that the current social assistance system will make up for it, because the assistance it receives is already limited. There must be other measures. European Union directives, for example, allow people who are less insured to sell a certain amount of energy at a lower rate. So there are a number of possibilities. It's up to the country to decide exactly what it's using, but it needs to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U93	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a number of specific questions. When Märt Ots performed, he showed a table showing the price of the network service 3.4 cents. Your chart says it was either 4.4 cents or 4.7 cents. But that's not what this is about. I can only ask you one question, and it's like this. Your speech said that the price of the new electricity unit would be EUR 1 billion. Your table was much more realistic in terms of EUR 640 million. Which number could be right, and why does it sound so different here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U95	Thank you. As far as network charges are concerned, Mr Ots spoke about the average price and he also stressed that this was the average for companies and households. I am talking about a very specific package, the home consumer package 1. If you add up the two numbers that were listed next to Märt Otsa, it's almost the same amount that I have for the network fee. I did this thing before because I had the same question. He's got more loose ends than I am, I've got numbers added up. But the basic electricity tariff still exceeds 3 Märt Otsal, I think 3.1. Package Home 1 consumers have this 3.2. The second question concerned investments in oil shale blocks. In my presentation, I spoke about the fact that the investment of EUR 640 million has already been decided, and the agreement has been signed this spring. But in my speech, I said more broadly that the plans are actually two-tier. The first block costs 640 million and the second one 360 million, so that there would be one billion euros in total. But whether or not the second block is being built will be decided next year according to current plans. If we want all of Estonia's security of supply to be based on oil shale electricity, we need to build two blocks that will require a total of one billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U96	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You spoke of a reduction in electricity excise duty as an effective option to reduce electricity prices. Only this proposal, as you have put it, would create a deficit of EUR 30 million in revenue in the state budget. I asked you the same question when you defended this bill: where to find the cover for this 30 million? Then you said that inventing the costs is your concern, and inventing the sources of cover is perhaps our concern, or a coalition. I'm a little embarrassed now. For example, if a car tax is applied in Estonia, it only covers half of this cost. Do you have any idea how to cover this $30 million cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U98	Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U99	Thank you, questioner! We are not currently dealing with the state budget for next year. We are talking about a fundamental issue, about the price formation of electricity and about the possibilities for the state to mitigate this price increase for consumers. One way that the state can do this (as demonstrated by previous rapporteurs) is to lower taxes, including excise duties. When we talk about price increases from 2013 onwards, the country has a long time to plan its activities if it wants to help its people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U100	Thank you. Good waitress! What is your opinion as to why the Estonian Competition Authority's approach to Tallinn's Vee and Eesti Energia price policy differs like night and day, although in both cases it is a monopoly company? We know which line goes around the prices of Tallinn Water, but if any price increase request comes from Eesti Energia, it will be sealed with two hands at the Competition Authority and the price will be increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U101	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U102	Thank you. This question must have been addressed to the Director General of the Competition Authority, Mr Ots. It is very difficult for me to comment on this and to give a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good Urve! Much has been said here today about the possibilities of reducing energy consumption. I might ask you a speculative question. There are different ways of saving electricity in a household, such as saving bulbs or whatever. I mean a normal austerity regime, not that you have to go to the bathroom with a candle. How many percent do you think the average household could save on its average electricity bill if it used the options that exist now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U104	Thank you. It's very hard to say average, because it's all about the household. What do you need to start with? For example, if the building is heated by electricity but the walls are not insulated, insulation of the walls, windproofing of the openings and changing windows can reduce the electrical bill by half. Once all this has been done, it depends on how many household appliances there are, how much stoves are used, etc. We're talking, I don't know exactly, 10 in 20 percent. It's hard for me to say. There should be a very specific starting point on which to calculate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U105	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U106	Thank you. Honourable waitress! To many of the problems you mentioned, solutions have actually sounded in this Chamber today. But I will continue with Aivar Sõerd's question. One of your ideas is to lower the electric excise, but you have not provided a source of protection, and that has not sounded in this Chamber today either. You also mentioned another country where excise duties are minimal. Can you tell us what kind of tax these countries have introduced instead of raising this excise duty? Would you like, for example, to introduce progressive income tax so that the electricity excise duty is lower?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U107	Thank you, good questioner! I was talking about excise duties, and I said that 22 of the 27 countries use minimum excise duties. If we look towards Europe, we will see that there are almost no countries with no graduated income tax. These are the new countries of the European Union, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. I wouldn't go into this discussion. In addition to lowering the excise duty, I would like to see the Estonian state also more active and effective in channelling European funds into the energy saving and renewable energy sector. When we are talking about structural instruments, for example, from 2014 the European Commission has foreseen that at least 6% of structural funds should go to develop renewable energy in the country. I would very much like to see the Estonian state do this rather than divert these funds to a third place. Secondly, we could be very active and good at developing renewable energy, because we have a pretty good starting position. We already have 17% renewable sources for all the energy produced. We shouldn't rest here. We need to keep going. As I mentioned earlier, in addition to trading CO2 quotas, renewable energy certificates will also be traded. Not all countries are able to develop renewable energy so well. We could be at the forefront here and continue to develop this sector with the money of other countries of the European Union, to be clever in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U108	Let's get on with the questions. Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U109	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that the money from the sale of a renewable energy certificate could be channelled into the construction of new renewable energy sources. What is the selling price of one megawatt of renewable energy certificate on the world market and how many megawatts could Estonia sell them per year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U110	I can answer this question in such a way that, when it comes to the amounts that the Estonian state can obtain, as I said earlier, the total amount of CO2 emission quotas in 2013 to 2020 is two billion euros, an annual volume of 250 million euros, making over three billion Estonian kroons in old money a year. In addition, the total amount of structural funds for this period is EUR 250 million. Exactly how much can be obtained from the sale of certificates, I cannot tell you at the moment, but these amounts are also significant. The European Union's course of action is the green economy, renewable energy and is one of the main areas in which investment is made. Even the Estonian Development Fund has mentioned in its presentations that the Estonian state could be a tiger in this area rather than a side passer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U111	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U112	Thank you. Good waitress! People's ambassador Stalnukhin has intimidated people in Ida-Virumaa that the Socats are trying to save nature and that is why they are opposed to oil shale energy. When our proposal starts to move towards more environmentally friendly energy, a large number of people in Ida-Virumaa will be unemployed, I don't remember exactly how many people, I think 3,000. Can you comment on that? I, like a national envoy elected from Ida-Viru County, am concerned about this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U113	Thank you for a good question. I have a chance to explain this a little bit. Don't scare people, I'd tell a colleague. Unfortunately, he's not in the hall right now. The question is quite the opposite. The Social Democrats are very concerned when the state of Estonia places all its so-called drums on oil shale energy and creates new production capacities in this area for a very large amount of money. We can see that oil shale electricity will not be competitive in the future in an open market. This has also been mentioned in previous reports today. This means that, while we invest terrible sums of Estonian taxpayers' money, whether this money has come from CO2 quotas or from the state budget, it is all our money, but these factories will stop and people will not have a job. We are very concerned and want people to have jobs. Oil shale energy as a sector is a very important employer in Ida-Viru County. We believe that the state should not play with fire and deceive people, but should clearly focus its activities on expanding oil shale oil production. It is also a labour-intensive sector, as well as a firm employer, because it is a growing sector. In addition to creating jobs, it is important that oil shale is so much deserved and that the Estonian state benefits more in every way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U114	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Both the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General have indicated that the price increase resulting from the opening up of the electricity market affects the most vulnerable. As far as you know, has the Estonian state done anything or is doing something to mitigate the increase in the price of electricity for the vulnerable?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U116	Thank you. No, it's not. Indeed, the Estonian state has not taken any steps to reduce the price increase. These steps have not been taken. On the contrary, steps have been taken to increase the price of electricity: increased excise duties, unreasonable decisions to use biomass, and also to increase the production capacity that we are all paying off. The Auditor General noted this in the end of last year. The Chancellor of Justice also said in his statement less than a month ago that the Estonian state had not thought about it, but should think about it. We have a year left, it's very little. I very much hope that the country will develop concrete measures to help people, particularly those with a low level of security, and to help all of us prepare for the least possible level of price increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U117	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U118	Thank you. I have one more serious question. In spring, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs attended a meeting in Eesti Energia. Raine Pajo, member of the Management Board of Eesti Energia, drew a beautiful schedule that if Eesti Energia had to pay for the CO2 quota and also received renewable energy support, they would probably make five euros per megawatt-hour of losses. I asked the Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts on Monday whether oil shale energy in Estonia was competitive already and especially in the future, in the conditions of the free market. He said he already has. The member of the board of Eesti Energia says it is not, the Minister of Economic Affairs says it is. I don't understand. Can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U119	Thank you. Yes, it really seems that there are very strong differences of opinion. Sandor Liive, Chairman of the Board of Eesti Energia, said that when we had an parliamentary hearing organised by the Economic Commission, 'The Burnstone as a resource', we could think for at least a year about whether to build new blocks. It is for the same reasons that you mentioned. Firstly, we do not know where the source of funding comes from, and secondly, we do not know whether it is competitive at all. I find it difficult to comment on the opinion of the Minister for Economic Affairs. He has been Minister for Economic Affairs for over four years and should be very familiar with this area; he has certainly been given different information on this subject. I don't know why he doesn't see any more modern alternatives to oil shale electricity. For example, the manager of Elering Taavi Veskimägi has said that if there are 1500 megawatt-hours of electricity in Estonia during peak load, there could be 900 megawatt-hours of wind energy in Estonia. In addition, it turned out from previous reports that if Estlink 2 becomes operational in 2014, it will also increase security of supply and no longer fear that there will be no electricity if there is no wind. Not to mention that we could also build a LNG gas station for our own use, which would be cheaper to build than a new oil shale boiler. It would not depend on Russian gas and would help us if there was no wind power. The possibilities, I would like to say at the end of the day, are very many, there are alternative modern options that the Estonian state could consider, but unfortunately we do not have a modern energy policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U120	Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation and your answers. Dear colleagues, the Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed to extend today's session, if necessary, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. To be sure, before the negotiations are opened, we will vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. For 49 members of the Riigikogu, against 3, with 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported. I'm opening negotiations now. Please ask Kalle Palling, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable waitresses! First of all, I would like to thank the Socialists for putting this issue on the agenda for a very meaningful debate. I believe, in particular, that the evolution of electricity prices and energy security must be dealt with together. Securing Estonia's energy security at the cheapest possible price for the Estonian consumer and the environment is a priority for the Reform Party. We see that energy saving and more efficient use are important means of achieving energy security at the cheapest possible price. Thus, consumers themselves, not politicians, can best influence the size of the electricity bill, even though it is intended to do so. Knowing how much you spend and where you spend creates prerequisites for savings. Consumers should start here, for example, by choosing the right electricity package. I consider it important for the state to help consumers who want to save and save energy. To this end, a number of resources have already been targeted at energy saving through the thermal insulation programme for apartment buildings and private houses. I call on all parties in Parliament to think about how the structural instruments of the next financial perspective will be channelled more into energy saving and distributed electricity production based on domestic raw materials. Of course, the country itself has a major role to play as an example here. It is also urgent to find ways of investing in transmission and distribution networks in such a way that every euro invested should not be asked by the consumer. The most logical way to do this would be to use structural instruments. Estonia must move forward with the development of intelligent electricity systems or smart grid. As a result, energy security and efficiency in the use of electricity would increase and environmental pollution would decrease. It is in this area of smart solutions that Europe is currently in the race for a 'train driver'. We have the opportunity to be in the front row with the best knowledge and experience in the field of energy saving. I would remind you that by 2021 all buildings will have to be nearly zero-energy users. I repeat more than one of my earlier thoughts that energy savings could be an Estonian export product. All of this, however, does not just mean adjusting a few cents on the electricity bill, but it is necessary to change the overall thinking model. The opening of the market is not a factor leading to electricity prices in the longer term. Electricity prices in Europe and Estonia are mainly raised by changing CO2 trading rules since 2013. The production of oil shale electricity must start to buy an emission quota, so far electricity producers will receive it free of charge. Depending on the cost of the quota, production of oil shale electricity could increase by 40 to 60%, and this would also happen if the electricity market were closed. For Estonia, however, it is sad that the change in emissions trading rules and the opening up of the market will end up on exactly the same day. Once again, I'd like to go over the components that make up our electric bill. First of all, the cost of electricity is 35% of the electricity bill. Thus, only 35% will be affected by market opening. Network charges account for 37% of the electricity bill, including 65% of the transmission tariff of the distribution network and 35% of Elering's transmission tariff. I mentioned here before the thoughts that should be considered in order to reduce or at least not increase this part of the electricity bill. The renewable energy charge is 7% of our electricity bill. Here I have a little complaint to MKM and Elering. In particular, we should have taken into account our national priorities for renewable energy when paying subsidies. We were halving our renewable energy targets last year, which also meant that we collected more and more money from consumers. Perhaps we should have acted in accordance with our responsibilities and should have obtained support accordingly. As we continue on the current schedule, we will have met the 2020 target in the next two years. Value added tax and excise duty account for 22% of our electricity bill. But, as I pointed out before, in order to reduce or replace it, another source of cover must be found. The Reform Party will not consider this option without a specific source of cover. In 2013, the price will be in relation to demand and supply and therefore no one will really know what this price will be. But given the current stock exchange prices, electricity can cost the consumer 20% more. The fact that we have inherited old power plants and electricity grids, the investment costs of which have been paid long ago and by someone else, has helped to keep the price of electricity down. Even if we did not open up our market, we should soon build new ones to replace these plants, which we are already doing. This costs a lot and would also be reflected as a significant price increase for the regulated market. However, all of this has been stopped enough today. I will not dwell on Estonia's greater integration with other electricity networks, which is a self-evident prerequisite for the functioning of the market and greater energy security. Estlink 2, Lithuania-Swedish and Lithuania-Swedish associations are a positive example here. As far as decoupling from Russia's system is concerned, it may prove to be unreasonablely expensive. Rather, we need to develop connections with other Western countries, which is already being done, and establish a common tax policy on black electricity coming from outside the European Union. Of course, Estonia must play an active role in shaping the European Union's carbon policy and in the market for green certificates. I think it would be practical to involve good specialists from the State Chancellery, because the officials of the MKM have not made much progress here. Estonia must certainly move forward with the necessary legislative and cost-benefit studies for the deployment of the nuclear power plant. Currently, the exchange price in Nord Pool's price area is lower because of the high share of nuclear and hydropower. If oil shale remains dependent on trade in CO2, the cost of electricity generation in the nuclear power plant can be locked down for 60 years, as the price of uranium as fuel has so far been quite stable in the world. Finally, as a member of the Estonian Energy Council, I would like to highlight some other important facts that have been mentioned today in this debate. The foreign investments of Eesti Energia are not made at the expense of the domestic consumer. Eesti Energia has invested in Jordan, where the money invested has already been re-earned several times due to the involvement of a minority shareholder. Morocco's options have been explored, but the conditions were not appropriate and this investment interest has disappeared today. As the largest consumer of liquid fuels in the US and the largest oil shale reserves, the biggest market is for one oil shale country, which we are. The oil supply of Eesti Energia in the USA is 2.6 billion barrels. If the minimum project sale price were to be calculated from a dollar or two barrels, it would be a very important owner's return for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U122	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Toomas Tõniste! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U123	Honourable Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the speakers above for their meaningful presentations. Electricity and the electricity economy can and must be discussed and discussed in many ways. It may look as if the price of electricity is a political issue in nature, but most components of the electricity price and certainly not the price of electricity itself are not a matter of priority political decisions. The main strategic task of the State is to ensure security of supply. Of course, laws have an impact on the cost of producing electricity, for example through environmental charges. Electricity bills also have components provided by the legislator, such as renewable energy charges and electricity excise duties. However, the main economic dimension is the costs which different producers are able to produce electricity at, and the market price as a result of their competition. Across Europe, opening up the electricity market is a meaningful idea to create a transparent market that guarantees consumers the fairest price for electricity. We have a common myth that the regulated cost-based electricity price of Narva Power Plants will provide us with cheap electricity. The price of electricity has been cheaper than that of our neighbours, because there have been old power plants in operation that have not had much to invest in. However, their working hours are coming to an end. If new stations are now being built, no electricity producer can automatically pass on all its costs to consumers, but it is reasonable that electricity producers, both us and neighbouring countries, compete with each other. What will be the price of electricity in contracts to be concluded for 2013, will be clear in the second half of next year when these contracts will be concluded. In any case, fearing the consumer is unfounded, as if the price of electricity is rising to astronomical heights. The draft law amending the Electricity Market Act submitted by the Government to the Riigikogu ensures that no consumer will lose electricity due to the opening of the market even if he does not sign a contract for the purchase of electricity. In this case, the consumer is obliged by the company providing the network service to sell the electricity to him under the general service. If we base the current electricity price on the open market share of Estonia, then the increase in the household consumer's electricity bill could be estimated at around 15% compared to today. At the same time, if we look at the changing rules of CO2 emissions trade throughout Europe as from 2013, i.e. at the same time as the opening of the market, then it could be said that the Estonian consumer will not lose anything even temporarily as a result of the opening up of the market. Why? Because a significantly higher price of CO2 would result in a significant increase in regulated electricity prices and possibly more than the price of an open market. The Estonian electricity market is partly already open, and if we look at the price at which industrial consumers buy electricity on the open market, we can see from the latest Eurostat data that Estonia, like Finland, is clearly in the open market among the European countries with lower electricity prices. It is wrong to imagine that the competitiveness of our economy on the world market or the economic coping of our families will depend heavily or even mainly on the price of electricity. We have quite few companies for which electricity is one of the main production inputs in terms of cost. According to Statistics Estonia, the average household spent 3.5% of the total annual costs on electricity in 2010. Consumers who do not use electricity directly for heating will spend an average of 2.8% of the budget. At the same time, transport costs are 11% of the average household budget and food costs as much as 24% of the annual costs. The pressure on electricity prices is therefore limited in view of the overall cost structure of the consumer and significantly lower than the pressure on food prices, for example. The decision taken during the summer on the construction of a new block of Narva Power Plants has also been echoed by doubts and criticism. In the light of the current European Union energy markets and climate policy, this may seem like a counter-flow swimming. However, this is a country's strategic decision to ensure long-term energy security, which cannot only be measured financially. As long as there are no new shocking technological solutions, we must ensure the security of electricity supply through the solutions we feel and have proven ourselves. Energy subsidies have led to various lobbyists throwing out visions that are useful to energy producers of one type or another, but not to consumers. However, major changes in energy production in favour of one type of production or another must be based on profitability, taking all costs into account, not viable but in artificially created conditions. Today, MKM is critically reviewing the state's direct subsidies and will come before us in the near future with proposals to improve the situation. Soon the government will also have to decide to participate in the Lithuanian nuclear plant project. This will be the subject of a detailed debate once the conditions for participation are known. Based on these, an assessment of participation in the project can be developed. The Lithuanian nuclear plant project is also a good reference material for the plan to build a nuclear plant in Estonia. On this basis, we see in very concrete terms how big the investments are for such a project, and we can decide on profitability. Over the last five years, the European Union has changed its energy legislation quite a lot, but in a renewed situation, the whole picture needs to be reviewed. For Estonia, three main issues are important here. Harmonisation of conditions of competition between countries of the European Union and third countries. In Estonia's circumstances, this means, first and foremost, regulating the distortions of the price of electricity from Russia. Secondly, the creation of new links between the countries of the European Union. For Estonia, it is important that the communication outlines the direction of developing our electricity system, just to synchronise the Baltic electricity grids with the central European electricity system. Thirdly, new connections with non-EU countries have been proposed to change their approach and to negotiate all such projects not at the level of Member States' companies, but at the level of the European Union. This means that there should be no future implementation of projects such as Nord Stream where the countries affected by the project are excluded. Such projects should be further negotiated as a joint decision of the European Union. The time has come to look freshly at the development plan of the Estonian electricity economy. There have been quite a number of changes in Estonian energy since it was confirmed. The electricity exchange has started, Elering has been separated from Eesti Energia, Estlink 2 has started, renewable electricity production has multiplied, new blocks of Narva Power Plants have started, European Union legislation has been improved. We also need to critically look at the reality of future scenarios when creating a new development plan and find a way to secure and sustainable electricity supply at a reasonable price. At the beginning of next year, MKM will again launch public discussions on the future of our electricity, with the aim of reaching a renewed development plan in 2013. These will certainly be interesting discussions, from which the best solutions for Estonia should emerge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U124	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U125	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Undoubtedly, the price of electricity is not only important for our economy and for our people, but very important. The development of our economy, the development of one country's economy, depends very much on the price of its electricity. We can give examples of our recent history; we can look around at how the price of electricity in our neighbours has changed investments, how companies and businesses view the price of electricity. There is a great deal to be said about these examples. Today, there has been talk about how this will affect households, and it will certainly affect the well-being of our people. The second topic. Can the state, can politicians, can the Estonian state influence the price of electricity? It has been very clear from politicians that the state cannot do anything about it. Actually, they can. Just as I have talked about this remote control a lot of times, and today it came through here too, that the consumer is an industrial consumer, or that is a consumer who is really interested in the consumer price, the money that is being paid for megawatts or kilowatts. This price depends on three components, which are practically the same size. Firstly, it is the market price, secondly there are network charges, so-called electricity transport, and thirdly there are taxes. A place where the state and politicians can have a say is certainly taxes. If we take out our electricity bill, we now have a tax share of nearly one third of the electricity price. The state can certainly have a say in this regard. Another thing where the Estonian state can have a say. Why do I say Estonia? Because the distribution of Eesti Energia is in the hands of the Estonian state today. What is the investment policy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Eesti Energia and the core network? Are we going to make high-cost networks, invest a lot in it, and then the transmission charges are going to be higher, nothing to do? Are we making 'golden networks' or are we making networks with less investment, managing these networks optimally, cheaper? There is quite a lot to be said by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in this regard, as well as by us in order for the Ministry of Economic Affairs to do so. So with my second block of talk, I wanted to say that the country can actually have a say and must contribute to making the price of electricity cheaper in our country. Let me give you a specific example. It was twenty years ago when one of the first major investors was brought to Kunda when the sale of Kunda's cement plant was practically started. The strategic investors were present, they had a slight review of the raw material base, clear. But then they asked what the price of electricity was, what the price of energy was. This was one of the key issues for all investors who wanted to get across the threshold. From the same Kunda, we can give another example when Estonian Cell came to Estonia five or six years ago with his factory. - Exactly. - Yeah. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U126	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U127	...just the electricity price, it was very seriously considered. The trends observed in Estonia were examined as to what the capacities were. More research was done on what's going on around electricity, not how to make their own production, technology and technology, these things were clear to them. For example, the technical situation of Kunda's cement plant did not concern almost anyone. In this sense, the price of electricity to producers is extremely important, whether or not they come here to do something, how they manage, it still depends very much on it. There's been a discussion here today about what the state can do with taxes, so tell me where to replace the money. We are not discussing this today, but we should discuss it. I think that the proposal is not only progressive income tax. Proposals must be made and respected. The tax element should definitely be reviewed. The Ministry of Economic Affairs would like to put to the heart that we must not build so-called golden nets, expensive nets. Using our networks is so small, so we need to look here for more rational solutions, much cheaper solutions. We can't build expensive nets. Ladies and gentlemen, let us address these questions. Unfortunately, all of us in this Chamber have not made our maximum contribution to this. But we are trying better so that the price of electricity in Estonia is lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U128	Thank you very much. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in the meantime, we all do what I had years ago when I was standing in the wardrobe of Tallinn University and no matter what, I heard two aunts talking. That was a few days before the Riigikogu elections. One said, "Well, have you picked out who you're voting for yet? ' The second said, well, of course, and named one name. The first aunt was interesting that maybe there's some kind of argument that maybe this candidate's okay with her too. He asked me why. 'Well, look, when he comes in, he always wipes his feet clean and he's decently dressed. ' 'Yeah, really! ' I'm sure those two sissies from the wardrobe went and voted for the lady who is a member of one of the current coalition parties. It was years ago, but it happens all the time, right? I stand practically in the middle of Estonia this year, my aunt steps in: life is so poor, my children are gone and my grandson is around, there is no job and there is no entertainment, the bank is 20 kilometres away, there is no mail and so on and so on. What's there to talk about? The first question (you have to put everything in order): 'But tell me, please, did you go to the elections? ' 'Yeah, I did. 'Who did you vote for? ' He called me a gentleman who is a member of another party in the current coalition. 'But why did you vote for him? ' 'Well, he played us the accordion, gave us the condoms, and the smell was so good, noble gentleman. 'That's quite typical. There is a vote because someone is politely dressed, someone smells good, they don't vote for ideas. I am very grateful to those who initiated this debate here in the Riigikogu today, because a certain message has come from here, and this message sounds like this: saving the drowner is a matter for the drowner himself. It could, of course, be divided into two parts. The first, to rephrase briefly, is to deal with energy savings, be economical, etc., etc. This is not particularly good for people, because this energy saving, savings, requires investments that a large part of our population is not capable of. The second part of the message is much more important: stop voting for the man with the accordion, stop voting for the polite lady who wipes the boots here! After all, look at what the party programs are about. Look who's telling you that it's not possible to lower excise duty and tax burdens. You see, not them alone in our politics, there are other political forces who put the average, ordinary person, his interests and needs at the forefront. Look who has a solid program to lower these same taxes and make your life cheaper. It's a little easier to keep talking to people about this message. So once again, thank you to everyone who was here today and expressed their thoughts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U130	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Thank you very much to the Social Democratic Party, which today launched a debate on this very important national issue. I would also like to thank all the speakers and all of you, good colleagues, who have asked questions or just listened to and had your thoughts on this discussion. The item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U131	We will move on to the next item, which is the first reading of the draft law 108 on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Please present a speech chair to Member of the Riigikogu Meelis Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! We have only recently dealt with a similar bill in this Chamber. It then carried number 54 of the draft law restricting the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic. The bill passed two readings and was then withdrawn by the Government of the Republic. As the next item, we will be dealing with Bill 110 initiated by the Estonian Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party, which, together with the amendments included in the procedure, is a copy of bill 54. I am here before you with draft 108 initiated by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Estonian Reform Party. This bill is distinguished from the aforementioned 54 SEs and 110 SEs by only one section of § 10, which we added to the 54 SEs during the proceedings in the Riigikogu. So I assume that the content of the draft law that we are dealing with should be quite well known to all of us. However, I do consider it necessary to give a small overview of the draft law and to emphasise the most important things. As the title of the Act states, the law imposes certain restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property in the public interest. They can be divided into two parts. Firstly, restrictions on the acquisition of land containing agricultural and forestry land aimed at promoting the targeted and sustainable management of agricultural and forestry land. Six out of ten sections of the law deal with these restrictions. As an interim remark, the draft is exactly the same as it was after two readings of the draft 54, and it is also the next item to be dealt with as the next item on the agenda. Secondly, restrictions based on national security considerations. The national defence restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property are laid down in § 10. This paragraph replaces the provisions of Section 3 of the KAOX and its regulation and restrictions in full. In addition to the law in force, national defence restrictions are extended to the procedure of transactions under the State Property Act. Limitations for defence purposes apply to local governments bordering the external borders of the European Union in accordance with the draft, plus Narva-Jõesuu and Sillamäe, and in the islands of Estonia except Saaremaa, Muhumaa, Hiiumaa and Vormsi. Persons not nationals of Estonia or of the country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area who are not established in the country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area shall be prohibited from acquiring immovable property in the abovementioned areas. At this point I consider it necessary to stress that, in addition to the citizens of Estonia, this section of the draft law does not restrict the acquisition of immovable property for defence purposes to citizens of 29 countries of the Agreement on the European Economic Area. These restrictions apply to the acquisition of immovable property by nationals of OECD Member States. The Government of the Republic may, for important reasons, authorise nationals of third countries to acquire land in those areas. Since 2003, when the current law came into force, the Government of the Republic has exceptionally issued only two such permits. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to prevent the question of why the Government of the Republic withdrew two draft laws that passed the reading in the Riigikogu, I will reply immediately. As regards the draft 54 initiated by the Government of the Republic, the amendment had to be included in § 10 (2), which provides for an exemption for natural persons from third countries residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term residence permit and allowed them to own immovable property up to 0.2 ha. At the time, the Rural Commission, as the lead committee, supported the proposal. As a hindsight, since the amendment concerned part of the draft national defence restrictions, we should have taken the time in the Commission and asked for at least the opinion of the National Defence Committee. I am quite sure that this kind of behaviour, in which committees are asking for each other's opinions, would contribute to better regulation. In accordance with our own Rules of Procedure, no amendments can be made to the draft after the second reading, and so the only possibility was that the Government of the Republic of the Originator of the draft had withdrawn the draft and then the two political groups re-submitted the draft. The National Defence Committee discussed s. A draft 110 to be discussed at the meeting on 17 November 2008 and the next item on the agenda. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, kapo and Ida-Viru County Government were also invited to the meeting. Following this discussion, the Committee on National Defence forwarded its views to the Committee on Rural Affairs. I think it is necessary to introduce them here a little bit. 'There is a need for restrictions. However, the current law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property does not cover all the problems. With regard to defence-related objects, the Ministry of Defence has not only identified border areas but also identified other objects and a number of possible topics for which the subject matter of restrictions should be defined at the level of the law. The National Defence Committee agreed that all issues related to restrictions and their importance will be dealt with in a comprehensive manner through a working group set up by the Ministry of Defence, and the corresponding proposals for amending legislation will be presented in a comprehensive package within six months of the Government of the Republic's proceedings. The National Defence Committee also recommends that representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the kapo be involved in the working group. The National Defence Committee recommends that the working group should base itself on the establishment of national defence restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property, not from the borders of the municipalities as a whole, as is currently the case with the law and the draft, but on the proximity of the immovable property to the defence or security object and to the state border. Such an approach would allow a large part of the properties to be exempt from restrictions on the acquisition of defenceal immovable property. Consideration should also be given to the application of restrictions to legal persons who, although registered in the country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, have a group of owners or members of the management bodies of third countries. ' Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we proceed now with this bill, finish the first reading and finally adopt it as a law. This is how we meet our commitments when we join the European Union and when we join the OECD. If we look at the drafts that have been submitted, we agree on the restrictions on the acquisition of arable land and forest land. I would like to thank those colleagues who proposed amendments to the draft 54. In doing so, they drew attention to the simplified and outdated approach to the current law and draft legislation on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property for defence purposes. These restrictions no longer serve their purpose, and they are also very easy and easy to circumvent. After a thorough preparation of the restrictions on immovable property for defence purposes, we will return as early as next year. Our goal here can only be a well-functioning and ambitious law. This is particularly so when the law concerns national defence and security. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U133	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, One polite question at first. Paragraph 10 (2) states: 'In the case of a state-important reason, the Government of the Republic may, by order, authorise the person referred to in paragraph 1 of this section to acquire immovable property in the areas referred to in that paragraph. ' We are talking about a self-employed person who is not a citizen of the country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area. We're talking about a major national cause here. For example, is investment in the Estonian economy, say, EUR 65000 an important enough reason to give a person the opportunity to escape this restriction? By the way, I assume you can't refuse an answer right now, you have signed this law, you have to say yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U135	Thank you for your question. I certainly won't refuse to answer. As I said in my report, since 2003, the Government of the Republic has exceptionally made only two such decisions. I can't describe exactly how this decision is being made, but I'm sure every application will be examined. I very much want to hope that the background will also be checked, and therefore the Government of the Republic will make an individual decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U136	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U137	Thank you. Dear waitress, You said that the amendment to the 54th draft procedure concerned restrictions based on national security. Can you tell us what are the security risks associated with the purchase of 0.2 hectares of land by people living in Estonia in the long term, who are not citizens of the Estonian state? Do you agree with the opinion expressed by some security structures and said in the media that Russians in general are a security risk in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U138	Thank you. Here you could answer in two parts. Firstly, the security risk is often not linked to whether the land to be purchased is 0,2 hectares or 1 hectare or 10 hectares. In a letter to the National Defence Commission, the Defence Police Department says that the main threat that may be posed by the land acquired is not the risk of attack, but counter-intelligence. It doesn't really matter whether the land is 0,2 hectares or 1 hectare. But there's a lot more of these risks. One of the aims of the restrictions could be to prevent the prevailing of a foreign community in some areas. Certainly also the need to check the perimeter of defence-related, security-related objects, not just to counter the threat of attack, but to counter-intelligence. There are also many high-risk objects in our country. It doesn't mean a military threat, maybe not directly, but it could also be some kind of terrorist act in the vicinity of these objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U139	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U140	Dear waitress, Narva-Jõesuu is a developing resort town, potentially becoming a pearl of the Baltic Sea. As a liberal, you will understand that any restrictions on the turnover of real estate hinder the development of the resort town. How would you feel about the idea of excluding Narva-Jõesuu as a whole from this so-called border zone? Finland and Latvia are also known to be protected without restrictions on the turnover of such property.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U141	Thank you. You're on the right track. As a liberal, I fully understand you, such land-limited restrictions are no longer appropriate. I also said in my report that we should take this section as a whole. Perhaps much of the land that is currently associated with the borders of the municipality should be freed up and national defence constraints linked to specific sites.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U142	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U143	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Can you speak out like this so that it would be understandable what the threat to the state is for Russian citizens living in Narva and Narva-Jõesuu and who have had a small piece of land for decades, which is now in gardening cooperatives? Why can't they get that piece of land they've been investing in out of their pockets for decades, educating it and taking care of it? Maybe it's an ironic question: are these gardening grounds also our security objects?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U144	Thank you. I understand your concern. Your colleague Stalnukhin and I also discussed the risk that there might be. I fully agree that there is probably no risk with the aunts or uncles who have the land there. But we can't sign in to the law like this, only those who have land there right now. This amendment, which has been tabled, also says that up to 0.2 hectares for those who hold a long-term residence permit. We don't know who they might be, who can buy it later. As I said, a much smaller plot of land could be enough to pose some kind of danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U145	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U146	Thank you. Dear waitress, In your speech, you said it was easy to circumvent this law. I think it is easy to circumvent many Estonian laws, which gives us a beautiful overview of what came out in the last seven days. That for some Vladivostok or Podolski mafia boss, it's only important to find one IRL guy, pay the right place and have a residence permit, he has a company, and he can buy dozens of hectares. When we talk about these national defence restrictions, don't you think it's much more dangerous for the state to come with mafia money, there's no difference between Russia and Colombia, and under this law, these people are free to buy dozens of hectares? Shouldn't you be dealing with this, not with your long-term population?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U147	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U148	Thank you. I totally agree with you. As I said in my report, that is what we should be dealing with when we start discussing this section, counting these objects, which could be either a state border or objects at risk of attack, or objects of moral importance to us, and which we should guarantee security. We should narrow them down by it, not by land.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I cannot appreciate what horror movies the kapo has watched as a former police officer, because the last, most serious and almost the only threat and risk of Estonian counterintelligence has been Hermann Simm, who was a member of Estonia's largest legal entity, the government board. Hence my question: Do you, as a waitress, not think that in this case the defence police should deal with each case on a case-by-case basis rather than look for ways to reduce their jobs? As we can see, neither has it been achieved to exclude the granting of residence permits. There was a law, but they still came in.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U150	Thank you. In this respect, it should be stressed that, by its nature, all these restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property are of a preventive nature. Surely this is no longer the time when we believe that the state border should be cleansed of the population within several hundred metres, perhaps betoned and full of barbed wire. We need to look at prevention so that we can also check the background of the people who are about to acquire this land. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U151	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I will continue my question with the other half. Perhaps it would still be useful to develop a mechanism to give an opportunity to those currently in possession of this land. They live here and do everything they can to support Estonia, it is understandable, and they also support Estonia with resources. If they are not supported, there will be a problem for others, for everyone else, who are Estonian citizens and owns this country. For example, let us say that neighbors do not take care of their country and that others have to pay for all things. That's also a problem. And that's not one thing, there's thousands of them. I still need to see it in the law. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U153	Thank you. I agree with you that if someone fails to care for their land, the neighbors immediately wonder why one has not cared for, and this attitude is beginning to grow. But, as I said, the proposal of the National Defence Commission to the Ministry of Defence was to put together a working group within six months and then to develop amendments to this section as a whole so that the paragraph would meet its objectives and, at the same time, the possibilities of turning around would be taken away and could not be so easily bypassed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U154	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When you presented the draft, you mentioned the economic space of the European Union and the OECD Member States. Did you use other people's experience in writing the bill? How, for example, have such issues been resolved in Finland or Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U156	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U157	Thank you. When I prepared this performance here, I ordered a job from the legal experts of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, where they watched how these matters had been resolved in the European Union. It turns out the practice is very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U158	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You are also known to have been working quite a bit along the border, but this has been the southern end of Estonia. We talk a lot about the problem that has developed eastwards, around Narva and along the Narva River, but do you see the same dangers in the south, at the lower edge of Peipsi?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U159	Thank you. There is probably no problem in South Estonia. Once again, as a person with a right-wing view of the world, I do not fully understand why, for example, the Räpina Municipality is also inside the area mentioned in the draft law, , a few decades from the border to the interior, a citizen of the United States of America or a Canadian citizen would not be able to freely purchase land. We have different problems there in South Estonia. As we know, Setumaa is now divided between two countries, and on the other side of the border there are Seta's lands where they have similar problems in managing their countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U160	Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U161	Thank you. Good waitress! What is the possibility that the Government of the Republic may grant a separate authorisation for an important reason? What are these important reasons? If, in eight years, it has only occurred twice, as you said, why is this opportunity left?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U162	Thank you. It's probably not possible to write all the important reasons in this law. Indeed, since 2003, this derogation has been used twice. I'm convinced it was good citizens who got this country. These reasons, whatever they may have, I don't know, it's an individual decision of the Government of the Republic every time. This is not the decision of the mayor or one minister or one head of department. I believe there's a risk that this country could become the wrong person, eliminated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U163	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Mälberg. I call on Mr Aare Heinvee, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to present the report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 108 on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property was discussed by the Rural Commission at its meeting on 21 November. As a representative of the initiators of the draft act, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Meelis Mälberg presented the draft and answered the questions of the members of the committee. On a proposal from the chairman of the committee, this draft was discussed together with the draft initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group 110, which is the next item on today's agenda. These two drafts are both inspired by draft law 54 on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Government of the Republic, which was withdrawn by the Government of the Republic before the final vote. The drafts differ only with regard to national defence restrictions. Paragraph 10 of both drafts provides for restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property by persons who are not nationals or legal persons of the State of the Agreement on the European Economic Area. The 110 draft proposal proposes a single distinction here, but beyond that, the next item on the agenda. The Government of the Republic also gave an opinion on both drafts. The opinion was notified to the Commission in writing by the Minister for Agriculture. The Government of the Republic decided to support the draft 108, according to which national defence restrictions will not be changed in comparison with the current law. The drafts were also discussed by the National Defence Committee at its meeting on 17 November. At the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, 108 representatives of the initiators presented the views of the National Defence Committee orally. In writing, the Committee on National Defence forwarded its position to the Committee on Rural Affairs on 23 November, i.e. after the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs. The National Defence Committee sees a need to further address the issue of national defence restrictions. The committee decided to consensually send bill 108 to the Riigikogu for the first reading, to propose to the assembly to stop the first reading and to set ten working days for the deadline for submitting 108 amendments in accordance with Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U165	Thank you very much, Mr Heinvee. Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U166	Thank you. Dear waitress, You said that the only difference between this draft and the previously pending draft is one amendment, the proposal for national defence restrictions. When Mr Aivar Kokk presented the draft 54 at second reading in this Chamber, he said that the Commission was consensually determined to support this amendment. He had also asked the Minister for Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder, and the Minister for Defence, Mart Laar, who also supported the proposal. I understand that the reform party has, in essence, been opposed to this change. How do you assess the work of the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs, which is part of the Reform Party, given that there was a lot of time spent reading draft 54 and, for some reason, this point was not brought to the attention before?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U167	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U168	Thank you. This point can also be approached simply because of the competence of specialists in each area. While the Committee on Rural Affairs examined the draft within the limits of its competence, professionalism, the Rules of Procedure for the Processing of All Drafts provide that assessments of both direct and indirect effects should also be taken from representatives of other sectors. The members of the Reform Party quite rightly pointed out that perhaps the lack of advice on certain issues from the more competent persons, in particular the National Defence Committee, was reckless.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U169	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As far as I know, the Department of Defense has also analysed the subject. Has the Committee on Rural Affairs arrived at positions such as those of the Defence Police Department, where it is said that there are little security risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U170	Thank you. Haven't arrived yet. But I can repeat the words of the author of the bill that, on the proposal of the National Defence Committee, a working group will be convened to deal with these matters in greater depth. Well, I guess the Kapo's positions will come out more clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U171	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U172	Dear waitress, Did I draw the correct conclusion from your reply to Mr Ossinovski that you expressed the opinion that the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, Mart Laar, is not a competent specialist in this field, because he and I have a written certificate on this matter
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U173	We certainly do not question the competence of the Minister of Defence. As I said before, the identification of certain effects on each draft would still require a more broad approach, a reflection. That's how the bill was treated. Maybe only the Secretary of Defense isn't enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U174	No further questions. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeni Ossinovski, I would like to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U175	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party has no objection to the amendments provided for in this draft, which are rather technical in nature and result from several foreign agreements, but against the way politics are done in Estonia. We remember how before us there was a similar draft of the Government of the Republic 54, which has already been discussed quite a bit here today. On this point, I and a few other members of the opposition have tabled amendments which would amend chapter 3 of the law, 'State defence restrictions', which, of course, are hopelessly obsolete in itself. It prohibits non-citizens from acquiring land in the local government of Estonia, which is close to 20 against the Russian border. In fact, not even against the Russian border in the municipalities, because the municipality of Toila, for example, also belongs to it. By quoting Jaak Allik, we might ask if we might be robbing beaches at night. In many border regions, however, this provision has created serious problems for people. For example, problems related to the turnover of garden caverns already cited, people cannot buy or sell this land, because the potential buyer is not an Estonian citizen. As usual, if regulation is stupid, they'll find ways to circumvent it. This has happened and the land has been purchased through companies registered in Estonia, which are not covered by this provision. It has developed into a kind of opaque business scheme, perhaps not very different from what has come out of the press in recent days. Therefore, the objectives of this provision of the law are in fact not fulfilled. So, in essence, non-citizens still receive these lands and, at the same time, not the most transparent profits are earned by the intermediaries who, through the companies, organise the purchases and sales of these countries. According to the amendment, non-citizens living in Estonia on a long-term basis or nationals of another country would be allowed to buy up to 0.2 hectares of land. In the debates held both in Parliament and in the press, it has been argued that this change may pose a security risk, people from Russia will move to border areas and deal with anti-Estonian espionage there. There was talk of counterintelligence, to which the kapo referred in his letter. I don't see any way this order would prevent that. In any case, people who can potentially do so should be dealt with, not with the land where they can do it. In the light of the news of recent days, it has also been attempted to argue that the ministers of the IRL, namely the Minister for Defence and Agriculture, who supported this change in their own time, did so in order to oil the business of the residence permit of some of their party associates. This is where I have to justify Mart Laar and Helir-Valdor Seeder, because this argument is complete nonsense. The amendment does not concern the Russian people. In a very large number of cases, as well as in the letter from the Kapo, it has been confused that this change does not concern the Russian people who, for example, wish to buy a summer house in Narva-Jõesuu. Russia has nothing to do with this. Andrus Ansip, answering my questions in Question Time on 19 October, also said some nonsense about the restrictions on buying land in border areas in Russia. Russia has nothing to do with this. I repeat, the amendment concerned people living in Estonia on the basis of a long-term residence permit. Fortunately, it is not so bad in Estonia that an open-ended residence permit can be bought, I hope. Therefore, this change concerns only our own people, not the new-rich or counter-inventors coming from Russia or anyone. And if the kapo thinks, as their opinion was quoted here, that the prevalence of non-Estonians in border regions poses a security risk to Estonia, then perhaps a single Russian living in Estonia, like a single Estonian or a person of other nationality living in Estonia, may be a risk, but it should still be dealt with this person. Speaking of the Russians, they become a security risk, not depending on whether they have land here or not, but rather because the state consistently shows that it does not want to deal with the problems of these people. As I said, land can be bought through certain business schemes anyway. In fact, it is clear, of course, that our amendment did not go through because it was presented by the opposition ambassadors. Unfortunately, we still have a situation where the coalition does not want to give the opposition any political points, no matter how concrete the proposal is. We've gotten used to this roller coaster. Unfortunately, such a low political culture leaves important problems in our country unsolved, and this is already a real security risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U176	Thank you very much, Mr Ossinovski. Please, Mr Stalnukhin, as representative of the Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U177	Ladies and gentlemen, There's really nothing wrong with this bill. A little something's missing, little one. He's like a toothless dog. Looks great, but there's no use. The only thing that was supposed to be useful and voted in was later expelled. What is lacking in this bill is that the Beatles answered this question 50 years ago: all you need is love everything you need is love. Love for people who pay taxes live in this country, raise their children here who do not turn their backs, run away to look for a better life abroad, who get a lower salary than the average in Estonia gets. Show me a little bit, all right, if not love, then respect, at least respect! I'll be back to Narva. It's winter months, winter passes fast, gardening meetings come, where I go quite often. They ask me again that, well, you already wrote, you even thanked the government, specifically the Minister for Agriculture, the Committee on Rural Affairs. There was just an incident in the Commission where a colleague said that now you could thank everyone. Damn, I did! Was it necessary for me to do this to get the government to withdraw the change? So what do I tell people? If my name were Koit Pikaro, I'd say in a few words: crooks, villains, and that's it. Or if I were a representative of the Coalition Party and used your methods, especially pre-election methods, I'd start talking about what you want, paedophiles and corruptions all, and if you don't have the money to use some kind of jock scheme, then you're absolutely not interested. It's true! But since I'm not part of your parties, I'm more polite and I'm gonna tell them what you want, they want to do analysis. Subscribe to one analysis and find out how you and your 10th century threaten the Estonian state. Then I'm sure they'll ask me, "Hey, man, this law had a different title, but that's the law you started dealing with in 1999. Twelve years ago, how long do they plan to think? How much time does the Republic of Estonia and its government need to analyse any particular situation, is it 12 years? Ain't nothing to do with 12 years, 12 years! Let's get on with it. Our group will not, of course, vote against this law. As said by another big music group, Queen: show black go on with this show! However, despite the fact that this point is not as national as important as you might think, it is one of the indicators of how we intend to view our population now and in the future. We come up with amendments, we will continue this discussion. You throw out the next bill, we'll come back with it. We will discuss this exactly as long as it is clearly stated that yes, we will give to those who live here permanently, many of whom are born here and pay taxes, this right, or no, we will not give, with the justification of how they threaten our national defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U178	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting 108 amendments on 22 December at 4 p.m. First reading of Bill 108 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U179	The last item is the first reading of the Bill 110 on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin, a member of the Riigikogu, to speak on the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U180	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present you with a draft law that was submitted to the Riigikogu procedure by two political groups, the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. One of the previous speakers said at the debate on the previous draft that we are all sufficiently informed about this issue that we will not go over again. We are really well aware of this issue. So all I have to say is that the difference between the two drafts really lies in § 10 (2). What was paragraph 2 of the previous draft is now paragraph 3 and we have added this text: 'The limitation provided for in subsection 1 of this section shall not apply to a natural person residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit who acquires an immovable property of up to 0,2 hectares. " We sincerely believe that if there is any desire to restrict the rights of the Russian-speaking population, you can do so freely in another law and under other points. This chapter, entitled 'National defence restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property', does not fit in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U181	Thank you very much. Any questions? Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U182	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! You've dealt with this problem for quite a few years, you've met and you've met a lot of government officials. Listening to this discussion, there are different opinions about this 0,2 ha of land, and there are strange views about the security of the country. Could you give your opinion on how these 0.2 hectares could be dangerous for the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U183	Thank you, dear colleague. I have really dealt with this issue for many years and discussed it with several ministers. We have discussed, for example, the possibility that maybe tomorrow there will be war, tanks coming across the river. Does this agressortank get a parking space on any private property? That's bullshit. By this time, those who are not nationals of the country of the EEA Agreement and who live here regularly will have residence permits, they will work, they will pay taxes, their children will study at school, their relatives will be at the local cemetery, etc. One of them has bought them out for 20 centuries, puts a flag on it to mark a parking lot so that no private property practices have been violated. If anyone asks what is the point of the ban on selling this 0.2 hectare, I can only give examples of this. Maybe it's complete stupidity, it's bullshit.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U184	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U185	Thank you. I don't mean to make a joke, but in the debate on the previous point, we saw that each authority has its own interests and its own tasks. The Ministry of Agriculture looks at it the same way, the security authorities look at it differently. I appreciate you as a talented person. However, if you were to be given such a role that you had to figure out how to use this plot in an emergency in a way that would give this activity a threat to the state, would you be able to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U186	Thank you. Oh, from this angle. Well, for example, he buys himself 20 centuries and builds a barracks there so that the gang that comes across the border would have a place to sleep, a warm food, so that everything would be ready. It's his private property, he can do any kind of thing in there. What are you talking about? That's the logic! That's the logic of these defenseal restrictions. What other logic can you find here, explain it to me. Twelve years I ask you to explain to me what this is all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U187	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U188	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a short question. Do you see any future opportunity to deal with the two drafts submitted together (108 and 110) in order to find an optimal compromise?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U189	Thanks, that's a very good question, because that's what I didn't tell you. It was said in the committee that there was no such practice in this composition and probably in the previous composition, but at times that I remember in the IX and X Riigikogu, it was common practice. When the first reading was completed, it was possible to put together two drafts from different places. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, the question was simply a bit wrong. If it had been put to the vote not to stop reading the first reading, the result would have been achieved by the votes of 3 to 3 in order to conclude. However, the proposal to close the first reading was put to the vote and the same vote was 3: 3 was the result that it would not stop. But we discussed it, even though no one remembers such a practice. Thank you, that is a very good suggestion. So as a waitress, I would suggest that we stop reading it today and discuss it. We have enough time to put these two drafts together. Imagine how beautiful it would look, all four groups of the Riigikogu together under a single document. Let us show people that we can find a common language for once in four years!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U190	No further questions. Thank you very much. I would now like to call on Mr Aare Heinvee, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, on the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U191	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law restricting the acquisition of immovable property 110 was discussed by the Rural Affairs Committee at its meeting on 21 November. As a representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group, the initiators of the draft act presented the draft and answered questions from members of the committee by Mikhail Stalnukhin. As I mentioned in the previous report, this draft, together with draft 108, was discussed. Unlike draft 108, the chapter of the draft national defence restrictions states that a natural person living in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit has the right to acquire an immovable property of 0.2 ha in a municipality with national defence restrictions. According to the founder's representative, such a distinction would help to buy and sell land in gardening cooperatives. Mr Stalnukhin proposed that the two drafts be merged. The Government of the Republic did not support the Bill 110. In making its decision, the Government relied on the positions of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence that the issue of national defence restrictions requires in-depth analysis and that, prior to the results of the analysis, it is not appropriate to amend the restrictions laid down in the current KAKS law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property. The Commission decided unanimously to send the draft to the first reading of 110. The Commission voted to close the first reading of the draft, with 3 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 1 abstention not supporting the proposal. The Commission's proposal is therefore to reject the 110 draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U192	Thank you very much, Mr Heinvee. You have questions. Let's start with colleague Evgeny Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U193	Thank you. I would also ask you what, in the Commission's view, the security risks involved in this change will be. Do you support the opinion of the National Defence Committee, say, the input to what has already been quoted here, the opinion of the Defence Police Department, that it could also deprive the owners of the right to purchase apartment property if they are non-citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U194	Thank you. This bill, as well as the law in force, differs from most other laws due to the fact that the defence aspect has been explicitly highlighted. The Committee on Rural Affairs does not really consider itself to be competent to assess the defence aspect, and that is why we addressed other, more competent bodies. The question is, would you take away the right to purchase apartment property? Well, certain things come from the logic of earlier laws, which was also due to the Land Reform Act, and the Land Reform Act did not foresee such restrictions. While the Commission was very superficially concerned with the issues that this law still affects, these differences were not mentioned in this respect to take away the right to purchase apartment property.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U195	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U196	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You also discussed a lot in the Commission in favour of national defence. I have this sort of speculative question. We'll take the Peipsi border, like the Alajõe area. Border guard towers are located on the territory of the villages, surrounded by cottages with land plots belonging, for example, to the people of St Petersburg, Russian citizens. Can you appreciate the danger that such an environment poses to these security objects, and are you going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U197	Thank you. As I have already replied many times, the Committee on Rural Affairs did not discuss or evaluate defence aspects in this way, because we thought that it would be wiser and more competent bodies and individuals who could draw attention to them and analyse them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U198	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U199	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Co-Rapporteur, I'm kind of confused. Here, in the course of this few hours, I heard at the beginning that the kapo in its letter requires greater restrictions and thinks that this issue is important and that this policy needs to be continued. My colleague claims that Mr Time, Director of the Capo, went to the Commission and answered the question about the lands of these gardening cooperatives that this is a complete mess and that there is no danger there. Please tell me if there has been a letter from the Capo in the Commission, and if so, if you are familiar with it, what does it actually say in that letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U200	Thank you. The Commission presented the views of the National Defence Committee orally. All members of the Commission also received these views in writing, but the letter from the Commission has not been presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U201	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U202	Thank you. So much has been said here, but I would like to ask you a question, because the subject has become so exciting. You've dealt more closely with this law, and you've got an idea of what the danger is. Can a machine gun be set up there, or can one of the diversants' headquarters in a summer house, a cabin in a greenhouse, for example, or can you spy something between pea sticks? What is the content of the dispute about simply saying so to the people who come to a meeting of the gardening cooperative? What's the danger of Anna Ivanovna, her knife being taken there, or what's the content?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U203	Thank you, good Commissioner. As you know very well, in the Commission we did not approach this point in this way. What was said in the Commission was that it might still be worth evaluating these threats. As we have heard of the promise, in six months' time, more constructive proposals should come, and you too should be able to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U204	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U205	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question is that, according to the current procedure, we continue to restrict a very large part of the Estonian population to one of the fundamental rights, the possibility of having land. What is your view, what kind of signal does it send to people living in border areas that are permanent residents of Estonia, but who will continue to be subject to a very important restriction?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U206	Thank you. He is sending this signal that Estonia is the rule of law and has regulated our functioning in the country by its own laws. According to these laws, people must act. I guess there are also ways to become owners of such immovable property.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U207	Please, Mr Lenk, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U208	Thank you. We're on the same committee, but I'd still grab on to it right now. What was the meaning of the expression 'these dangers will be further investigated', which means 'these threats'? That it will continue to be investigated that in a few months it will become clear what these dangers are.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U209	Literally, I can also say that the chapter of the law deals with national defence restrictions. There will never be restrictions, restrictions simply to bully someone. I guess there's some kind of problem that needs to be analyzed. Whether they can be called dangers is the authority of everyone's own words.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U210	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U211	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The question that comes is personal enough and I do not necessarily force you to answer. Life is like once you think of one, once you think of another. Sometimes you remember what you said and what your thinking was like 10, 15, or 20 years ago, and you realize that you've changed, you realize that something has happened to your worldview. Well, that kind of thing happens. But usually it takes some number of years, 10, 20 is normal. The Commission changed its mind here, radically, in a few weeks. Don't you think that's weird and how you feel? How do you think a member of the Commission, who was in favour at a certain point and who is opposed in two weeks' time, feels?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U212	Thank you. Now, if you really answer personally, I believe that this would be a very bad option for all of us if people didn't change at all. Twenty-year-olds don't have to stay that way when they're 40, 50, 60. But the fact that the Committee on Rural Affairs as a whole changed its decision was due to the same fact that we are perhaps experts on agricultural and rural matters, but not on defence issues. That's how we turned to the wiser ones for advice. I don't think it's wise not to listen to the advice of smarter people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U213	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Having listened to these questions, both on this and on the previous and even earlier drafts, and especially on the new ones, it seems that people who use these gardens are trying to take away something, to prevent them from going there, so that they, like they should not put their turnips, carrots or potatoes down in the future and do everything else. Was it also the subject of the debate in the Commission that people who use these parcels are being taken away from them, are they being denied anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U215	Thank you. Certainly no rights are being deprived of the present owners. While the Commission discussed this issue, many owners no longer want to own the land, they do not want to cultivate it or they are no longer able to do so. However, any civil turnover in immovable property is appropriate for each country. These points were mainly touched. But rights are not restricted and nothing is taken away from anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U216	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U217	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I, as a little warrior, would ask such a question. Let's say the painting is the owner, there's aggression against our country, and I need to dig a machine gun nest. Does the Committee on Rural Affairs have a position here as to whether I can dig this machine gun nest or whether I have to do a front line and develop protection, position in a situation where the land owner is absent? Does the Committee on Rural Affairs look to the future, perhaps we should go through this matter from a national defence point of view to put down cannons and machine guns?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U218	Thank you. Although this issue was not discussed as such in the Committee on Rural Affairs, I can say that the Committee on Rural Affairs knows very precisely what the purpose of the land is and what the regular use of the land is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U219	Please, colleague Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We have been able to listen here for a long time to enthusiastic speeches and questions about how people who live with a long-term residence permit cannot use their real estate. One member of the Riigikogu told us long and eagerly how he has been working on the subject for 12 years and it is not moving at all. I have one simple question: does the Commission also have a topic to discuss, why should those people who want to conduct transactions freely with their real estate not take on the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U221	Thank you. I guess this was a bit of a question that went through the Commission, and I also referred to my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, that there are other laws on which it is still possible to acquire. Indeed, one of the easiest ways to acquire immovable property is to acquire Estonian citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U222	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U223	Dear waitress, I was inspired by the latest questions. Do you think or does the Committee on Rural Affairs think that if any of these terrible people who could acquire this 0,2 hectares of land successfully pass the Estonian language and citizenship test, the security risk to the Republic of Estonia will immediately disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U224	Thank you. In this respect, the Committee on Rural Affairs did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U225	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Heinvee. Let's start the negotiations. I would like to ask my colleague, Jaak Allik, as representative of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U226	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, By defending the legal amendment before you today, according to which natural persons who live in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit, but are not nationals of the country of the EEA Agreement, by way of exception, to acquire immovable property up to 0.2 hectares in the so-called border zone, I have many allies here and outside the hall. Firstly, it is all of you who already unanimously supported this amendment on 21 September. Thank you for that. Secondly, the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and the Minister of Defence Mart Laar supported such a proposal, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the text of the 54 second readings. Thanks to them, too! Thirdly, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, who, in answering my question in Question Time on 19 October, found that as a liberal he did not understand such a restriction on the sale of immovable property in relation to the border zone and, I quote, tended to share my view that the whole border zone could be a Soviet relic. Thank you, too, for the good man. I have another very strong ally, but later on. What happened then that, despite the unanimous support of the parliament, the government and the Prime Minister, the government coalition is rejecting today our proposal to make such a tiny concession and to allow the long-lived and working countrymen, often even born here, to acquire gardening caverns around Narva or even Räpina and the tiny cottages there? What happened, however, was that it probably seemed to some politicians, and I think that this time from the Reform Party, maybe the points for this humane step will go to the wrong parties. The panic began and the so-called power structures were allies, who found that the existence of national defence restrictions is necessary to preserve the territorial integrity of the Estonian state and to ensure constitutional order and security and so on and so forth. Given that there is no such restriction in Finland and Latvia, not to mention the ban on the sale of gardening plots of 0.2 hectares, it is, of course, horrifying to think of the great daily danger of daily security and constitutional order in these unfortunate countries. But that's it. Of course, there are no people in this Chamber who, knowing that most of these garden houses together with the area (in the city of Narva there are 6418 and around Narva-Jõesuu 619) belong to and remain owned by non-citizens anyway, and knowing how many new buildings, including real castles, belong to companies in the same area with non-citizens on the board, and that, thanks to the efforts of some colleagues, the number of such companies is growing, we believe seriously that we are discussing some security issue here. Or that the security risk would immediately disappear if one of these persons successfully passed the Estonian language and citizenship exam. There are, of course, no stupid colleagues among us. No, we are, actually, dealing with another issue, the issue of how to pettyly bully those of our countrymen who are not Estonian citizens and whose non-discrimination according to Estonian law we so loudly love to tell about all kinds of European controls. At the same time, by voting down the proposal to grant 130 kroons per year to Chernobyl veteran or to grant Estonian citizenship to a child of a thousand stateless persons, unless they have requested any other citizenship, as the Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder suggests. Now you will not allow these people to buy garden land or sell their own garden land to your good acquaintances or neighbors. I stress that it is not the Russian citizens who have the right to buy or half the city through their own companies who have bought a residence permit here, but basically the entire life of the simple people who live in Estonia, whose strength does not exceed 0.2 hectares. These are the ones that the coalition particularly wants to bully. But here I take as an ally the so-called security expert and Eerik-Niles Kross, who recently joined the IRL, who wrote in Postimees on 6 December: 'Last week it has become the impression that the biggest security threat in Estonia is 147 Russian businessmen trying to escape Putin's power, to whom Indrek Raudne and Nikolai Stelmach helped to obtain a residence permit. That kind of chicken blindness is frightening. ' Here I fully agree with Mr. Kross. I would not be so sure that this businessman's motive was to escape Putin's power, but the fact is that thousands, if not tens of thousands of fellow countrymen, who are constantly being pettyly bullied by the coalition, are thus pushing Putin towards power. And this is indeed a great security threat for Estonia. Here I come to the main problem: what is the security risk and what is not? It must still be decided by politicians in a democratic country, that is, you and I, because we are ultimately responsible for it. It is important not to get behind the power structures in this decision, nor to allow them to dictate to us decisions in which they can simply rely on the interests of the authorities. Let them still be responsible for disarming the individual who threatens our security, not for putting the people potentially loyal to Estonia among Estonia's enemies. But this is precisely the objective of rejecting the 110 drafts proposed here today. This is just as stupid if, in the light of the latest facts, someone would propose a bill that Estonia will not grant residence and work permits to third-country nationals at all. It remains to be remembered that every member of the Riigikogu is responsible for his or her vote in history, not the party, nor the defence police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U227	Thank you very much, Mr Allik. Please, Mr Stalnukhin, as representative of the Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U228	You can talk to the end if you don't speak to 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U229	I have a procedural question. What happens at 4:00?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U230	Great, thank you! I guess it won't take three minutes. Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Homo sapiens is a thinking person in Estonian. Well, in the hope that there are more homo sapiens in the hall, thinking people than anything else, I'm talking about the person who weighs today. I don't know how it's supposed to sound in Latin, but our country is now full of people who weigh them, those who think about what to do next. How to behave in a situation where there is no job or a low wage if the child does not speak enough Estonian and should go to grade 10, while he or she has the opportunity to receive upper secondary school education only in Estonian, which means that he or she will not have the language? I've been seeing these people all the time lately who've gone through this consideration. I recently drove from Tallinn to Kohtla-Järve, jumped out of the bus and smoked. Nearly the man walked and asked if I remember him, of course I didn't remember. Turns out I had taken his exam once. I've taken 20,000 exams, of course I don't remember. He remembered me and began to tell me that he was living with his wife and three children in Norway, and now he is going home to Narva to try to talk a hole in his head again so that he would come with them to Norway. There he learned this working language in a strange way. In my opinion, Norwegian is much harder than Estonian, but the demands are pragmatic, the right demands. Works and lives there, and his three children will become Norwegian citizens, who will in future insure him and the other Norwegians with a pension. We are the one who lost this man and his wife, who is also working, and their three children. There are many people who have taken such a decision. Every day thousands, tens of thousands of people continue to think about whether to stay in Estonia or leave Estonia. Maybe what we're dealing with right now is a tiny blade in this thinking, in this thinking, but it's an opportunity to decide whether to take one step against the Russian-speaking population or to face it again. So, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in the next four days you will have enough time to think about how to proceed with this. Is it for one empty tantrum that we have here to deal with this issue indefinitely? I hope the homo sapiens win this hall and you come to a normal decision. The normal decision is only one: we will finish reading the first reading of this draft, we will merge the two draft laws of the four political groups as a summary and we will continue to process them. So we can prove that we think about our people, those who live in Estonia, work here and pay us taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-08_U231	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. I'm closing the negotiations. Since our extended time is also over, we will continue to deal with this draft on Tuesday. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 2.02 p.m.
