ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the Private School Act and other laws. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the bill in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group initiates a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. It coincides with the legislative proposal on the same subject already pending in a certain part and to be discussed in this Chamber tomorrow, but the Social Democrats go a little further and look a little more forward than the colleagues from the Centre Party Group. Our draft proposes to lead both domestic and business consumers to the minimum required by the European Union and to the elimination of excise duties on electricity produced from renewable sources. The initiation of the draft has been largely due to the fact that it has become apparent from their discussions with voters that their joy in abolishing the taxation of the land under home is somewhat dimmed by the fact that there are significant other costs in Estonia of having a home and living at home, including money spent on electricity and indoors. According to our calculations, bringing excise duty rates to the minimum required in the European Union would reduce the price increase for household customers by 0.42 euro cents per kilowatt-hour and reduce the average family electricity bill by about 15 euros per year. Businesses' electricity costs would decrease by 0.48 euro cents per kilowatt-hour, which would certainly lead to increased competitiveness on international markets. The draft naturally promotes the use of electricity produced from renewable sources, which certainly has potential in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U6	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 19 central party members of the Riigikogu have prepared an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, whose subject is the salaries of school teachers. The point is that different sources, different newspaper articles, contain different statements and opinions. In our opinion, it would be right for the Riigikogu not only to look at this subject through one, another or the fifth, but also to give us a full picture of the matter. There are enough facts and statistics here that the Prime Minister very much loves. So we hope to be informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with the law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now the messages. First, the Board of the Riigikogu has returned to the Government of the Republic s. The draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the National Development Plan "Estonian Maritime Policy 2011" submitted on 12 September 2011 was published. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 15 September Estonia submitted its views on the European Parliament and Council Directive on energy efficiency, on the draft for the European Union Commission, and has appointed the Economic Commission to express its opinion on the position of the Government of the Republic and on the directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 9 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the European Parliament and Council Directive establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, submitted on 15 September, are addressed to the European Union Affairs Committee and have appointed the Legal Affairs Committee to express its opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 9 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Fourthly, I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Dear Riigikogu! Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U8	Let's start answering questions. There are ten questions on the agenda today. We will begin with the first inquiry, which will include the members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodichi, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Aivar Riisalu, Kalev Kallo and Vladimir Velman on 31 May in the s. a request for information on the regulation of surveillance activities. I would like to ask my colleague, Lauri Laas, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U9	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, So, on May 31, Deniss Borodich, a good colleague, handed over an inquiry to the Minister of Justice on behalf of seven members of the public from this very platform. The content of the inquiry is as follows: The regulation of surveillance activities, which will enter into force in 2012, poses a significant threat to the privacy of individuals, as the law allows for extensive and uncontrolled surveillance activities. Despite repeated attention-management by the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Bar Association to ensure stronger control over surveillance activities in order to ensure better protection of the rights and freedoms of individuals, the law in the Ministry of Justice significantly increases the powers of the Prosecutor's Office in authorising and supervising surveillance activities. The Ministry of Justice confirms that the aim of the law is to ensure better protection of people's fundamental rights, but in reality the opposite situation was achieved. According to the law, the legality of the authorisation of surveillance activities granted by the prosecutor's office is controlled by the prosecutor's office itself, which is not lawful. The increase in the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office under the law is contrary to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The right of the Public Prosecutor's Office to authorise a surveillance operation without the initiation of criminal proceedings will substantially increase the role of the Prosecutor's Office. Providing easier possibilities for surveillance activities, such as wiretapping outside criminal proceedings, ignores the prerequisites for effective protection of fundamental rights and freedoms set out in the Convention. The law does not provide people with effective legal protection in the event of possible violations by intelligence agencies. The Chancellor of Justice has therefore declared the procedure for notifying the surveillance operation to be partly incompatible with the Constitution. We have 11 questions for the Minister of Justice. We ask them for substantive and comprehensive answers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U10	Thank you very much, Mr Laas. The Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As the representative of the heirs said, there are 11 questions. I'm gonna try to answer them, and if anything gets messy, there's gonna be more to ask. All this questioning has to do with the subject of surveillance. Question 1: 'Why were the views and comments of the other institutions not taken into account on such important issues that a multilateral working group was currently required to be convened to thoroughly analyse the entire regulation of surveillance activities? ' In preparing the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws 286, the draft was coordinated with the ministries and sent to several other institutions for an opinion. The opinion on the draft was given by the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Estonian Bar Association. All of them participated later in the discussions on the draft Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. It cannot be argued in any way that the comments made by the other institutions were not taken into account. I would point out that it was substantially changed during the procedure in the Riigikogu, and it was precisely in cooperation between the various institutions. Several of the issues that have now been raised, such as the authorisation of surveillance activities, the identification of the criminal record and the circle of persons, were discussed, among other things, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but were not supported at the time. Since the discussion arose again after the adoption of the draft law, the Ministry of Justice considered that these issues should be analysed again and discussed with the various parties. I also note that the Chancellor of Justice's position regarding the non-compliance with the Constitution was not completed until three months after the adoption of the Act in the Riigikogu. I can add for information that the Riigikogu passed the Act on 17 February 2011 and the Chancellor of Justice's position was presented three months later. In the absence of such a position at the time of the adoption of the law, the group decided not only to discuss the questions raised earlier but also to take the views mentioned by the Chancellor of Justice. I would point out that the working group set up does not deal with the whole of the regulation of surveillance activities, but only with issues that have been the subject of discussion and have been found to be problematic. For information, there is currently a rather broad-based working group at the Ministry of Justice, involving representatives of the University of Tartu and the Riigikogu (chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee and Constitutional Affairs Committee), the barrister's office, the prosecutor's office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, all of whom are involved in the analysis of surveillance activities. It discusses the same issues, including whether authorisation for surveillance activities should always be decided by a judge. I think it's reasonable, but we're still waiting for the analysis. This analysis is being carried out, it could be completed in October, after which we can take further steps. The second question: Has the positions of the Ministry of Justice, which were used to defend Bill 286, changed? If so, which part? ' I can say that the positions of the Ministry have generally remained the same, while we certainly take the position of the Chancellor of Justice into account. As far as the remaining questions are concerned, they have been submitted to the working group for discussion and this is where the working group makes its decision (the one I mentioned earlier). As the working group has not yet completed its work, it is early to talk about final positions. The Ministry of Justice will certainly take into account the views of the working group in the preparation of legislative amendments and their presentation to the Riigikogu. The third question: 'Why, when the law comes into force for about six months, do you acknowledge that you consider it important to guarantee fundamental human rights? Rather, the new regulation encouraged strong interference with fundamental rights. " The Ministry of Justice has always considered it important that people's fundamental rights and freedoms are guaranteed. As a reminder, this is what the draft 286 was prepared for. I leave no comment on the view that the current regulation, i.e. the law on surveillance since 1994, will better protect the fundamental rights of individuals. I would point out that many years ago, the various institutions have found that the law on surveillance does not comply with a number of constitutional principles, such as the principles of proportionality and legal clarity. Unfortunately, it is not possible to claim that it will better protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. Without mentioning the specific details of the draft, it may be mentioned that the draft significantly strengthens the monitoring of the activities of the surveillance authorities and also restricts the conduct of surveillance activities for the prevention and prevention of criminal offences outside criminal proceedings. Question 4: "Is it clear to you today who, and in what way, can start surveillance activities and in what form must this be authorised? ' Yes, it is clear. Pursuant to the current Surveillance Act (this law, although no longer valid from the new year), surveillance procedures are initiated, if there is an incentive, by a letter from the Head of the Surveillance Authority or his authorised official. In addition, a tracking file will be opened. As far as specific surveillance activities are concerned, they also require a separate authorisation. Pursuant to the Surveillance Act, surveillance authorities and the court grant permissions to carry out surveillance activities. Where surveillance activities are carried out in criminal proceedings for the purpose of taking evidence, authorisations shall be granted by the prosecutor's office and by the court. I would point out that the regulation that will enter into force from the new year is slightly different from the one in force and will better protect the rights of individuals. In fact, since the new year, surveillance authorities may no longer grant permissions to carry out surveillance activities. This will require further authorisation from the prosecutor's office, which will mean a "higher level" and will allow more verification of the necessity and justification of surveillance activities. As I mentioned earlier, the working group will also discuss whether, in future, you should grant permissions for all surveillance activities, regardless of the size of the catalogue, by the courts. This analysis will be completed, and when it comes to it, maybe they'll move on from here. Question 5: 'The European Court of Human Rights is in Iordach v. Moldova (2009) has identified a significant breach of the ECHR on the grounds that 60% of the criminal offences in the Penal Code allowed surveillance activities. This figure is 68% in Estonia. What does such a solution mean for the application of Estonian criminal law? ' First of all, it must be stressed that when the Court accused Moldova of their regulation, it was not found to be an infringement of the Convention. This was done in the light of the specific features of the Moldovan legal system and cannot be transferred to one of the other countries. Returning to the task force on surveillance, I say that this issue has also been discussed there. The working group has found that all surveillance activities mentioned in the current law should not be surveillance activities. Since surveillance activities have now also been considered to be surveillance activities, which are by their very nature not surveillance activities, the circle of surveillance activities has been artificially increased to a very large extent. The same reason is due to the high percentage of criminal offences that allow surveillance activities. In this context, it is intended to request different owners and call rings. It should be stressed that I do not, however, consider it possible that such enquiries, even if they are not carried out in the framework of surveillance activities, will never be conducted without a valid misdemeanour or criminal procedure. In any case, in the future, the procedure is also a prerequisite for carrying out an operation, regardless of where that operation is to be carried out. Statistics show that it is precisely those actions that currently constitute the basic mass of surveillance activities (the ones I mentioned earlier), by converting such enquiries into a normal criminal procedure procedure, could be excluded from surveillance activities. This would, in turn, allow for a review of the compositions in the Penal Code in order to determine when and when there is justification for conducting surveillance procedures. This would significantly limit e.g. eavesdropping and discreet surveillance. I would like to stress once again that the working group is discussing this issue, but there are no final views here, rather an analysis is under way. Question 6: "Do you think it is normal that 97% of requests for tracking permits are accepted today? Please explain. " This ratio can be understood in many ways. Although the question does not specify what licences are meant, I assume that requests from the prosecutor's office are addressed to the court. According to the Ministry of Justice, this figure indicates that a court will only apply for authorisation if it is really necessary and justified. I would point out that this figure has not always been this, and there have also been refusals. The prosecutor's office has taken into account the grounds for refusal and has organised its work accordingly. At present, the courts have found in most cases that the request was necessary and justified. This confirms, however, that the prosecutor's office is doing good preliminary work to select the criminal cases in which you are going to apply for permission to carry out a surveillance activity. In comparison, one might ask what would be the opposite of the situation. In that case, you would probably either accuse the court of being overly strict or accuse the prosecutor's office of going to apply for a licence if it is not justified or necessary, doing so lightly. In summary, I can say that this figure shows precisely that a thorough preparatory work has been carried out in every criminal case and that if there is reason to believe that authorisation will be refused, it will not be applied for. Question 7: 'How do you comment on the conclusion of the European Court of Human Rights that an unusually high percentage of requests for surveillance demonstrates both the formal role of the courts in resolving applications and the violation of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms? " The courts are independent in the administration of justice in Estonia. They shall also be independent in granting and refusing to grant all kinds of authorisations within their respective fields of competence. According to the law, a number of conditions must be met in order to carry out a surveillance operation. One of them is the ultima ratio principle. According to this, surveillance activities are permitted where it is not possible to obtain evidence by other means, if this is not possible in due time or if the interests of criminal proceedings may be adversely affected. In any event, therefore, the collection of data must first be considered in another way, which is less detrimental to the rights of the person. Only if this is not possible will a tracking operation be allowed. Where the Court has jurisdiction to grant the authorization, it shall be for the Court to assess all the facts and to decide whether to grant or refuse the authorization. As regards the formal role of the courts, this certainly cannot be accepted. I have already told you in my reply to the previous question about the request made by the Public Prosecutor's Office to carry out surveillance activities. This will be preceded by a thorough preliminary work and if all the conditions laid down by law are fulfilled, the court will authorise the pursuit. Question 8: "How is the protection of a person's fundamental rights and procedural economy guaranteed in the event of arrest under the current law, which is generally allowed for up to six months? Are there any changes to be expected here? ' Under the current Code of Criminal Procedure, a person may normally be arrested for up to six months in pre-trial proceedings. I stress that this is the decision-making power given to the court. The court can assess the facts and decide accordingly. Despite the fact that the law allows arrest for up to six months, this does not mean that a person must always be arrested for a maximum period of time. When deciding on arrest, the court must state the reasons why the person is taken into custody, as well as the time limit for detention. However, even if the court rightly authorises the arrest of a person for up to six months, the law provides for additional legal guarantees. Namely, two months after the arrest, a person may request the court to check the merits of the arrest. If the court finds that there are grounds for holding the person in custody, a further application may be made after two months. I therefore believe that the law provides sufficient guarantees that the fundamental rights of persons are protected and that the deprivation of liberty of a person does not take place unduly. The ninth question: 'What do you assess the competence of the special committee of the Riigikogu in supervising surveillance activities? Please explain. ' Under both the current law and the new law, the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu has a broad supervisory competence. In addition to the periodic reports submitted by the surveillance authorities, they will also be able to monitor on their own initiative. To this end, they can request additional documents, interview officials, etc. However, it is up to the Riigikogu to decide on the more precise organisation of the work of the special committee. I therefore believe that the Special Committee has been given all the necessary powers by law to supervise. Question 10: How do you intend to comply with the point of the coalition agreement, which states: 'We guarantee effective supervision of the power authorities as described in the law'? What activities are planned or planned for this purpose? ' In order to comply with this point, the Ministry of Justice is in the process of carrying out an analysis of the regulation of security authorities, as well as an additional analysis of the regulation of surveillance activities for this purpose. The eleventh question: 'To whom and how do you intend to grant the coalition treaty right to carry out specific audits on secret funds? When can we expect regulation from the Justice Department? 'According to the Government of the Republic's Action Plan, the resolution of this issue is planned with amendments to the State Secret and classified foreign information Act, which is scheduled to be sent to the Riigikogu in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U12	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. You have questions. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U13	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Here's the question. I understand that you personally would still prefer the granting of permissions for any kind of surveillance to be in the hands of the court and only the court? The other part of the question is: as your politician and Minister of Justice, do you consider it a hallmark of a democratic state that fear of eavesdropping and all kinds of stalking has become a mass in society, even among the most common people? Even people who have no reason to be eavesdropped will take away the battery on their phone and complain to their friends that they feel they are being eavesdropped.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U14	Thank you. In answer to the first part of the question, I say yes, I think you got it right. At least as an idea, I am more in favour of the authorisation of surveillance activities by judges. But once again: as I have said since the beginning of my term of office, I am also in favour of the analyses preceding all such claims, decisions and drafts. The Ministry of Justice has a broad-based working group with experts, people with much longer and broader experience. They're doing the analysis. Once this analysis has been carried out, and if it is considered possible and justified, then, I think, a step forward is to get to the draft text and think through the organisation of the judiciary. That's definitely the practical side. So, yes, that's my conviction. About the other half of the question, I don't know. Maybe our circles are different. My people don't complain that they have to take the battery off the phone. On more modern phones, the battery is probably already built in to prevent it. They don't come off.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U15	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the maximum time limit for arrest, which is six months and which, unfortunately, is often implemented, namely that six months. Only after two months may an application be made for release from custody. Such a long detention, in my opinion, gives the impression of a bit of a shock spell; it is a prison without judgment. Allegedly, investigations will be carried out during the period of detention. Unfortunately, they are often limited to a suspected interrogation a few days before the end of the time limit for arrest. Do you think this situation is justified and inherent in the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U17	Thank you. It's very difficult to talk about it in general. It is also possible to arrest for a shorter period of time; this decision-making power has actually been given to the court. If you have a specific case or if you have a specific proposal, I'd be happy to read it, but that's not how I generally appreciate it. I don't think it's a problem right now, but if you think it is, I'll wait for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U18	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Do colleagues want to negotiate? I would like to ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U19	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! I deeply respect all the colleagues who signed this question, but I still feel that they do not fully understand how progressive it is when the prosecutor's office has the right to decide for itself and probably to draw conclusions. Think about how much bureaucracy there is in our country! For example, if a person wants to build something, he or she must go to the local government's construction department (or what its name is) and apply for a building permit. For God's sake, let him build it! He's not his enemy, he'll be fine. By the way, one audit carried out by the National Audit Office this year shows that more than 50% of new buildings have been completed without a building permit. This is a big and very progressive step. Why is bureaucracy needed if a water company intends to increase the price of water or if another company intends to increase tariffs? Why do we need the coordination of the Competition Authority? Why do we need all this shit? Let him raise it, he'll prove it to himself. There is too much bureaucracy in the country. You go to the store, you get the goods you want, and then you have to go to the cash register and pay for it. What do you need it for? You took and went about as the prosecutor's office itself authorises, conducts surveillance activities and takes a decision. So I'm in favour of progress. Perhaps the idea that an institution such as the court should be annulled will also be supported, so let the prosecutor's office decide for itself. Wouldn't that be right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U20	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U21	The next question is Olga Sõtnik, Vladimir Velmani, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi, Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnuhini, Valeri Korbi, Inara Luigase, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendievi, Tarmo Tamme and Rainer Vakra on 19 May. a request for information on the suspension of payments from the European Regional Development Fund. Mr Olga Sõtnik, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We filed an inquiry exactly four months ago. Our inquiry concerns the suspension of payments from the European Regional Development Fund. Hopefully something's happened to that time. I'll read our questions. The European Court of Auditors audited eight projects funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) in Estonia last November. Three projects were discovered during the audit, which could cover expenditure for which no funds were foreseen. Problems were also identified in Estonian procedures and working methods. On the basis of preliminary observations by the Court of Auditors, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Regional Policy has notified EAS of a temporary interruption of payments of EUR 30 million concerning actions under the European Regional Development Fund. Based on this information, we have three questions. As I said, since it has been four months, perhaps you can also give us some new information regarding the suspension of these payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U23	Thank you very much, Mr Olga Soldier. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U24	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable heirs! Members of the Riigikogu! Since much has changed since the question was made in this area, I will first give you information about what happened in the meantime. On 11 April, the European Commission temporarily cut off payments from the European Regional Fund to EAS. The reason for the interruption was the high error rate indicated by the European Court of Auditors in the preliminary report on the so-called DAS audit. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the EAS and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, sent explanations and clarifications to both the European Court of Auditors and the European Commission on possible ineligible expenditure identified, resulting in the recovery of payments on 8 August. On the basis of the explanations provided by Estonia, the European Court of Auditors confirmed that the observation concerning the maximum amount had not been made by EAS in breach of the Public Procurement Act and that expenditure was eligible. The European Court of Auditors therefore took this observation out of the audit report on the basis of which payments were cut off. This reduced the error rate of the projects audited to 0.35%, which is significantly below the level of 2,5% accepted by the European Commission. You had three questions. The first question: 'What changes have been made since the problems were identified in the EAS procedures? ' Despite the fact that certain things were dealt with in the mid-term audit report, perhaps not entirely, the management and control systems in place in EAS were strengthened and revised, procurement specialists were recruited, ex post verification of documents was strengthened, the possibility was created for all beneficiaries to submit procurement documents for ex-ante verification of EAS, a detailed procurement guide was drawn up for beneficiaries, and a number of additional staff trainings were organised. In the selection of the types of procedures for public procurement, the type of procedure will continue to be coordinated with the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance. The second question: 'The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) is the main instrument of regional policy and aims to reduce regional disparities. However, recent studies also show that socio-economic gaps between regions are widening. How to assess the effectiveness of this fund in terms of achieving its objective? ' With regard to the effectiveness of the European Regional Development Fund, the Fund has undoubtedly contributed to Estonia's better integration with the European community, significantly reducing Estonia's backwardness from other countries belonging to the European Union with higher income levels and regions. The resources of the Regional Fund have been invested in critical areas, taking into account Estonia's further socio-economic development, such as upgrading infrastructure, developing the export capacity of companies, innovation, modernising the education system. It is also worth highlighting the fact that funds invested in the Regional Development Fund have contributed significantly to promoting the development of smaller and larger centres of attraction in the country. The third question: 'Modern funding is currently being used to ensure a consistent transfer of grants to businesses. How much financial damage can the Estonian state suffer if the deficiencies cannot be rectified? ' Since the explanations and clarifications provided made the proportion of ineligible expenditure very low and the European Commission also found that the reinforcement of the EAS management and control systems is exemplary, the cut-off of payments was closed on 8 August. Payments made during the cut-off period from 11 April to 8 August for projects shall be submitted by the Ministry of Finance to the European Commission for normal payment. Thus, the Estonian state was not harmed by the interruption of payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U25	Thank you very much, Minister. A question from my colleague, Olga Stranger.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your answers. Please tell me whether it is now expected that, after this incident, the European Court of Auditors will monitor the activities of the EAS even more closely, and whether any follow-up can be expected in order to avoid such problems and concerns regarding the use of the Fund's funds in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U27	Thank you. It's hard to judge. The European Court of Auditors plans its activities independently. They'll know where they're channeling their resources. However, I would like to explain once again that this was not a special audit of Estonia or EAS, but an annual financial audit, which takes a sample of the various disbursements across Europe. Therefore, EAS was tested among other institutions in Estonia. Secondly, once again, the problem of suspension of payments arose on the basis of the working version of the audit report, to which European Commission officials had responded accordingly. Later, when the situation was clarified, the problem fell away. So there may have been an excessive amount of noise. Nevertheless, we can be content. This noise did, however, help us to draw attention to this problem, especially where there has been a great deal of criticism within Estonia, the bureaucratic procedures of the EAS, often time-consuming paperwork. I think it's taught me enough. We must, given that we are using European taxpayers' money very precisely to keep track, otherwise very unpleasant sanctions may follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U28	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U29	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, If I understand correctly, the projects are still suspended. Here's the question. Do these projects, which were approved last year, have to start from scratch in the future, or are they currently on break, only have to wait and future financing still has to be, which is only economically linked to the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U30	Thank you. You didn't get it right. On the basis of this 'opinion report', the European Commission officials presented a position on the basis of which payments were suspended, but no projects were suspended. Suspension of payments does not mean that the state or the EAS has not made any regular payments either. There were bridge financing agreements with the Ministry of Finance for this purpose. As this so-called suspension position has now been changed in the European Commission, payments have not been suspended either. This possible bridge financing did not directly harm us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U31	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U32	The next question is Lembit Kaljuvee, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Valeri Korbi, Deniss Borodichi, Lauri Laasi, Eldar Efendijev, Tarmo Tamme, Kalev Kallo, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Repsi on 30 May. a request for information on the construction of LNG terminal. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U33	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The inquiry concerns the construction of LNG terminal, which has been discussed for a long time in Estonia and elsewhere in the Baltics. The need for the construction of the LNG terminal certainly exists from the point of view of energy security, as LNG provides an additional source of supply and increases security of supply. A major obstacle to the completion of the LNG terminal is disputes about the Baltic State's terminal. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania each have their own advantages. In addition to rivalry between the Baltic States, different interest groups are interested in the location of LNG terminal and its operator in Estonia. They are also different wishes, whether to build this terminal in Muuga or Paldiski. This inquiry was submitted on 30 May, so almost four months ago. We want to know what the developments have been. There were six questions at the time, and they're also topical today, so I'm going to read them out. First. During the discussion of the Working Group on Electricity and Gas Markets in the framework of the Baltic Energy Market Interconnection Programme in spring, countries were asked to calculate more specifically the cost of different alternatives to LNG terminals. Have the analyses been carried out today and the results of the cost-benefit analysis? Second. The construction of the LNG terminal is also a prerequisite for the European Union's financial contribution to the project. What conditions do the Baltic States have to meet to ensure financial support from the European Union for the project? Three. The Estonian market is too small for the construction of the terminal and has therefore contributed primarily to the construction of Balticconnector, which would allow transporting LNG to Finland via pipeline. However, according to the Deputy Secretary-General of Energy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Finland has stated that they want to reduce the consumption of natural gas and are therefore not interested in the common gas system. What is the status of the Balticconnector project? Is this project even under discussion? Four. Financing from the European Union is important for the construction of LNG terminal in Estonia. This requires a quick decision on which Baltic State the LNG terminal comes into. In the absence of such a decision in the near future, the project can only be funded for the next budgetary period of the European Union. Lithuania has planned to build a small LNG terminal for its country in any case and with its own resources. Will the probability of Estonia losing LNG terminal increase every day that has been stretched? Five. In Estonia, several terminal builders are currently ready to invest in the terminal project, according to different estimates. How active is the interaction with the various potential terminal builders and what is the risk that their interest in the project will be lost if the project is stretched? Sixthly, we want to know what the impact of the construction of LNG terminal will have on Estonian consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U34	Thank you very much, Mr Kaljuvee. Minister, I would like to ask you to speak in your chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U35	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the question. The first question: 'In the discussion of the Working Group on Electricity and Gas Markets under the Baltic Energy Market Interconnection Programme in spring, the countries were given the task of calculating the costs of the various alternatives to LNG terminals proposed more specifically. Have the analyses been carried out today and the results of the cost-benefit analysis? In March 2011, OÜ Elering commissioned an international consultancy firm Pöyry Management Consulting to order a study on the development of the Estonian gas market. This study will be finalised in October, then presented to interested parties and made available to the public. The study also looks at the LNG terminal insofar as the establishment of an alternative supply chain affects the development of the gas market in the Baltic States and Finland. The background to the questioners is so much that this study is not the first. The gas market working group under the Baltic Energy Market Interconnection Programme has been working for almost two years. During this work, various studies have been carried out by both the European Commission and Member States and interested companies. The scope of the studies is very high. This particular study is hopefully much more specific, so that it is possible to make substantive decisions based on it. What can we say today about this study, which we will publish to the full in October? It can be said that we are no longer talking about a regional terminal as an option, but can also diversify gas supply with smaller terminals, so we can talk about a terminal in Estonia to cover local needs. It costs approximately EUR 125 million. The cost of the regional terminal, amounting to 2.5 billion cubic metres of gas per year, would amount to approximately EUR 375 million. Despite the fact that the regional terminal with its economies of scale is certainly more economical, the regional terminal must take into account significant investments in transnational connections, including Estonian-Finnish (if this project materialises), Estonian-Latvian and Latvian-Lithuania connections. We are now calculating EUR 37 million for infrastructure investments between Estonia and Latvia. I would point out that these figures are all extremely provisional, very estimates, but they still give us a certain indication that the project of both the local and regional gas terminal can be economically sensible. Similarly, Latvia and Lithuania have carried out analyses. Unfortunately, we do not yet have these studies at our disposal. We hope to get the details of Latvia and Lithuania's research in the near future. The next debate should take place in October, when the Gas Market Working Party will meet under the Baltic Energy Market Interconnection Programme, and a meeting should take place in November at the level of the Baltic Prime Ministers on the gas terminal agenda. In addition, we have initiated initiatives to set up business-to-business working groups. In the case of Estonia, we are talking above all about the private limited company Elering, in the case of Latvia, Latvenergo. It is also essential that, in addition to the political working group at ministerial level, there are inter-company working groups in three countries. The second question: 'The completion of the LNG terminal is also subject to financial support from the European Union for the project. What conditions do the Baltic States have to meet to ensure financial support from the European Union for the project? ' The European Commission's view has been that the Baltic States and Finland must agree among themselves where the future regional liquid gas terminal will be. However, this agreement would not mean that the European Union's financial support would be automatically guaranteed. The application for support is still a normal course of action in accordance with the terms and procedures of the support measures. Only then will the European Commission process the application. There is no separate money, or a line of money, in the European Union budget for such a project. Even if preparation could be brought to such a stage that it is possible to request money, it would be possible to redeploy the funds allocated to the Member States, which in fact seems to be an even more complicated procedure in order to reach an agreement. In other words, when we are talking about financial support from the European Union, we should rather bear in mind the next financial perspective. In the framework of the Baltic Energy Market Interconnection Plan, the countries in the region agreed at the beginning of the year which criteria the regional terminal should meet. These criteria were as follows: Firstly, the terminal must increase the security of gas supply by allowing new suppliers to enter the market. Secondly, all suppliers must have access to the network and to the terminal. Thirdly, compliance with all environmental requirements. Fourthly, compliance with technical and security requirements. Fifthly, the regional terminal must serve Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, as well as Finland when the Estonian-Finnish pipeline connection is completed. Sixthly, the terminal must comply with the European Union's regulation on security of gas supply. Looking at these criteria, we can say that the terminal coming to Latvia would not be defined as regional given the current infrastructure, as this would not significantly increase Estonia's security of supply. During winter, Estonia is equipped with the Inckalns gas storage facility in Latvia, with a single pipeline linking Estonia to Latvia. If there are technical failures or an accident with this pipe, there is no possibility of transporting gas supplied via the terminal to Estonia. Question 3: "What is the status of the Balticconnector project? Is this project even under discussion? ' The development of the Balticconnector project has so far been the responsibility of the gas company Gasum of Eesti Gaas and Finland. Despite reports from the press from time to time, there have been no serious steps taken by the company to develop the Community. The European Commission has confirmed that Balticconnector is a priority project on a European scale that could find financial support from the European Union budget. Connecting Finland with the Baltic countries would double the volume of the gas market in this region, which would benefit both gas suppliers and gas consumers. The bigger the market, the more interesting it is for gas sellers. The position of the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to which you referred in the preamble to the question, is also true. I have also raised this issue on several occasions with my Finnish colleague. Indeed, Finland's current position in shaping its energy strategy is rather a reduction in gas use and that is why there is a lack of interest in pipeline connections. At the same time, Finnish colleagues have confirmed that everything in the world can change, and if the project is interesting enough, nothing can ever be ruled out. Question 4: 'For the construction of the LNG terminal in Estonia, funding from the European Union is important. A quick decision is needed for this to happen. [- - -] Will the probability of Estonia losing LNG terminal increase with each day of delay? ' In order to establish a regional LNG terminal, an agreement between neighbours is indeed important. However, it should be noted that the location of the LNG terminal is not the only critical agreement. Equally important are, for example, the model of its financing in the common market area, the agreement on the joint use of the terminal, the following investments, for example, transnational connections, timetables, financing and so on. However, given the history and state of the project, I would not quite agree with the questioner's assessment, as if it were very quick and every day passing would make this project more unlikely. On the contrary, the more these studies are being carried out, the more we see possible developments in the wider gas economy, the more likely this project may become. Uneconomic decisions made quickly, only decisions based on subsidies may not materialise at all at the decisive stage. Our general approach is that we are moving evenly and smartly, we have a clear understanding of why we are doing this. At the same time, we must consider that we may not be able to achieve this completely for various reasons. Question 5: 'Estonia currently has various estimates of the terminal project ready to invest in several terminal builders. How active is the interaction with the various potential terminal builders and what is the risk that their interest in the project will be lost if the project is stretched? ' In order to be able to build LNG terminal in Estonia, we have dealt with preliminary studies on the project for the construction of LNG terminal. It has included a study of all three projects known to us: LNG Estonia and Vopak Muuga in the harbour and Balti Gaas on the Pakri peninsula. At the same time, it should be noted that for investors, the project will become much more serious once the Estonian state determines a number of outstanding legislative aspects. We have developed amendments to the Natural Gas Act, which are in the coordination circle. The amendments provide for some important aspects of the LNG terminal, from its definition to the rules on the use and management of the terminal. I hope that the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act will enter into the proceedings of the Riigikogu in the near future and then we will be able to continue this discussion. However, as far as the interest of private investors is concerned, in principle, no one will deny any private investor a banner. Come on! We haven't made any obstacles. The problems with such an investment, as always, are elsewhere. Some might build their potential investment too much on hypothetical state guarantees for increasing gas consumption. Such guarantees will certainly never be provided by the State. I'm saying this here because investors take that into account. Question 6: "What is the impact of building the LNG terminal in Estonia for consumers? " The impact of the LNG terminal on consumers lies primarily in increasing security of supply both in technical terms and in economic terms, in particular in breaking the existing Gazprom monopoly. Another important aspect is the impact of LNG terminal on the price of natural gas in Estonia. It has been argued that Gazprom reduced the price of natural gas in Estonia and Latvia because of the start of the LNG terminal project alone. Thus, in a small part of the price effect of LNG the Estonian consumer has already received. Understandably, this claim cannot be verified. I believe that the question of price or the creation of a more competitive situation and, consequently, a more reasonable price for our consumer is, in fact, the main reason why we are dealing with this issue. Before I came here, I took out the current situation on the gas market. Since these numbers are relatively interesting, I thought I'd use them. We can see that if this terminal investment ever happens, the situation could be much more favourable to our gas consumers. This morning's situation in Western Europe was that the price of pipe gas (gas transported along the pipe) and the price of LNG on the spot market are equal. But the current price difference between Western Europe and Estonia, transferred from gas to energy capacity, is between three and seven euros per megawatt-hour. If we make such an artificial calculation so that the annual gas consumption in Estonia can be met at the current price in Western Europe, our gas consumers would win EUR 20.30 million. This is the money that the company that sells gas to Estonia is taking more from our gas customers than from Western Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U36	Because they are building new nuclear plants, which they consider more reasonable in the long term, above all the heat generated there will also be consumed. They therefore lack any incentive to increase the share of gas in their electricity and heat production. They also do not have an industry that needs separate gas. That's their starting point.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U37	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If this project, I mean the construction of the natural gas terminal, is it happening, does this mean that the door is completely closed to the Estonian gas consumer to obtain Russian gas?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U39	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U40	No, there's a short answer. As I said, we still want to create a real competitive situation. I emphasize the word'real'. Whatever investments and projects have been offered and offered, we must certainly ensure that conflicts of interest with competitors that have been active in the market are avoided throughout the gas chain. If this cannot be achieved, the potential investment, be it a private investment or in some part an investment with European money, is actually a bluff from a competitive point of view. That's the idea. There are, of course, many buts here. What do we need that gas for anyway? That's a million-dollar question. As you know, the volume of gas on the Estonian market has significantly decreased over the last five to seven years due to a monopoly, I would say, not because of a highly thought-out price strategy and is still decreasing. Why are they decreasing? Because it is quite clear that in the current economic conditions (probably even longer-term) it is worth transferring a certain number of gas heating plants to biomass heating. We have created a legal lever for this, we have adopted a law imposing price restrictions on monopolies, so that the Competition Authority has certain possibilities. I think it's a process. Gas consumption could certainly decrease further. When we are talking about a local terminal, we have to take into account that the terminal is a terminal, but that there must also be some market capacity in order for someone to work with a ship to come to a port in Estonia. However, certain reductions in gas consumption and other changes do not mean that we do not have to go through this issue thoroughly. As you can see from my answer, we're working on it. I believe that it will certainly take some time until the investment decision, whether it comes from a private company or in some other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U41	I have a little more specific question. When we talk about the volume of natural gas consumption, the current situation and the strategy for the future, how much of Estonia's needs is covered by this volume, is it 100% or less? Is there such a strategic view?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U42	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I heard from your speech that Finns are relatively cautious about the use of natural gas. Can you tell me what the reason is?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U44	Thank you. I referred to one number in the answer. This study, which will be completed in October, talks about the terminal to cover the local needs of Estonia. It is a terminal that can actually be built technologically and has a capacity of 0.2 to 0.5 billion cubic metres of gas per year. Today, Estonia's total consumption is in the order of 0.7 billion cubic metres of gas. So there is certainly no need for 100%, but textbook theory says that an alternative offer of 20 to 25% fulfils our main objective in order to create real price competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U45	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U46	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! We were told here that the terminal could come to Pakri peninsula or Muuga in Estonia. Does the Ministry of Economic Affairs have a preference, or is it not, or is it too early to talk about it today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U47	If you understand what I'm saying, you know I said life would change. As far as I'm concerned, the terminal can come anywhere if it pays off economically. Why don't the businessmen with the money on their backs already build Muuga, Pakri, Paldiski? We've got plenty of coastal areas. If built well, according to today's requirements, it is a relatively innocent project from an environmental point of view, of course, in quotes. We don't have a particular preference, it's a simple answer. But we can say that these projects are, in our opinion, of completely different quality, not mentioned by names. Certainly, these projects are also characterised by mutual mud-slapping, which I suggest you take a rather cold view of.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U48	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U49	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Last fall, I watched a TV show. I wouldn't say it was an entertainment show, rather political. It was shown on the television channel Orsent, and it was called "Ba-bah." Yeah, that's the title. Robert Anthropov, a former member of the Riigikogu, regularly appeared there. He is curious that he strangely unites the two coalition parties: he was once a reformer, then he was on the IRL list again. Pretty funny behavior. By the time this show took place, it was already known that Nord Stream would be built, that it would soon be completed, and that Estonia lost 1.5 to 2 billion kroons each year, because it refused Nord Stream, lost thousands of jobs and lost the opportunity to take part in a huge European project. The host asked Anthropov what he did in the Riigikogu when he began to rebel against this natural gas project and the result is such large losses in the state budget, job losses, etc. I was curious to hear what he would say to that question. The answer was, of course, unexpected, as always when Mr Anthropov said something. He said that is not all, Europe needs Russian gas so much that they will start to build another pipe, and then we will definitely take the pipe. I don't know what to say to that! It was simply an illustration that natural gas has always been quite sensitive. It is as if everything is clear: the project comes and is of direct benefit. Then someone will start a war that, of course, will end with nothing positive, but will lead to lost money and lost jobs. The costaars talked about how much it took to pay for the project to be torpedoed. Finnish and Swedish companies were also mentioned who would have been interested in this. But that's the way it's gonna stay. When it comes to billions, nobody cares. I decided to come here and talk at the last minute when I heard Mr. Minister's proposal to take a cold stance when another game of gas comes up. It would be good if this were to happen, because the external influences were, are and will remain, we should remember what Mr Parts said, and we should really take a cold stance, not get into hysterics or lose opportunities for the Estonian economy to benefit again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U50	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U51	The next question is Olga Sõtnik, Aadu Musta, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Reps, Kadri Simson, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Deniss Borodichi, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luigas, Eldar Efendijev and Rainer Vakra on 1 June. a request for information on the future of the domain reform. I'd like a speech chair with my colleague, Olga Soldier.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U52	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Our inquiry is entitled 'The future of the domain reform', but in fact, if you look at the questions, you can see that it deals with a lot of domain reform in general and the activities of the Estonian Internet Foundation during the first year of operation. In June, when we submitted this inquiry, the 2010 report of the Estonian Internet Foundation was published. On 5 July Estonia also passed the introduction of a new domain regime. This enquiry is more the result of the annual report, which shows that 88% of domain registrants have, however, registered only one domain name. Similarly, only 10% of all domain names have been registered by natural persons. In total, over 59000 domains have been registered under the new regime. The number of domains registered by natural persons thus remains below 6000. At the same time more than 12,000 websites had been registered under pri.ee. In 2010, the total income of the organisation was 13.2 million kroons and the costs of 7.9 million kroons, including a total of 761775 kroons paid to the two-member management of the Estonian Internet Foundation and compensation for using the personal vehicle for their duties of 152280 kroons. The total wage costs of the foundation in 2010 amounted to approximately EEK 3.5 million, representing 38.6% of the costs reported in the annual report. Based on these facts, we have four questions for you to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U53	Thank you very much, Mr Olga Soldier. Please speak with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U54	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer questions from the questioners. The first question: 'How high must the number of registered domains be in order to expect a reduction in the registration fee? ' Currently there are over 63000.ee domains in the register. Changes to the registration fee will be decided by the Foundation Board, taking into account the investments planned for the following years, operating costs and reserve, in order to ensure the independence of the operation of the Estonian Internet Foundation. The number of domains and the remuneration received for them is therefore one variable to be taken into account and the investments and operating costs are the other variable. The domain reform took place last year, but the related investments will remain in 2012 and 2013. The biggest investments relate to improving infrastructure security and security against cyber attacks. A total of EUR 715000 will be invested over two years. At present, it can be estimated that, despite significant investments, there will be a possibility to lower charges in the coming years. The second question: 'From 13 June everyone will be able to register dome names with dotted letters. [- - -] What is the real interest of companies in dotted domain names? Is it not once again a tool to force companies to register several domain names? ' Within four months, more than 900 bullet letters have been registered. e domain. I would stress that registration of domains containing spot letters is optional. It is up to each enterprise or natural person to decide whether or not to use domain names containing spot letters. The third question: 'Does the state consider it necessary that. that the subdomain would be attractive to natural persons? How would it be possible to differentiate between domain registration prices and domain dispute commission fees for natural and legal persons? ' The possibility of private registration of Level 3 domains was already taken into account in the domain reform planning. Era.ee is a very welcome phenomenon. I mention that private.ee is not the only one, is the planet.ee, net.ee. The difference between pri.ee and pri.ee is that it was a top-level domain that international rules did not allow to be maintained in this form. Definitely has to state. e domain attractiveness to natural persons is important. In deciding whether to differentiate charges for natural or legal persons, account must be taken of whether the preference of natural persons over charges for legal persons is justified or not, and of which preference of one is justified. Prior to the domain reform, the use of domains registered under the name of a legal person was widespread for the benefit of private individuals. I think it is right that a domain registrant should also be its actual user, and I do not wish to create any major differences in the conditions to which they are subject. Question 4: '2010. The profit of the Estonian Internet Foundation was about five million kroons in 2009. Is such profitability justified in the case of a foundation and is this and the following year planned to make a profit of the same magnitude? 'The term 'profit' mentioned in the text of the question is misleading. Foundations shall not make profits or pay any owner's income or dividends. The amount declared by the applicant in the annual report is the result of the accounting year, from which the development of new projects is financed and the reserve is formed. The most important of the new projects is the DNSSEC or The Domain Name System Security Extensions, i.e. a security application to sign domain names. . Websites, e-mail addresses and other services working on these domains are the main communication channels of Estonian public authorities, companies and natural persons for communication and communication to the public. The damage to and partial or total loss of the infrastructure of the Estonian Internet Foundation has a significant impact on the functioning of the state, including the work of the government sector and the security of the state. The cyber security strategy approved by the Government of the Republic on 8 May 2008 identifies the strengthening of domain name infrastructure as one of the five key objectives for the development and implementation of the security system. 14 countries have introduced DNSSEC from EU countries or have entered the final phase of this process. The domain in Estonia was a sector that had been underfunded for a long time, so it is necessary to move forward with new projects, because remaining in the last set of security applications means a significant security risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U55	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. A year or more has passed since the new domain regime came into force and the Estonian Internet Foundation started operating. How do you assess this whole process? Do you think we could do something different? Are you satisfied? What is your assessment of the one-year activity of this institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U57	Thank you. We've been discussing this with you in this hall. If we look at why we initiated this so-called domain reform, if we pursue these objectives, we will see that we have reached another qualitative level. However, I would point out that the domain reform has not yet been completed in this sense, that not all'redelegations' in ICANN, the United States organisation that controls, is responsible for and organises the global management of the Internet, have yet to take place. In this sense, this reform has not yet been completed. However, looking at the situation we were in (the registration of the domain names was opaque, natural persons were not actually able to obtain their domain name, legal persons were allowed only one domain name, and all these stupid restrictions led to the search for a way around them and the emergence of a parallel world, which was unusual, given Estonia's current practice in organising comparable things), I must say that in this regard we have, in my opinion, made a significant change. Yeah, there's been public support here, I wouldn't dare say that there's a lot of criticism, but there's a lot of criticism. From the Minister's point of view, criticism has been useful rather than harmful. I am grateful to those who have taken the trouble to be such social falcons and have kept this matter under consideration. I believe that cooperation could continue. More, of course, would like constructive criticism. At times, before the elections, there was a moaning here, and today it seems to be over. At the same time, we realise that Internet governance is developing very quickly. We've been trying to catch up with things we haven't done for years. Let's hope we move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U58	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U59	The next question is Olga Sõtnik, Deniss Borodichi, Yana Toomi, Kadri Simson, Viktor Vassilyev, Lauri Laas and Mikhail Stalnukhini, members of the Riigikogu, on 16 May s. a request for information on unemployment insurance and sickness benefits. Once again, I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Olga Stranger, to speak to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U60	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Social Affairs! On 16 May, we submitted to you an inquiry into unemployment insurance and sickness benefits. The Unemployment Insurance Act provides that the insured person is entitled to unemployment benefit and has at least 12 months of unemployment insurance during the 36 months preceding the date of registration. An insured person who has used maternity leave, adoption leave or parental leave during that period shall be extended for a period of 36 months, if the same period is not covered by unemployment insurance data in the unemployment insurance database. The amount of unemployment benefit is calculated on the basis of all the fees paid by the employer for which unemployment insurance has been paid. It therefore does not matter whether the employer pays the employee remuneration, holiday pay, bonus or additional cash benefits or benefits for the employees of the company. This situation puts parents who have been on parental leave in an unequal position and who have been paid a bonus or a bonus during parental leave by the employer of goodwill. As in the case of unemployment benefit, the amount of temporary incapacity benefit for the person returning from parental leave is calculated as the minimum wage and the number of the monthly wage set by the Government of the Republic in 30 divisions. This also puts the person who has returned from parental leave in a situation where the amount of the benefit does not take account of his actual salary but of the minimum wage established by the government. In relation to the above, we have three questions for you. We want answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U61	Thank you very much, Mr Olga Soldier. Minister of Social Affairs of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U62	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to respond to an inquiry into unemployment insurance and sickness benefits. Question 1: "How should the Unemployment Insurance Act be made fairer to a person on parental leave, so that the unemployment benefit is paid on an earlier salary rather than on the basis of individual payments made during the leave? 'The purpose of unemployment benefit is to balance the income of the person and the consumption needs of the person during the period of unemployment, while at the same time encouraging active job search and rapid reintegration into the labour market. The calculation of unemployment benefit is based on data from the unemployment insurance database based on unemployment insurance contributions withheld by the employer. On the basis of the payments made, the person's unemployment insurance period is calculated and the amount of the person's unemployment benefit is calculated. In doing so, the employer is obliged to declare and pay unemployment insurance contributions on wages. The employer cannot choose whether or not to pay unemployment insurance contributions on which salary. All payments paid shall be included in the calculation of the compensation. The Unemployment Insurance Fund does not make or can make any choice as to whether or not to include or exclude payments in the calculation of the amount of benefit. Until 1 July 2009, the period of parental leave or maternity leave was also taken into account when determining entitlement to unemployment benefit, although no remuneration was paid to the parents for that period and therefore unemployment insurance contributions were not withheld during that period. This led to a situation where these parents were deprived of their entitlement to unemployment benefit because they did not have at least 12 months of unemployment insurance for the 36 months prior to registration, i.e. three years of unemployment insurance. As of July 2009, the 36-month period of these persons shall be extended by the period of leave if the same period is not covered by the unemployment insurance database. This means that when raising a child of up to three years, all the months during which the person was employed, regardless of the remuneration paid to him at that time, are taken into account when determining entitlement to benefits. The position of the Ministry is that if the parent receives a salary during parental leave, it is not fair to disregard unemployment insurance contributions on this salary. Giving individuals the option of choosing which payments will result in their unemployment benefit, will lead to the breakdown and unsustainable nature of the whole system. The second question: 'Why is there a person on parental leave, distinguished by the Health Insurance Act, and to what extent is this unequal situation justified? ' Temporary incapacity benefit, including sickness benefit, care allowance, maternity benefit, adoption benefit, is the financial compensation paid by the sickness insurance fund on the basis of the incapacity sheet to work to an insured person who is liable for personalised social tax for loss of income due to a temporary exemption from his or her duties or from his or her economic or professional activities. The amount of temporary incapacity benefit depends on the income earned by the beneficiary in the calendar year preceding the year in which the benefit is received, calculated on the basis of the data collected by the Tax and Customs Board on behalf of the person or supporting the payment of social security contributions. The average income on the calendar day of the benefit shall be equal to the income and number of 365 divisions calculated on the basis of the social tax calculated on the insured person's account or paid in the calendar year preceding the date on which the exemption from the work indicated on the incapacity certificate begins. In the first year of employment, mothers who come from parental leave receive compensation on the basis of the monthly rate of social tax laid down in § 21 of the Social Tax Act, which is established for each financial year by the state budget, the monthly rate may not be less than the minimum rate of remuneration established by the Government of the Republic in force in the year preceding the financial year. Since the acquisition of a health insurance status is conditional on contributions in the form of social tax payments, but the parent who is raised a child has no chance of working and earning income, the state has committed itself to paying social tax for one of the three-year-olds who are not working in Estonia. This ensures that the parent who is not working for a child continues to receive health insurance even during the period of the upbringing of a child, which allows both health care and medical benefits and, if special conditions are met, dental and supplementary medical benefits, but not temporary incapacity benefits, as the person who does not earn income cannot receive loss of income due to the illness. Since, in the calendar year preceding entry into employment, which is the basis for calculating temporary incapacity for work, the State pays social security contributions for the parent of the young child at the rate laid down in the Social Tax Act, the parent of the young child is indeed paid temporary incapacity benefits on the basis of the same rate during the first year of employment. Question 3: 'When are you planning amendments to the Act on Unemployment Insurance and Health Insurance that will improve the situation of the person who has returned from parental leave? " The answer is quite short. At the moment, as a result of the above description, we do not intend to change the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U63	Thank you very much. Please, the first question from my colleague Olga the Stranger!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We have already spoken to you about this issue once in this Chamber in connection with a particular case. Actually, there's been a lot of these cases. Again, we delegates and the Centre Party have been approached with concern that people will be laid off after parental leave and rely on proper unemployment insurance benefits, but as the employer has paid them school leave allowance or something else, this amount will immediately decrease. What do you think would be a reasonable solution? If you do not want to change the law, to dismantle this system, then perhaps you should be informed, either by parents or rather by employers, who are willing to pay bonuses or benefits, and so, in fact, after that, make the situation of these people worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U65	Thanks for the clarification. We have chosen the principle of insurance in Estonia, which is precisely whether you are insured or not. One of the important prerequisites for insurance is whether or not you are paid for. If an employer makes some kind of payment to a person, whatever it is, then the employer and the employee must naturally take into account that this is money received into a person's account, on which all taxes are paid, and that is precisely what is treated as income or not. If there are special cases, it would certainly be reasonable for an employer who is more familiar with the laws in force to try to protect his or her employees in such cases, especially when we talk, as you have pointed out, about the time of taking care of a small child or taking parental leave. I believe that good people are also looking at this questioning and are getting a little smarter again. We rely on our insurance system, both health insurance and unemployment insurance, whether or not a person is insured, whether or not a person is covered by social or unemployment insurance. If a person has no income or is on parental leave, that obligation is taken over by the State. The state does not leave a person without insurance in this regard. But it's definitely important to be informed. If you are approached, be sure to give them this information so that people's information field is improved and we can talk about the fact that both employers and employees are aware of their rights and our insurance mechanism works well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U66	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U67	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, Helmen Küti, Karel Rüütli, Andres Anvelt, Jaan Õunapuu, Kajar Lemberi, Urve Palo and Peeter Kreitzberg on 16 May in the s. a request for information on the organisation of care. Mr Heljo Pikhofi, member of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U68	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On 16 May, on behalf of eight members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I gave an inquiry from the same Riigikogu Speaker's Office to the Minister of Social Affairs. Our inquiry concerns the organisation of care treatment. I will briefly remind those in the hall of the content of the question. Inevitably, a person's life course comes at some point when he needs both treatment and care. At the level of the Government of the Republic, it has been recognised that the separation of health and welfare systems in Estonia has led to a situation where people find it difficult to meet the needs of their health or social situation. In order to solve this problem, the "Estonian Maintenance Network Development Plan 2004" has been approved. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip said in the Riigikogu Question Hour on 11 May 2011 that the development plan for the care network has been completed and the figures tell us about it, that the number of beds for care care care and the amount of resources spent on care treatment have increased very quickly in recent years and that he wants to believe that the quality of our care treatment is now considerably better than it was years ago. The assessment of the Estonian Patients' Representation Association, drawn up on the basis of complaints received by the Association, differs significantly from that of the Prime Minister, especially as regards the quality of services. On the basis of the above, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Social Affairs under § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to which we expect appropriate answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U69	Thank you very much, Mr Pikhof. Minister of Social Affairs of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U70	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! There are so many questions, I hope I can fit in the time frames. But let's start over. The first question consists of four questions: have the objectives been achieved, has the share of health insurance been reduced to 35%, has the number of beds been at least 1800, is home nursing care working and daily nursing care working? The development plan for the care network for the years 2004-2015 set the following targets for 2010: the share of health insurance in paying for care is reduced to 35%, own contribution to 16%, the municipality's share is 49% of the cost of the day of treatment, the number of beds for care care is at least 1800, the number of home nursing care visits is 250000 and the daily nursing care is working. According to the information specified by the Health Board (these are August data), 49 nursing licences have been issued in Estonia and the care service is provided at a total of 1734 beds. The 1557 beds mentioned by the Prime Minister are those used at that time, i.e. the number of beds authorised is higher than the number of beds used at that time. If we take the target of 1,800 beds by 2010, we can say with a small concussion that this objective has been achieved, i.e. we have almost achieved the planned volume of care treatment with 1734 beds. Increasing the funding of care in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has also been one of the priorities. It should be noted that between 2005 and 2010, the amount of care funding in the Health Insurance Fund increased by 100%, while the volume of funding for specialist medical care (just as a comparison) increased by 65%. Looking at the share of care care in the total health care population, it increased from 2.2% to 2.8% between 2005 and 2010. Looking to the future, according to the forecast made by the Health Insurance Fund for 2012 to 2015, we have planned a 10% increase in care costs every year. This increase is four to five times faster than in other treatments. According to the maintenance network development plan, the own contribution of 15% had to be implemented as early as 2006. All of us know that this has been said many times in this Chamber. In 2007, the share of health insurance was planned to be reduced to 65% in the institution, plus the share of municipalities. Unfortunately, the municipalities have not come along with this. People have been very good. As of 1 January 2010, 15% own contribution to care treatment applied. Unfortunately, I have to admit that municipalities are not making a significant contribution here, with a few small exceptions. It must certainly be said that what was planned in the development plan, in particular the reduction in funding from health insurance, has not been achieved at the desired rate. If you come to home nursing, 81 service providers provide home nursing services in Estonia on the basis of licenses issued by the Health Board. Of these, 74 have a contract with the health insurance fund to provide the service. If you look at the number of home care visits (I said there could be 250,000 visits per year), 258000 visits were made in home care as early as 2008. This objective, which was set for 2010, was already achieved in 2008. Similarly, the Health Insurance Fund has increased the volume of financing for home care. Speaking of figures, the financing of home care has increased considerably more than for fixed services: 1.8 times for fixed services and 3.19 times for home care. The difference is still significant. As far as daily nursing care is concerned, it is good to say that in cooperation with the Association of Estonian Nurses there are relevant drafts in the work. Of course, it has to be admitted that in practice daily nursing care is already provided under different names in the care institutions, but along with the sister association we are moving in the direction that legislative changes can also be recorded. The second question: 'Do you consider it possible to complete the task of meeting the need for a place by 2015? ' You also ask about geriatrics and what the current level of care hospitals and nursing homes is. I have to admit that I am quite optimistic about meeting the target set in the care network, i.e. 10 care beds and 20 care beds per thousand inhabitants aged 65 or over. To this end, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) finances the health measure "Development of service infrastructure for nursing and care', the total amount of which is known to be more than EUR 27 million, i.e. last year, when the grants were paid out, it was EEK 431200000. The measure will support investment by service providers with inpatient authorisation for care. Currently, these investments are going quite well, some procurements are ready, for example in Räpina and Kuressaare. Some procurements have become more expensive, but procurement operators are looking for solutions to move forward, whether they are borrowing or looking for other options. In particular, it concerns Rakvere and Järvamaa, as well as others. The 21 projects will reconstruct and create a total of 1817 beds, of which 1428 are care beds. With 878 beds in addition to the existing 1734 beds, the target of the number of beds in the care development plan is met and even exceeded, i.e. we have more than 2300 beds in Estonia by 2015. Given the current developments in investment, this objective seems to be achieved. As of the end of 2010, there were 5,316 nursing homes in Estonia to provide care services, which clearly exceeds the target. There is no concern about care with places. That story was about places. We are more concerned here with home care and home care. As far as geriatrics are concerned, diagnostics and treatments are currently carried out in other active beds, mainly in beds for the treatment of internal diseases, and geriatric assessments are carried out on a specific service basis in beds for care. Thus, the activities assigned to the geriatric departments take place despite the absence of profile beds called geriatrics. We consider this fact and the continued improvement of the competences of health professionals in this area even more important than the formal existence of a department. It has been agreed with the Council of the University of Tartu that new residency programmes will be opened in September this year as well, in connection with which the five-year programme of internal diseases will also be able to acquire the secondary area of geriatrics. As far as I know, there's been a nice reception there. The third question concerns the number of beds for care care care in Tallinn and Harju County and the need for additional nurses. According to the licenses granted by the Health Board, there is the biggest shortage of care beds in Harjumaa and Tallinn, Tartu County and Tartu City, Saaremaa and Võrumaa. There are 5516 care homes, as I said, of which we know there are 505 in Tallinn and 329 in Harju County. As a whole, there are plenty of nursing homes. The needs of Tallinn and Harjumaa are covered by nursing homes located elsewhere in Estonia. According to the association of nurses, there were 248 nurses in Estonia who provided home nursing services as of last year. The company estimates that there could be an additional 25 to 30 nurses. I'm sure there's work to be done to get more nurses from home. The fourth question concerns health insurance costs for care treatment, which, according to you, decreased from EEK 237 million in 2009 to EEK 223 million in 2010. As we know, because of the general tax decline, we had a cap of 0.94 but, at the same time, the decrease was not as high as in other areas, and we were able to slightly mitigate it at the expense of reserves. As regards the latest data, the first half of 2011, when looking at the Health Insurance Board's material, it can be seen that care funding has already increased compared to the first half of 2010 and, looking at the forecast for the following year, it is showing a significant increase. The fifth question concerns direct financing. The issue of funding we actually went over to answer the first question. Since we are about to run out of time, I believe you will find the right data in the answer to the first question. The sixth question concerns quality. I want to stop at it for a while, even though time is running out. In general, we consider the quality of health services to be a set of characteristics that characterises compliance with established requirements, current knowledge, available resources, professional and professional requirements, and patient satisfaction and health needs. Quality as a whole can be divided into structural and process quality and quality of results. There are different ways to influence and control them. Structural quality as an essential prerequisite for achieving good quality is mostly defined by legislation. The provision of health services requires a licence issued by the Health Board to check the compliance of service providers with the established requirements. Ensuring the quality of the process, i.e. the requirements for the way in which the service is provided, is also an essential prerequisite for achieving good quality. This part of quality is also regulated by different legislation. We also have, as we know, an expert committee on the quality of health services. If a person feels that an error has been made in his or her treatment process, he or she has the right to contact the Expert Committee on Health Quality of Service and it will certainly assess the treatment provided. It is possible to monitor compliance with both structural and process quality requirements during supervision in those parts of the legislation, and by clarifying these requirements we can certainly influence this part of the quality. As far as the quality of the results is concerned, this is what we are trying to influence, in particular, by the guidelines for treatment. Different diagnostic and therapeutic techniques are provided in the treatment guidelines. In terms of quality, the patients' assessment of the quality of the treatment received is certainly the most important. There is, as I said, an expert committee on health quality. I would like to talk about quality for a long time, but the time will be just one minute away and there will be another question concerning the resolution of patients' complaints. This is where you should contact the Expert Committee on Health Quality. The requirements were established and amended by the Minister of Social Affairs in 2004. Just recently, we discussed the requirements with the Commission. We found it reasonable to involve a psychologist in the work of the Commission. These requirements have certainly been improved by the Commission itself. Good specialists from all disciplines are involved in the work of the Commission. I believe that the work of this committee can also be consulted on the Ministry's website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U71	Thank you very much, Minister. Now there are questions. First of all, my colleague, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U72	Thank you, Madam President. The OECD report pointed out that we have a so-called service-led system which often does not respond to human needs, but is adapted to existing services without asking what kind of help someone needs. This means that we do not move money with the person, but that the person is directed to where there is a service to be provided. Since the municipality is, on the one hand, the largest provider of care services, the owner of nursing homes, and, on the other hand, it assesses the needs of the person according to the criteria set by it, the municipality may be more interested in implementing the budget of its subsidiary than in the real needs of the person. How do you comment on this paragraph in the OECD report and what will be done to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U73	Thank you for drawing attention to this paragraph in the OECD report. I do not dare say that people are being sent to nursing homes who do not need this service. In municipalities, people are still very clearly directed to receiving nursing home services on a need-based basis. If a person has a need for this, but does not have a nursing home in his own municipality or neighboring municipality, he or she will be sent far away from home. If we take Tallinn as an example, the clients of the care home service in Tallinn live in Aa nursing home, Koeru nursing home and several other places in Estonia, as there is really a shortage of nursing homes in Tallinn. So I do not dare to say that Tallinn simply directs people to nursing homes in terms of budget allocation. I certainly don't believe that. Speaking of having money with a person, it must be said that it is certainly worth discussing more. At two o'clock today, we also had a meeting with Harju County Elder on how to get more money to go with a person, especially when it comes to tools. Well, there's different ideas. But we must certainly take into account that the fact that money comes with a person does not mean that money or a cheque is given to a person, but that it still means the virtual movement of money. The content of the service is important. The person must be directed according to what he or she needs, whether he or she needs help, home care, home care or inpatient care, even care or hospital care.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U74	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! In your reply, you probably used a table showing the number of planned care beds, nursing homes, day care visits and home visits during the 2004-2015 period. If you read the data like that, it really looks like it's planned. But you may not have taken into account the subtleties that most people in this Chamber do not know. Take home visits, for example. In addition to home visits, there are also day care visits. There's just as many of them planned, but that's an unfulfilled goal. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U76	The question was about day care. There have been considerably more home visits. The question now is where this day-care service will be provided. At the service provider's. There are certainly development perspectives here or, let's say, there is still room for the service provider to provide the service. But here's the important thing. At least I am in favour of the fact that if a person has any opportunity to be at home and receive this service as a home care service, that is, if the nursing service he needs is to be provided at home by a healthcare professional, then this should be done where possible. In this sense, the direction of the Health Insurance Fund to significantly increase home care is certainly correct. It is not necessary to transport a person to a service provider with a public transport vehicle or other vehicle, but the service provider comes to the person if necessary. If a person is already in need of active treatment, of course, the person will be taken or sent to the service provider himself or herself, he or she will be given active treatment and, if necessary, care treatment, other treatments and will be sent home to he or she to he or she to he or she to he or she to he or she to he or she. If you need additional home care, of course you can. Next, a softer form is when a person stays on home care, a slightly more difficult form is when he goes to a nursing home. So, yes, there could be more day-care, but I wouldn't worry too much, I'd rather be worried if the goal of the number of home visits had not been met.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U77	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U78	Good minister! As an experienced state official, you must have noticed an interesting thing about reading this program. In fact, the plan begins with the recognition that we do not have sufficient levels of care care due to the fragmentation of resources, there are different ways in which it is financed. But if you count the plan to the end, these instruments will remain just as fragmented. This is what happens when a plan is made during a government, the first end of it is written, and during another government it is adopted, the final part of it is done. A clear question: as a minister, do you agree to negotiate with local governments to combine public spending now, to ensure that all people in Estonia receive care treatment, regardless of whether they have a familiar family doctor, have more money or better social workers in their municipality, or have higher incomes for children, so that everyone can keep their old age calm? Are you ready to negotiate with the local governments to put these things together?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U79	Thank you for your question. Municipalities are still being negotiated. There was a round of negotiations today. It's like two parts. As far as care treatment is concerned, a good questioner knows very well that care treatment lasts 30 days and continues for up to 60 days. Then you have to find a solution to whether a person is going to receive home care, is in such a condition as to be able to cope with home care, or goes to a nursing home. There are more of these choices. But when it comes to financing care, I agree with a hundred percent that a solution needs to be found. At least in the current situation, it seems quite inevitable that we will not be able to achieve the goal set out in the development plan for care care, that municipalities will make a significant contribution to care care. The question now is how care and home care are combined. That's where the symbiosis of funding comes from. I hope that if care infrastructure resources are all successfully completed, successfully placed and care beds available, which will also lead to an increase in the number of beds in nursing homes, then the financing model will also be clear by then. Also, the fact that the health insurance fund contributes 10% more or five times faster a year than other types of treatment is not enough to cover a hundred percent of all care beds. Some sort of solution has to be found. I certainly do not see the possibility of putting more than the current 15% of this obligation on people. Similarly, it is highly unlikely that local governments could have the capacity to contribute to care care for people over the next few years, which would actually be very logical. In the development plan for care care care, the principles are written that care treatment is a very clear part of human care and that it is a so-called natural process. It is then care care care, nursing home service or so-called bed sharing, that when he needs treatment and when he needs home care, this difference is airtight. It makes sense to be clear here with the local governments. But, of course, the general position of the municipalities is known: if the state imposes an obligation, give it money. Although this obligation concerning care treatment was in fact already agreed in 2004. Unfortunately, the municipalities have not just come along here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U80	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! We have a hospital network development plan and a maintenance network development plan. Both ends in 2015. Has the Ministry undertaken a review of both of them and preparation of a new development plan and how the changes to the development plan of the hospital network may affect the development plan of the care network?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U82	Thank you. They have a direct impact. The transformation process is continuous. When we talk about the development plan for the care network and put in it the development plan for the hospital network, it is clear that if we bring the same European Regional Development Fund and the funds from it, for example, and if we add up to 431 million Estonian kroons or 27 million euros, we will still get a very large amount of money. If there is some infrastructure in place for this large amount of money, it is clear that it must also be financed for the provision of services to people. One thing we have been thinking about is whether hospitals receiving investment in a care network should, at least for some time, put a hospital network development plan on the same stick as hospitals. This is a very important step. We have discussed with the Chairman of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund how to ensure that when we have finished the house, there is also funding for the house and these beds. In this sense, it is vital that this change be carried out. As for other developments, in December 2009 we discussed with the members of the Riigikogu the possibilities for further developments in the hospital network and agreed on service bases that are in one hospital or another. It is clear that hospitals located in county centres, or current general hospitals, are more likely to be close to a person, with activities related to the care of a person. For this reason, the development plan for the care network also recorded that this money would be channelled to all counties. There are very clear connections.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U83	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Viktor Vassilyev to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U84	Madam President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, All the good people who read my performance after the verbatim! I cannot agree well with all the arguments put forward by the Minister on this very platform, for example, as regards home care and day care. At the moment when the number of services is calculated, yes, it is written that there were 250,000 visits, but within these 250,000 visits, the same proof of day has not taken place. This has not been the case because, in my opinion, five or six years in turn, applications are submitted to the Health Insurance Fund for the introduction of the service being processed for the year, some comments are made, rejected, re-submitted. That's how the ball moves here and there, but it's no use. The same is true of nursing beds. Care in beds should include a service such as nursing home. What's the difference? The difference is, right now, a person is being held in a care hospital for 30 days. Up to 60 days can be kept, but no more than 30 days can be kept by agreement, then a person will be sent somewhere else, either to his home or to a nursing home. But there are people who won't heal in 30 days. These are chronic sick, old people. Such customers would need a care hospital service that is limited in time. In the development plan for the care network, this service has been called nursing home because nursing care is provided, but for a person, this place is his last home. This service has not been implemented for ten years, although it has been described in detail, there are prices, funding schemes and requirements. It's all there, but there's no service. Speaking of geriatric specialty, I have to say that I think that Estonia is currently the only country in the European Union where the geriatric specialty is not such. It existed until 1996, but in 1996 it was formally pulled off the list of medical professions of the Ministry of Social Affairs. That specialty's been pulled down! It was decided that this was not necessary. Not only Europe, but the whole world needs this specialty, but we, although we are saying that the population is ageing, that young people are running away, that there are more and more elderly people, that is not necessary. Geriatric specialty doesn't mean an internal doctor, a surgeon, a psychiatrist, even a dentist learns it because of me. All of them, to some extent, study geriatrics, yes. There's geropharmacology, there's gerourology, anything. But the geriatric specialty is a completely independent medical profession. The fact that the Estonian Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics has been fighting for ten years to teach it as an extraterrestrial, forgive me, is a very, very urgent, tiny step. It's not a specialty, if that's not the case. The question now is that the Ministry of Social Affairs cannot create a new specialty if there is no residency, but the university cannot apply residency if there is no specialty. Shut the fuck up, open the fucking tail! I think somebody might wanna talk some sense into it. I think it could be the Minister of Social Affairs. That's how we've been waiting for ten years. As far as financing is concerned, I believe that already in 2000 or 2001 there were agreements between local governments and the Ministry of Social Affairs that could partly finance local government budgets, partly the Ministry of Social Affairs, and part of the person's own contribution. At the moment, it is true that people have done well and they pay. People are really good, they pay for electricity, they pay for excise duties. But what do they have to do about it? That's how they pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U85	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. Eiki Nestor, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! First of all, I'm not here on behalf of the heirs, I'm here on my own behalf, I didn't ask questions. This is very important within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure Act. I want to say one thing. You see, the whole development plan was once driven by the fact that we are doing this now: there are people here who need help, and now we are saying that we are treating him and that we are financing it here, but we are caring for him and we are financing it from another public source. If it happens now that we are no longer financing (the minister replied exactly that we are no longer treating him because these 30 days plus certain days have run out), then we will maintain him and finance it from another place. And on the contrary, a person may be cared for, but now suddenly needs treatment. The stupidity of this whole thing is that in real life, this old man needs both care and treatment, and there's no point in setting any boundaries between it, that now we're gonna take care of you, and now we're gonna treat you. He needs exactly the same care, a tender hand, medical advice, a pill, water, maintenance, the same way, there's no difference. Therefore, a development plan was launched at the time. This was not completed, as the next government apparently did not consider it possible to negotiate with the local authorities on this issue. The current minister said he'd talk to them. If he talks about it, we didn't find out. If you look at what is really happening, you will see that there may be a single hospital in Estonia that is not currently building a care department. Mostly everyone does it, maybe there's only a few lonely ones who don't. You go to a retirement home, and the head of the retirement home tells you honestly that he's had two sisters on the payroll a long time ago, and they don't get a penny from the health insurance fund, they don't have to. After all, there is no prospect of a contract with a health insurance fund in the nursing home because it is not a health care institution, it is a care establishment. From next year, he'll hire another person who'll be rehabilitating. In other words, this fragmentation has long been in the way of life. Real life forces both hospital drivers and nursing home managers to do something to enable people to get the services they need. The state and the public sector are unable to meet them. So this is big and serious. I hope that perhaps this debate here will give the Minister the courage to go through and deal with what people really need, so that we are not treated differently, we are caring for you, but we are treating you. In fact, we need both, and it therefore makes sense to take a systematic approach. There is a need to create a system, honourable MPs and the Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U87	Thank you very much, Mr Nestor. I would first like to ask my colleague in the chair, Heljo Pikhof, and then Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U88	Madam President! As has already been said here many times, the financing of our health and care system and the organisation of our services are separate. The point of contact is that people living in nursing homes also need medical help, and in hospital care, the person in need can stay 60 days straight, but mostly he still needs nursing care and nursing after that. The nursing homes are predominantly owned by municipalities. The share premium is already 65%, which means that two pensions are not enough to get a place in a nursing home either. That's one question our pensioners are nervous about, it'll take them to sleep at night. Here, under the big money, the dog is buried, at least one of them. This, as the biggest bottleneck, was also pointed out by the recent OECD report, which, indeed, looked at health care, including family doctors, and care care, nursing care and care together, as I think there should be, at least in the future. Greater coherence between the two areas is urgently needed already. When it comes to the relationship between Estonia's GDP and expenditure on health care and welfare, it is generally known that this percentage is lower for us in the European Union. But the poor quality of our care service is not just due to the lack of money. Today's opportunities are fragmented, cooperation is poor both between health and care systems and between municipalities. There is no common methodology for assessing the needs of the patient, i.e. the client. In municipalities, the choice and availability of services vary greatly, and everyone is jealous of their nails. In places where large nursing homes have been put into work, where one or another service is authorised and even a contract with the health insurance fund has been concluded, the development of home care may be stunted. Hence my question, to which the minister replied, but to which I expected a slightly different answer. Yet, we have come up with a clear understanding of what should be the care of the elderly. A person should be able to live in a home environment for as long as possible and it would be first-level services that provide support. When I listened to the Minister and his answers, I had the impression that there was still a long way to go. The trend towards home care has also been taken elsewhere in Europe, but in the middle 5% of the elderly would need beds. By the way, it will be much cheaper for both man and society financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U89	Thank you very much, Mr Pikhof. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs once again to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U90	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for having such a fruitful debate! You see, the difference between nursing home and nursing care is very small. Indeed, as Mr Nestor said, a person needs one and another, which is why these integrated services are very important. The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) funds are now distributed in such a way that, to a large extent, it finances care beds as well as nursing beds. Valga is a good example. Maybe one of you has been there. There's a nursing home on one floor, there's a nursing department on the second floor, and there's an active treatment out the door next door. A perfectly reasonable solution. As far as nursing homes and nursing care are concerned, yes, we are preparing a change that also allows the law to allow the nursing home to have a nurse if necessary. If we look at real practice, what do we see? We see that there are nursing homes that are relatively small, where the medical needs are covered by a family physician. We have nursing homes that are a little bigger, where the medical needs are covered by the nurse, and there are nursing homes that really may need a doctor, such as the Dog's nursing home, which is very large with its 200 clients. In this sense, medical care in a nursing home or, where appropriate, the provision of care in a care facility is very clearly thought out. Of course, it would be best for a person to be at home. If she needs active treatment, the nurse will not only give her a pill and give her one injection, but will be transported to a health care facility. If he is well enough, he may be in a nursing home, but he may also be at home and receive home nursing services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U91	Thank you very much, Minister. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U92	The next question is an inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Lauri Laas, Inara Luigase, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendijev, Kalle Laaneti, Tarmo Tamme, Jüri Ratas, Olga Sõtnik, Priit Toobali, Vladimir Velmani, Viktor Vassilyev and Esther Tuiksoo on 18 May this year. My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U93	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have an inquiry for the Minister. I don't think I'm going to read it in full because I'm looking at the watch. In short, the essence of this is that Estonia is a country where it is good to give birth to children, we know that we have parental benefit, which is paid for long periods and is a very good measure. But what if this parental benefit ends one day? Then one mother may discover that her bank account has only EUR 19 18 cents in child support. That is why our questions come to the Minister. The first question is this: 'How fair is your estimate of the amount of child benefit of EUR 19 and 18 cents, given the continuing price increase and the reduction in real wages? ' The second question: 'Prime Minister Andrus Ansip was already of the opinion in 2009 that the child benefit system should be made needs-based. A similar objective is reflected in the Coalition Agreement. Please indicate by which criteria do you divide children into beneficiaries of needs-based support and not those who need it? What kind of metrics do you intend to use to determine the different levels of support between children who should receive support on the basis of your criteria? " And the third question: " How do you assess a situation where child support is considered an income when calculating income support? If this requirement had been abolished, how do you think this would affect the number of beneficiaries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U94	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs to speak to you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U95	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Thank you so much for referring so nicely to the parental benefit. Parental benefit is indeed a very good measure that has contributed to the increase in birth rates in Estonia. I believe that the parental benefit measure will not be changed by any government of the Republic of Estonia according to its principles. Now to your questions. First, the amount of child benefit. I will, however, come back to your introduction, where you asked that if your mother had finished her child benefit, what would she have to do? It would be very reasonable for a person to return to the labour market at some point. And if he does it before the parental benefit ends, there's nothing wrong with it. When we look at different countries, women generally return to the labour market much earlier than the child turns one and a half years old. So there are certainly different options. But I'm coming up with child support now. It should not be forgotten that we have several types of family allowances. When we talk about child benefit, it is true that for the first and second children the amount of the allowance is EUR 19 and 18 cents, but for the third child and the next children the allowance is already EUR 57 and 54 cents, which is significantly higher. It must be borne in mind that child benefit is paid part of the cost of raising the child, I would emphasise once again: to cover part of the cost. As a result, it is certainly extremely difficult to say what would be the fair amount of child benefit. All of us would like it to be more than that. At the same time, we need to take into account the financial resources available to the state, the amounts that go from the state budget to other sectors. As a result, we can also plan to cover social expenditure. If you look at family benefits, there are nine species in total. Some time ago, when we went over to the euro, we even handed out a beautiful little informative leaflet to make it easier for people to understand how many euros something was supported and how to apply for them. I suggest you get acquainted with it in both languages, one way in Estonian, the other way in Russian, so you can see what kind of benefits we have. I would like to remind you that family allowances are paid cumulatively. If the child or family is entitled to several benefits, they are paid simultaneously. It is therefore not right to assess only the level of support for the first and second children when supporting families with children, and all family benefits must be assessed in combination. The second question asks what will happen in the future, in particular, to the need-based support system. When you read the coalition agreement, you will see that it states the objective of achieving a reasonable balance between universal and targeted subsidies. No one is talking about the direct abolition of universal subsidies. What we are saying very clearly is that those who need more help should receive more help, and those who need less help could pay more to those who need more help. A need-based approach is primarily aimed at targeting families at greater risk of poverty. Changes to the system require a thorough ex ante analysis, including cost-effectiveness analysis. We have planned that we will start the development next year of the concept of support and services for children and families, the so-called Green Paper, to develop a combined system of support for income. The preparation of the Green Paper is one of the objectives of the 2012/2020 development plan for children and families as well as of the government action programme. During the preparation of this Green Paper, we will try to analyse the system of existing family benefits and services, including assessing its effectiveness and, if necessary, making proposals to improve or amend the system. The third question concerns the relationship between income support and child benefit. It should be recalled that all family benefits, including social security benefits, are taken into account when calculating income support. Child benefit is a family income and is not paid in addition to income support. If this were to happen, this could lead to a situation where families with children are treated differently when granting income support than, for example, families of pensioners or families who are unable to work. It is known that income support is a means of alleviating poverty. It is paid when a person is unable to obtain sufficient means of subsistence for himself or for his or her family through work or other sources, including social security benefits such as pensions, parental benefits or family benefits, or sickness or unemployment benefits. The purpose of income support is to provide people with an income so high that they can cover the income limit after paying their housing costs. Definitely, income support is the "last safety net' and the subsistence limit is the same for all families. As a result, it has always been our view that child benefits and other family benefits are not excluded when calculating income support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U96	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. You have questions too. Mr Pikhof, first of all, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U97	Thank you, Madam President. In any case, until 2005 child benefit was also paid to beneficiaries of income support. Now, my question. In the light of the Human Development Report, it was pointed out that we have generous support for the birth of children, but not for raising children. And research shows that people primarily lack the country's material support, kindergarten places. When they plan children, they don't know if they can provide them with a decent childhood and provide them with a good education. As we know, many mothers and fathers go to live with their children and stay there. Haven't you thought maybe after a while it's too late to do something to support children?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U98	Thank you for your question. You referred to a research on R&D&I. I highly recommend that you read this study thoroughly. What's in the study? In this study, children aged 15 to 16 were asked whether you were going to bed on an empty stomach or whether you were going to school on an empty stomach in the morning. And the answers were never or sometimes. And sometimes the percentage of respondents had increased from 11 to 15. It's a subjective assessment of whether or not he or she sometimes goes to bed on an empty stomach. Does he appreciate it? When people ask me if I'm going to bed on an empty stomach, I also say that sometimes. Yes, I am. In this sense, one study, one percent, should not draw very fundamental conclusions. As far as the payment of income support is concerned, it is right, but it has increased, and the state has provided the means to do so. You know very well that in 2008 the total amount of income support was 90 million kroons, and in 2011 more than 250 million were planned for this purpose in the state budget. A lot more than that! And it is! And we will ensure that this income support is paid out. Of course, we have had a very severe recession, which has led to the loss of people's jobs and had an impact on the payment of income support. God's right, that's it! However, the state's ability to pay out income support during difficult times and to increase this amount, as well as to pay out other benefits, is very good. However, coming back to the necessary services and municipalities, I will say once again: the state can offer income support, the state can offer child support and other family benefits, but services are also needed there. There is also a need for warm food in kindergartens for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U99	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You were talking about regions. I'm talking about my region of Ida-Virumaa. It's understandable that we're talking about average numbers here, you also mentioned average percentages. But if you take Ida-Virumaa, you can understand that there are many, many more poor families, one in five children living in poverty. I am concerned that this is not just a problem this year or a couple of years, but has already developed a lifestyle to live in poverty. Such a way of life begins in many years of childhood, and it is quite worrying. If we hope to see our future in these people, in these children and in young people, the fulfillment of this hope is under very great question. Hence my question: if you are discussing Estonia's problems in general, do you consider that there are large differences between regions? For example, between Ida-Virumaa and other regions of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U101	We really collect statistics from all regions. As far as the differences between regions are concerned, they do exist. The different types of social support are equally different in the regions. When we talk about coping, Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia are very clearly distinguished: there has been a significant increase in income support. However, no income support was paid last year in the Ruhnu municipality, for example. Okay, there are very few people there, but still. There are differences between regions. With regard to whether living in poverty can become a lifestyle, I, on the other hand, direct my eyes to the municipalities where child protection workers work directly. You have the papers on your desk, check out the children's and families' development plan! We have discussed whether children's and families' advisory centres should be made in regions or county centres. We have proposed the creation of consultative centres for children and families in different regions, but information is needed from childguards. When children's guards give us the information we need, we can respond to it. Then it will be possible to discuss how we can help one family or another, or if for some reason a small child does not have a family and he has remained a street child, then he can be helped by an orphanage or a substitute home, as we now call it. That way, the child can still be prepared for the future life. There are opportunities, but if childguards or social workers do not draw attention to these problems and municipalities do not contribute to social protection, the story is bad. We can't just rely on the support of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U102	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that local authorities contribute differently to social life and social benefits, that there are local governments with an average grant of 300 kroons, and that there are also those where this figure is 3000 kroons. In fact, the municipalities cannot be compared at all! There are very strong local authorities with jobs where people have confidence in the future and can do very well, but there are municipalities where unemployment is high, where coping is very difficult and there is also a shortage of 3000 kroons. Against this background, could the Ministry of Social Affairs not consider setting up a reserve in order to allow local authorities to apply on an ad hoc basis to cover certain additional social costs? Payments would be differentiated and based on differences. It would be good if local governments had such a right.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U104	I would point out that social protection costs really do amount, as I said, from one extreme to another extreme, but there are 226 municipalities between them. And of this amount, income support has already been deducted, and within this amount there is no income support. So the differences are very large and they clearly still show that preferences are being made. Of course, the work base varies from one municipality to another, the existence of companies and entrepreneurship varies. Here it is worth thinking very seriously about whether it is reasonable to join suddenly in order to provide a better service to our people. The question is not whether I want my job in the municipality to be maintained as an official, or whether I work for another municipality. The question is whether all those who work in rural municipalities or cities work for local people in order to help them. If these costs are so different, this will show that the priorities of the local council chosen by the people themselves are set. I'd understand if we had only one municipality that bets a lot, and only one municipality that bets a little, but if I take the top 10 and the lowest ten, then the difference is times and that worries me.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U105	Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U106	All respondents respond exactly as they see fit. Let us now go to the negotiations, because the questions are closed. Thank you, Mr. Pevkur! And please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in your response to Yana Toom, you repeatedly stressed the importance you attach to the existence of municipal day-care facilities and warm food provided there. We also attach great importance to this, and our idea is that here the state could come to the aid of local governments. The state could help local governments and families find money to pay for day-care and day-care food. The Centre Party has submitted a draft to this effect, which passed the first reading in this Chamber, but for some reason is stuck somewhere. If you consider it so important, perhaps as a coalition politician, you will help to get this bill to this hall faster and we can process it and adopt it as a law. One problem would be less.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U108	Estonia has done quite a lot to support children. If we take the same parental benefit, it will still help the young family to cope quite nicely until the child is one and a half years old. When you come back to the same Human Development Report or to the OECD's writings, you rightly said not so precisely in the first half of the sentence, but in the second half of the sentence that people expect different studies, including studies carried out by the Ministry, in particular the availability of services, namely childcare facilities, day care facilities. This shows very clearly that, as the majority of the beneficiaries of parental benefits are women, the desire of women to return to the labour market is significant. And, of course, when you go back to work, you have to have a place to leave your child, and that is primarily a kindergarten place. This is a very serious place to think about local governments! It has indeed turned out from all studies that kindergarten is extremely important. And not only the kindergarten place, but also the other social services provided by municipalities must also be more. It's true! As far as the family benefit system is concerned, in my opinion, it makes perfect sense to go towards more targeted benefits. It is reasonable that those who need more help can do more, and at the expense of those who need less help, we can offer more to those who need more help. It makes perfect sense, it makes perfect sense. I very much hope that, if we set our goal this year for the development plan for children and families until 2020, next year we will start the drafting of the same Green Paper as the same one and that, within this framework, the various political forces will provide us with sufficient input so that we can provide the best possible future for Estonian families and Estonian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U109	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U110	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! It may sound a little paradoxical, but don't you think that with regard to children we should act a little bit faster, for the simple reason that childhood is the time when a person's future will be coded into it. Teachers claim that a child can no longer be converted when he is at least five and a half years old. And if he lives in poverty for the first five years of his life, if he eats porridge boiled with water, will he ever get over it? This may be a very emotional question, but look at the Tallinn City data! We will take August: 377 children of income support lived in August 2009, 825 children in 2010, 946 children this year. So this number is going to increase exponentially. As for the same development plan for the children and families you mentioned, it has not yet been adopted. But it has been worked out, and it has such an ambitious goal that 17.3% of our children are currently living in relative poverty, with 17% in 2020. Isn't that a little small?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U111	I'll give you a little more. You mentioned the city of Tallinn and started at all about whether it was too late. Once again, the most important thing is that municipalities provide the services they need for children. You were talking about the diet of children, as is known, it is possible for day-care centres to propose to the municipality that part of the children be exempted from paying food money. I've been chairman of the board of trustees myself, we made such decisions, yes and yes. In this sense, every municipality must think very seriously about the cost of its social protection. I have available data to answer one of the next questions, showing the proportion of social protection expenditure per municipality. What do I see in there? In 2010, there were municipalities in Estonia where the social protection cost per person was between 300 and 400 kroons, the last ten, the worst, and there were municipalities where the amount of social protection spent on a person was between 3000 and 4000 kroons. This shows the priorities of the municipality. If children are not provided with hot food in kindergartens or if they are generally even offered but are not exempted from paying a fee if necessary, then it is a bad thing. I don't think you're gonna be released if you still have a prayer, you're gonna get a chance. But this is the first thing: to provide the child with warm food in kindergarten, from there on to offer him warm food at school. Then the baby's in pretty good shape. As regards the state of families in general, yes, the state also provides additional income support, which we increased to 1200 kroons last year. These are the basic things that must be done: guaranteeing a warm meal for the child and, of course, aside from it, action of interest, as far as possible. Social workers in the municipality must take this seriously. Now that you are talking about relative poverty, the target of reaching 17% instead of 17.3% is completely consciously taken. After all, the assessment of relative poverty depends on many criteria. Objectively, this relative poverty rate of 15 to 17% is quite common in many countries. We are trying to keep the current situation and make it a little better so that in the future, we should not talk about the situation of children getting worse. That's why all these changes. If you take the social protection costs of local governments on the table and you could do so here in the Riigikogu, please see how much municipal expenses are. You're from different regions. How can it be that one municipality contributes 300.400 kroons to the human population and the other 3000.4000? In the latter case, investments have not yet been taken into account, if we also take into account investments, the costs of one municipality were 21000 kroons. This is an important sign that shows what priorities are on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U112	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U113	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is a pity that child poverty has not decreased in recent years, but, on the contrary, increased. According to the R&D&I study, the children who suffer from empty stomachs and cannot eat enough were 11,1% in 2006 and 15,7% in 2010, essentially 16%. Why is this going to get worse for us anyway? I would also like to give an example: in Narva, where we know that many companies went bankrupt due to the economic downturn and closed down, the payment of income support has increased by as much as 43% in the last three years. Why is this situation so depressing in Estonia? Why is poverty growing and we cannot stop it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U114	Thank you for your observation. Surely the Centre Party as a leading force in Tallinn knows very well that Tallinn is not among the top 10 who spend most on social protection per person. If we look at the example of Tallinn, we can really say that the municipality has a question of setting priorities: do we contribute to Tallinn Television or contribute to the construction of kindergartens? These are very clear priorities that can be chosen. For the money that the city of Tallinn has contributed to television, I do not know, I have read from somewhere that it is in the order of 50 million Estonian kroons, about two kindergartens can be built. Good luck with that! There is no need to ask the state, sometimes the municipality might look a little at the contents of its wallet and make the right choices to spend it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U115	Please, Priit Tobal, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U116	Mr President, would you draw the answer's attention to the question asked by the questioner and will you, as President of the sitting, monitor the answer to the question asked by the questioner?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U117	Madam President! I wasn't really gonna give a speech, but I'm gonna do it. I'm sorry. Maybe I'm getting a little too personal. The minister probably knows I have five children. I have experienced our child benefit system for 22 years and I therefore know that things in the Estonian country do not work in practice. There is no way in real life that one grant will be supplemented by another, etc. It's not like that! Woman always has a choice, whether she lives a decent life, makes a career, buys herself new boots, or, I don't know, goes on vacations, or gives birth and raises children. And that's not normal! The mother of every five children is not a member of the Riigikogu. I haven't always been that, either. I haven't always been the assistant mayor of Tallinn. Before that, I've been riding a rabbit, my kids have gone to sleep hungry, and so on. And I have dozens of families living in a similar situation in the community. I do not know why every time the ministers of the Republic of Estonia are tempted to talk about Tallinn Television when they see me. I am in contact with the Minister in the current situation, not with the Mayor of Tallinn, and my question was actually very simple: do you not think that this system was stuck years ago and that it should actually be your ministry's priority number 1. Every year, we have more poor children who either leave our country with their parents and supplement the Gastar lines in Finland or Germany, or they become less demanding citizens who have not seen a decent childhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U118	Thank you. Does the respondent wish to answer the questioner? Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U119	Thank you. I didn't plan on coming back here, but I did. I have no wish to talk about the city of Tallinn here. But if the question is raised as to whether or not someone will answer the question and why the state will not come to the aid, this is a very vivid example. With regard to setting priorities for the Ministry, I do not know why, at the time when the Centre Party also led the Ministry of Social Affairs, the issue of families with children was not dealt with very much. During my reign, the Department of Families with Children has been set up in the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have completed the development plan for families with children and offered opportunities to help Estonian young families better. We have also proposed that next year we will take up a Green Paper and start looking at the system of child and family benefits. So it's a very targeted and systematic activity, and it's clearly been prioritised since I went into that house. Yeah, kids and families are important to me, and don't tell me anyone's missed something! If anyone's missed something, let's look at the time of tens of years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U120	Thank you. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U121	We will proceed to the inquiry into the exodus of medical nurses submitted by members of the Riigikogu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Valeri Korb, Lauri Laas, Eldar Efendiev, Heimar Leng, Inara Luigas, Viktor Vasiliev, Tarmo Tamme, Rainer Vakra, Priit Toobali, Vladimir Velmani, Yana Toomi, Esther Tuiksoo and Mailis Repsi on 19 May 2011. Reply by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. But first Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U122	President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, This question was handed over at the beginning of May, and I will remind you a little bit. A few years ago, we predicted that in the coming years we would face a great exodus of nurses. That, unfortunately, has been the case. Today, so many of our sisters go abroad to work that we have become even a Nordic donor in this area. The nurses go to Finland, Sweden, Norway, Great Britain, and they go out more than we produce in a year. The reasons why they go there are clear to all of us. The problem has also been highlighted by the Health Insurance Fund and several international organisations, the OECD and many others. We are asking the Minister a number of questions here, but basically we want to know that since the Minister has been in office for a number of years, at least four, what he has done to solve this problem. How are we going to stop the nurses from leaving?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U123	Thank you. Please, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Let me be clear in the interests of the protocol: I am in office from 23 February 2009. It's not another four years. It's time to fly fast. But that's it. Good heirs have asked the first question: 'How do you assess the situation that more sisters leave Estonia today than the education system can train them? " Let it be made clear, and for the sake of the truth, that this is not the case. If you look at the data for the last few years, how many nurses have taken a certificate out of the Health Board, this is a prerequisite for working anywhere, then there have been a hundred in the last few years. Tallinn Health Care College and Tartu Health Care College receive 300 new nursing students a year. This year, 237 new nurses graduated from health education institutions. So this number is definitely much higher than the number of departures. As for how many sisters we need, the ratio between nurses and doctors could be about one to three. Currently, this relationship is one for two in Estonia: there are two nurses per doctor. If we look at the number of doctors admitted to the residency, which is now 120, and the number of students entering nursing education, which is 300, this ratio is more or less that already. So from the point of view of entering learning, we have moved in the right direction. As far as the nurses are concerned, surveys carried out by the Health Board have shown that about half of those who go abroad work part-time in Estonia. This hundred pieces of evidence that are taken out certainly doesn't show how much actually goes away. Of course, it is not a good sign that sisters are leaving Estonia, but it is also extremely difficult for them and other professionals in the same way, whether we are talking about bus drivers or builders, whoever they are, because we are in a single European family. One of the fundamental principles of the European Union is the free movement of labour. And the free movement of labour will undoubtedly lead to a situation where certain countries, especially those in the neighbourhood of higher standards of living, have significant emigration in the case of certain professionals, in particular doctors, as well as builders. Last week, I went to a former Soviet Union Free State in Azerbaijan, where the World Health Organisation held its annual meeting. I asked them how much their doctors and sisters would get paid, and it turned out that there were doctors and nurses and teachers on a stick. Now we could ask whether the Estonian teacher receives too little pay or if the Estonian doctor gets too much pay. But that's a rhetorical question, and let's keep it that way. Just so you know, the doctor's monthly salary is 400 euros there. The average salary of an Estonian doctor last year was over 25,000 kroons, the average salary of a nurse was over 13,000 kroons. Of course, they are not comparable to Finnish or Swedish salaries, but I dare say that, given Estonia's circumstances and the wages of other areas of life, they are not low wages either. The second question is why I, as Minister, have allowed such a situation to arise. As I said, the free movement of persons, the free movement of labour is a fundamental principle of the European Union and there will certainly be no retreat from it. Everyone has the right to move freely. What I have really tried to do as a minister is that I have tried to maintain and maintain the current funding of health care at a reasonable level, as far as possible. This has been very difficult in times of crisis. We have had to make some cuts, but we have managed to maintain the financing of health care in the broadest possible way. And I'm going to have a much calmer heart than I am when I'm going to meet this year. The health sector is currently forecast by the Ministry of Finance to be expected to generate tax revenue from an additional fund of approximately EUR 60 million next year. This is certainly reflected in the improved service of patients in more cases of treatment, as well as in the increased possibilities for hospital drivers to differentiate the incomes of both doctors and nurses. Other areas certainly expected such additional contributions from the state budget as well. Take, for example, the area of internal security or education. But yes, thanks to the hard-working hands of the Estonians, we will have a slightly better health care situation next year, and I hope it will get better and better, and the salaries of nurses and doctors will also rise. In fact, that is the answer to the third question. You are asking when wages will reach pre-crisis levels. Of course, it depends on the specific individuals of each hospital and on the decisions taken by the board of directors in the management of the hospital. For its part, the Health Insurance Board has been able to ensure that the price cut, which in 2009, the application coefficient of 0.94 will be abolished from the next year. The price coefficient will be 1.0 again next year. We are also planning to buy more treatment cases in excess of 2% to 3% and 10% in care, as I have already said. This will certainly give hospital leaders the opportunity to also change the principles of nurses' remuneration. The fourth question is: how real do you think it is that Estonian hospitals will be recruited from abroad in the coming years, whose skills and knowledge are familiar with Soviet medicine. What is the risk to the quality of health care? I certainly don't see any danger to quality here. The training of Estonian nurses meets the requirements of the European Union Directive on Professional Qualifications, and the current legislation also regulates which qualification conditions must be met by the training of nurses who come from outside the European Union and wish to start working here as a nurse. In order to decide whether a degree meets the requirements of Estonian nurse training, a nurse's curriculum coming from abroad will be assessed and, if there are differences in qualifications, the Health Board may, by law, require work experience or an aptitude test to be carried out. If someone wants to work as a nurse in Estonia as an alien from a foreign country, they are subject to the same quality and professional standards as Estonian sisters. So I do not believe that we should be afraid that some people from abroad want to come to work as our sister, whether it be Latvia, Lithuania or another country of the European Union, or also a country outside the EU. By the way, right there in Azerbaijan, we agreed that Tallinn University of Health and the corresponding high school in Azerbaijan will work together to exchange experiences. We could help them, for example, by allowing young people who learn to be sisters to come to Estonia for an internship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U125	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-lauul, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U126	Thank you. Good minister! Did I get it right that you believe that there are no problems with the exodus of sisters in Estonia and that the President of the Union of Estonian Sisters and the whole association of sisters talk like nothing?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U127	Thank you for your question. No, you misunderstood. There are certainly problems with every area where people leave. If we recall the builders going away, there was a very clear setback in the construction market. And when people leave the healthcare sector, of course, that leaves a mark. In smaller hospitals, it leaves a bigger mark, a little smaller in larger hospitals. When family nurses leave the family doctor's practice, it leaves a very large mark on the practice of the family doctor. Of course it is. But I tried to tell you what we've done, what you asked me what we've done. We have done that as many young students as possible will be admitted to nursing education, that the best Estonian secondary school graduates will be admitted to medical education. Take a look at the threshold that the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu is going to take over 90. This is by far the highest. When a person decides to exercise his or her right to work in another country, it is extremely difficult to stop him or her. At the same time, we have some thoughts with the University of Tartu on the organisation of the residency, some thoughts on linking doctors to one hospital or another. Yeah, we'll discuss them, but they're all still a little rough to introduce you. However, as far as nurses are concerned, of course, it is our great desire that people who have taken up the nurse's profession also work as sisters rather than go to work in another area.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U128	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U129	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Leaving sisters does not just mean that those younger and more courageous will flee to Finland, Sweden, wherever they are. This also means that some retire; some, unfortunately, are also going to leave the other world. But there is another good group of people who are on the health care personnel's register at the expense of me as a doctor, by the way, but I'm not working as a doctor. Similarly, there are quite a number of people who are registered as sisters but do not work as sisters. Do you know how many such sisters there are and why they don't just sit here and run abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U130	Thank you for your question. We're looking at different data. I believe the good questioner will remember that even here in Question Time and earlier answers to questions I have read the bill from the Health Board database and the Institute for Health Development by calling through. Of course, these data differ. You don't practice as a doctor now, either, but you've got a doctor's invitation. I guess they're watching it. Similarly, we have very detailed information about the age of the staff, i.e. several nurses or doctors are reaching retirement age in one hospital or another. These statistics are all there. Well, we're gonna try to design a national training order. This is what has come from the same number of 300 young people admitted to nursing education at the Tallinn and Tartu universities of health care. It will be reviewed every year, and if it is found that this figure needs to be increased, then we will certainly be prepared to increase it as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U131	Thank you. There are no more questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U132	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, As regards the exodus of the builders, I have not asked the Minister of Social Affairs in this Chamber, but I have the feeling that whatever area we are asking about is the lack of family doctors or unemployment, the long waiting lists, we always get the answer, as if there is no problem. At the same time, we know that, for example, the question of long medical queues has now been taken up by the Health Insurance Fund itself and is analysing it in depth. For some reason, I think of a parallel now with Barack Obama, who said out loud to understand, people, we have very high unemployment. It's a problem, and we'll try and get through this together, and we'll figure out what we can do. But we, like, never want to admit a problem. I would remind you that at the beginning of this year the health issue was discussed in this Chamber, and Professor Raul-Allan Kiivet highlighted the lack of nurses and care staff as one of the four major health problems. He considered it a major concern in addition to the problem of financing health care, expensive prices for prescription medicines and care treatments. So this is an extremely important question. Why is there still a shortage of nurses and auxiliary staff? Yeah, on the one hand, really sisters are leaving abroad. We have actually become a Nordic donor: we train and train, but since decent wages are not paid, people simply leave. The second problem is that we are still training too little. In the past, mostly young nurses went abroad, and now the parents go too. And that is what the president of the Sisters' Association is stressing: the parents and the more experienced are leaving. And I don't think they just want to go away, so-called adventures. I think the figures I mentioned here in my inquiry are correct, however, these are the data of the Health Board. And I repeat, last year, 201 nurses took out a certificate to work abroad. They didn't take it out just like that there are, as we know, very high state fees in the game and the proof is still taken in order to really leave. Why are they going? Of course, one reason is small wages, poor working conditions, overload. And leaving sisters is actually a much bigger problem than leaving doctors. Follow-up and care treatment even screams at the shortage of nurses and maintenance staff. If we go to a hospital or a nursing home, we'll see what's going on everywhere. In fact, we still train twice as many sisters as we need to keep this number. The question is, if there are few nurses, the doctor will have less time to deal with patients. This is a serious problem. The OECD has also highlighted the small proportion of Estonian sisters. If, for example, there are 18.9 nurses per 1000 inhabitants in Sweden, 15 in Finland, only 7.1 in Estonia. That's very little. The question is indeed very serious. It is estimated that in five to ten years, Estonian doctors will not leave here as low as due to the lack of nurses and carers. I think that if we do not somehow limit this emigration, of course, raising wages is one way to go and keep these salaries at least at the level they are! Then we'll soon start recruiting sisters from Russia. I don't know if it's bad or good, but it's clear that we don't really have a culture of work there, and the level of training is probably a lot different. I am sure that no one just wants to leave Estonia, especially at an old age. Sisters are simply forced to do so. If we had to live here, pay them a decent salary, we wouldn't be facing such a problem today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U133	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U134	Madam President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The exodus of nurses has very different causes. Yes, one is, of course, the nurses' salaries and wage agreements. This is a fight against windmills, because the whole health system is made up of private companies. As much as the master wants to pay his salary, that's what he'll pay. It's very, very difficult to agree with all the masters. It's also about financing health care. As the Minister has informed us, care costs are increased by 10% each year in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. Yeah, well, there's a price increase inside. The prices of services have mostly been set a few years ago, if not even before, pushing the service through the Health Insurance Fund will take quite a bit of time. In addition, before a contract is concluded between health care providers and the health insurance fund, the competition takes place and the price offer takes into account factors. Last year, one of the hospitals in Tallinn I don't remember, was it West-Tallinn Central Hospital or East-Tallinn Central Hospital was working with a factor of 0.97. But I also know of a specific case where a coefficient of 0.7 was proposed during the competition and a contract was signed with this coefficient of 0.7 by the Health Insurance Fund. I ask: where is the quality of such a service? Of course, there is no room for any decent pay for sisters. The nurses' salaries are very different. Indeed, there may be 13,000 kroons in one health care provider, but there are 6,000 in the other. And when we talk about no work for sisters, there is work for nurses! There are jobs for them, and yes, if we apply the development plan for the care network in full, if we build more of the two blocks that have not been built so far: one is a nursing home block with at least a thousand beds, and the other is daily nursing care. On the latter, the Minister said that he felt that home nursing was more rational and why then develop daily nursing care. But this service is included in the development plan and the Government of the Republic has approved the development plan. So it's a bad law and we don't comply with that law. But, well, that's that. When we talk about the training of nurses and whether the order of training is correlated with the movement of nurses here or there, it must be taken into account that some of the young people who are going to study as a nurse or a doctor really go on the idea that they will soon be getting lost abroad. There's a fog in London. Last year, the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu, I think, conducted an anonymous survey in the third year. An anonymous reply was asked who will stay in Estonia and who will not stay. 70% answered the question that they would definitely leave Estonia, while the remaining 30% doubted whether the survey was quite anonymous, and just in case they would remain. And now what's happening is that doctors are already imported from Ukraine. In Ida-Virumaa, such cases are known. They're not staying here for life, they're still looking at the rest of Europe. Blossom their exams, fix their papers, and move on. It's the same with sisters, by the way. If we agree with Ukraine, Azerbaijan, with whomever we are going to train sisters here, they too will leave here abroad. Of course, there is also a deep ethical crisis throughout our health care. There is no room left for ethics in our health care. And if, due to a lack of money, a health care professional cannot provide the service that is necessary for a sick person to watch over the pain and suffering of a sick person, he is depressed. And many leave Estonia also because our health care is depressing. It is what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U135	Thank you. Would the Minister like to speak? No, I don't. I will conclude the negotiations and this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U136	Let's go to the next question. Members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, Karel Rüütli, Kajar Lember, Kalev Kotkas, Andres Anvelt, Neeme Suur, Kalvi Tõud, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jaak Allik, Helmen Kütt, Urve Palo, Jaan Õunapuu and Rannar Vassiliev submitted an inquiry on the organisation of family medical services on 30 May 2011. I'm asking for the speaker, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U137	Madam President! Good fellows! On 30 May, on behalf of 13 members of the Social Democratic Party Group, I handed over an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur concerning the organisation of family medical services. Now, briefly, on the content. As we know, the audit carried out by the National Audit Office on 8 April 2011 found several significant shortcomings in the organisation of family medical care. Firstly, the availability of family medical care has deteriorated year after year, the number of patients who receive family doctor visits on the same day has decreased, and the number of patients who only get a visit on the third or fourth day has increased. In 78 municipalities there are villages from which you cannot visit a family doctor by means of public transport within one day. Family doctors do not go on everywhere and their numbers are falling even further. According to the decree of the Minister of Social Affairs, 837 lists of family doctors could be opened. In 2010, there were 803 lists of family doctors in Estonia. Even if, as a family doctor, all the lives of family doctors have shown that this is far from real, we will have less than 60 family doctors in 20 years' time, as 72% of current family doctors will reach retirement age. The lack of family doctors is particularly acute in many rural areas, as the system does not motivate family doctors to go to work in the country. The list of family doctors is generally smaller in rural areas than in the city, so their income base and service are scarcer. In addition, the family doctor usually works alone in the country, and it is very difficult to find a replacement for the time of training or holidays. Thus, it suffers from its qualifications and the risk of burnout is very high. On the other hand, the lists of many family doctors operating in the city have been expanded. The development plan for primary health care 2009-2015 provided for a reduction in the volume of the family doctor list compared to 2007. Contrary to the target set, the average size of the list has increased further from 1617 people to 1750 people at the beginning of 2011. The development plan already provides for the expansion of primary functions, including the availability of family medical care in off-duty periods, which should be supported by an increase in the proportion of independent nursing staff in order to reduce the burden on doctors somewhat. Of the nurses, there is an already screaming shortage of nurses in the Estonian health care sector. The ratio of nurses is well below the EU average. Tallinn and Tartu health universities together cannot release as many nurses a year as they leave us to work in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Great Britain and elsewhere. In 2010, 201 nurses from the Health Board took out documents to work abroad, while 150 new sisters received a nurse's diploma. If a single practice family physician has to do a sister's job, among other things, it may be enough to quit. According to the National Audit Office, at least as many family doctors are needed in Estonia as in 2010. Even if, after 2018, the reception would continue at the same level of the family doctor's residency, i.e. 30 places, which are not initially planned, this would not ensure sufficient growth for family doctors, not all starters will finish their residency, not all graduates will start working as family doctors or even in Estonia. Primary health infrastructure is in a poor state, with a third of the family medical centres in need of overhaul, and a second third in need of sanitation. It is very difficult for a young family doctor to start a new list from scratch. The initial investment to open the practice is large, the support of local authorities for family doctoral centres is small. Many acute problems are reflected in the development document of the development plan for primary health care, but it has been much slower than foreseen in the timetable, and this has been highlighted by the audit. A number of milestones set for 2010 have not been met, a number of targets for 2015 have become unrealistic. Thus, the efforts of the Ministry of Social Affairs have not been sufficient. In conclusion, we do not have family doctors, we do not have family nurses, we do not have the current primary medical staff are overburdened with work, we do not have enough growth, we do not have a material base. If the country does not take cardinal action, the family doctor system will not be sustainable in its current form.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U138	Thank you very much. You can ask your question later, now is the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U139	In view of the above, it is signed...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U140	Please, you can continue the negotiations. Thank you very much. Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! I'll pick up where Mrs. Pikhof left off. The first question you have asked: does the Ministry of Social Affairs intend to do something radically to train secondary growth? Since 2005, the Ministry has increased the national training order for family doctors, which is the highest in medical disciplines in proportion. Thus, 159 medical doctors have been admitted to the family medicine profession in 2004-2011 and 176 family doctors have graduated from 2006-2011. We estimate that on average 30 family doctors reach retirement age each year. Family doctors continue to provide health care after retirement age and do not leave the labour market. This is certainly an argument that we must take into account in the training of new residents. We have set ourselves the goal of placing an order for a new family doctor every year for the residency. This year, 29 new family medicine residents were admitted to the university, and in the summer, 22 family doctors graduated. In 2011 we also plan to review the optimal number of patients on the list of family doctors, and consequently the number of lists, family doctors and family nurses, taking into account the number of residents in Estonia and counties. One such draft is also ready, and I hope that it will reach Parliament's proceedings in the autumn season. Speaking of 2012, I am pleased that, at least now, the draft budget includes the launch of a pilot project for the replacement system for family doctors. I hope that it will also give family doctors and nurses the opportunity to rest more and more calmly and give them additional incentive to stay in Estonia and not leave here. Let's hope this replacement system works nicely. As far as the nurses' training order is concerned, as I replied to an earlier inquiry, the training order is 300 new sisters a year in Tallinn and Tartu. We also launched a one-year specialization in nurses. In 2011, 13 new nurses graduated and 21 students from this specialty were admitted. So on the part of the training order, as in one of the previous enquiries, things are relatively normal, you don't have to be ashamed. The question is how young people graduate and whether they stay in the health sector and in Estonia. The second question: how can doctors and nurses be motivated to come to work in primary medicine? As I said, next year we would like to offer a chance to find a replacement doctor with the support of the state. In addition, we would like to look at it, as we have agreed in the coalition agreement, that we are going to pay the start-up allowance for specialist doctors, and let us see if it can also be extended to the practice of family doctors. And certainly all the other accompanying measures, for example, within the next programming period, maybe we could channel resources of the same or similar order of magnitude to improve primary infrastructure through the current tools for improving care infrastructure. Some of the primary health centres, as you mentioned, need reconstruction so that they can be fixed. The third question concerns the receipt of the first level. On this point, I am pleased to say that, at least now, we have planned for the state budget next year almost EUR 7 million to help people without health insurance. This will certainly help to ensure inevitable help for people who do not have a family doctor. Hopefully, in future, there will be opportunities in the state budget to discuss how to provide general medical care for non-health insurance persons, in addition to the inevitable assistance. This is the subject of future debates. The fourth question concerns measures to ensure primary care in rural areas. When it comes to transport, it is certainly worth recalling that transport is a direct task for the municipality at local level, namely at local level. The county elders, who are today responsible for the organisation of primary care, should certainly work closely with local governments in granting the right to list and determining a service area in order to take into account the public transport opportunities to get as comfortable as possible to a family doctor. As an incentive to make rural areas more attractive to family doctors, the family doctor financing scheme already includes a premium and according to the 2010 Health Insurance Fund report, the so-called distance premium was paid to a total of more than 300000 euros last year to 187 Estonian family doctors. The amount of the supplement, to remind you, is EUR 90 if the registered family doctor's place of business is 20 or 40 km from the nearest hospital and EUR 257 if the registered family doctor's place of business is more than 40 km from the nearest hospital. As I mentioned once, by the end of the year, we plan to establish the criteria for starting a young doctor's allowance so that specialist doctors can really get outside large centres. Let's see if and how it can be extended to primary medicine. The fifth question concerns whether we too could not get a contract from the health insurance fund to replace a family doctor as a replacement doctor. As I said, we have a system of replacement doctors in preparation now, and at the end of this week we are discussing the first concept of how to get replacement family doctors within the house. But a general physician is certainly one of the very potential individuals who could temporarily replace a family doctor. Looking at today's situation, a young doctor who has completed basic education is still able to go to the family doctor's office as an assistant doctor. Let us recall that it was recently discussed in this Chamber, that there is an opportunity and that as an assistant doctor it is possible to replace a family doctor for up to three months. We are seriously considering coming to Parliament with an amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act, which would give family medicine residents the opportunity to replace family doctors for up to one year. With regard to the establishment of a list of doctors without the qualifications of a family doctor and the provision of a contract for the Health Insurance Fund, we do not support this principle for a very simple reason, it does not go hand in hand with improving the quality of health care and increasing the role of family doctors as gatekeepers. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund have not supported the lowering of the quality requirements of primary health care services in a way that only medical qualifications are sufficient to provide general medical care. That is why we do not want to give a separate agreement. Question 6: What are the reasons why the implementation of the first-level health plan has been hampered? As far as we know, it's not stuck. The activities planned in the first level development plan are well planned in the annual work plan, as foreseen by the development plan, and almost EUR 8 million have been planned for the implementation of the development plan every year between 2012 and 2015. Also, as I mentioned once, we have planned to apply for the European Union's structural funds in the 2014+ period for upgrading the infrastructure of family medicine centres. As regards the proposed legislative changes, in order to ensure that the organisation of family medical care, including the replacement of family doctors and the establishment of lists, the conduct of competitions, is of the same quality, we have prepared for the transfer of general medical care to the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, i.e. the Health Board. I am sure that this draft will be a serious debate in this Parliament, and I very much hope that Parliament will also support this draft. By 1 January 2013, the first-level organisation would then be centrally managed and we would be able to find quick solutions to the problems of family doctors in small areas as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U142	Thank you. Please ask a question, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U143	Thank you, Madam President. We used to talk about nursing care and nursing homes here. I give an example of Iru's nursing home, where there are over 360 wards, most of whom need healthcare every day, while it is included in the list of family doctors. Iru's nursing home doesn't have a contract with the health insurance fund. How is it possible for a family doctor and his sisters to care for the care of residents of such a large nursing home?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U144	Thank you. Very simply. As we know, the list of family doctors can also be significantly larger than three or four persons and, in 90% or more cases, it is now larger. We have analysed the size of the lists of family doctors, and we are most likely to come to Parliament, as I said in reply to the previous question, with an amendment to the legislation on the lists, so that it is easier to foresee, as far as the list of family doctors is concerned, both puking and other possibilities. I would certainly like this draft to find the support of Parliament. As far as Iru's nursing home is concerned, there are usually carers there, and usually when we talk about nursing home, a person needs side aid there, but he does not need permanent medical intervention. If he or she needed permanent medical intervention, he or she should already receive care or active treatment. Dr Vasilyev, who has worked in Iru's nursing home for a long time, can tell you how medical services are guaranteed there. But once again, as I said, we are coming to Parliament with a government bill on the right of nursing homes to take on a sister. However, it is clear that each person must have a family doctor, and surely these patients have a family doctor who serves them nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U145	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U146	Thank you. Dear Minister, I recall another topic with family doctors, which came up very much during the summer. This was a major war between the ministry and family doctors, where family doctors refused to formalise disability benefits documents. How did this battle end, what's the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U147	Thank you. Small battles always come in handy, they lead to life. In this sense, it goes well that, of course, as we expected, there are a number of issues and problems that need to be resolved, particularly those concerning the active health status of a person. That when a person comes to formalize a disability, the health information system may contain information about him, but it may not be the last. Piloting continues. Today we reviewed some of Pärnumaa's data has been added to the so-called test phase and parallel development of the IT system is taking place. So there's a lot of cooperation with the family doctors, and it looks like it's moving in the right direction. If all of this works now, we can use the same solution in other procedures for the assessment of a person's medical condition, such as the description of the medical condition of a professional.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U148	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U149	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! As we know, supervision of the activities of family doctors is divided into two. Names are supervised by the County Elder, health services are supervised by the Health Board. At the moment, negotiations are under way on whether or not to concentrate this whole block under the Health Board. Landlords think so and so, some agree, some disagree. But you mentioned a little while ago that the mayor is the one who knows how transport moves, so he knows where it's better to keep a list. Can it be concluded from this that your view is that the supervision of the estate may still be maintained?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U150	Thank you. When you listened carefully to my answer, I said that the county elder should work closely with the municipality. That's the law. That's what I had to say. As far as the future is concerned, of course, when Parliament approves the amendments to the Health Services Organisation Act and gives the Health Board the right to organise a primary health care system, there is a direct contact between the Health Board and the municipalities. Lists of family doctors should be established in terms of location where the person has the best access.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U151	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You rightly said that the county authorities must work more closely with the local authorities. Unfortunately, I, who live in rural areas, feel that rural governments and county authorities do not really know how the organisation of family medicine works in rural areas, because the problem that it is impossible to go to a family doctor in one day by means of public transport is getting worse. How do you think rural governments should turn to local governments and what is the role of the Ministry of Social Affairs here in order to better solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U153	Thank you for your question. As far as the organisation of public transport is concerned, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications is now going a little bit into the thematic circle. I am sure that if a person needs medical care and does not have a personal means of transport, he must still have the opportunity to visit a doctor in one day, be it at a family doctor's centre or in a general hospital. This can certainly not be allowed to happen to a doctor in one day using public transport from some parts of Estonia. In this respect, the regional public transport centres certainly have a very large place to think. In addition to the so-called "revenue- and cost-orientation," people's service needs must also be taken into account, and one need for services is undoubtedly that a doctor can visit a bus or other public transport. In this regard, it is only left to wish public transport operators common sense to watch it. For our part, we can do that if Parliament really approves that the first-level organisation comes to the Health Board, then we can make sure that the lists are kept as close as possible to the centres of attraction when we set up lists. If there are smaller rural municipalities, either the municipality must organise transport from its remote areas to the rural municipality centre where the family doctor is present, or it is possible to come from there on the basis of public transport. Not every door, or every bus to smoke, of course, that's clear, but in a reasonable distance, it has to be. And if a person already needs transport, of course, it must be the municipality that offers the opportunity to visit a doctor through home care or other social services.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U154	No further questions. Thank you, Hanno Pevkur! Please, Heljo Pikhof wishes to open negotiations!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U155	Madam President! Good fellows! I dare to express my deep concern about the availability of family medical care and I would like to point out that most of the solutions proposed so far by the Ministry of Social Affairs are formal rather than substantive. Bringing together the organisation of family medical care under the responsibility of the Health Board, finding the optimal size of the family doctor's list or introducing a standard that will serve the average list of two family nurses in the future, as can be seen from the responses of the Minister of Social Affairs to the audit of the National Audit Office, does not solve the matter if there are nowhere to take people. Nor are paper measures for the return of non-working nurses to the health sector, including the primary level, unless they are given the necessary motivation. The majority of the substantive solutions proposed by the Ministry obviously do not have such an effect as to solve the problems of family doctors identified in the audit of the National Audit Office of 8 April 2011. Maybe a few more words about Iru's nursing home. When I asked how a family doctor and his sister should cope with such a large number of people who are constantly in need of health care, I didn't mean that the family doctor only has care in Iru. And as it turned out here in the previous point, when we were talking about nursing care that a person can stay in a nursing hospital for a maximum of 60 days and he doesn't usually get well in that time. That there are 60 days and then there is a healthy no, mostly he needs to continue nursing and at least nursing care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U156	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. The Minister doesn't want a word. We will stop dealing with this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U157	We will go to the following tenth question: Members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Lauli, Valeri Korb, Deniss Borodichi, Peeter Võsa, Eldar Efendijev, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi and Vladimir Velman's inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur on 30 May 2011. Speaking chair Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Here really is another inquiry into care treatment, which is presented in the spring. Since this problem is so important, I don't think it's gonna hurt you. We point out here that according to a number of analyses, four or five times less maintenance services are offered in Estonia in international comparison. If we compare the Nordic level, the difference is about ten times. The World Health Organization, or WHO, has pointed out the same problem. From our point of view, this treatment makes it much more unattainable, however, a little while ago the person's own contribution to care: the person himself has to pay 15%, i.e. EUR 6 per bed day, so EUR 182 per month. That's why many people don't get care. Another important problem, which has been less discussed today, is quality. In the spring, this problem became very acute. The quality of the service provided in care centres is quite important and the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out this. So we are asking for answers to the questions asked in the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U159	Thank you. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U160	Good manager! Good heirs! I would like to make an unprecedented proposal to consider all the questions answered with the answers given to previous enquiries, but some observations, perhaps in addition to what has already been discussed. I would stress, then, that the draft law on the organisation of health services, which regulates the provision of nursing care services in general care homes in a more flexible manner than hitherto, improves the availability and quality of nursing care, is under preparation and hopefully goes to coordination in the near future and will then also reach Parliament. Then this issue could already be debated within the framework of the draft. Of course, when we talk about providing health care, it is also about meeting health care requirements in nursing homes. Caring homes would really have a number of new obligations, so we are talking not only about the right but also about the obligation. For example, healthcare providers are obliged to document all activities that accompany nursing activities, as well as the quality requirements and other provisions that accompany the provision of health care. We would like to clarify care treatment, i.e. with a new and more precise name, to highlight the content of independent inpatient nursing care and also to lay down requirements for service providers. The requirements for equipment and furnishings must certainly be improved, including, for example, the requirement that a nurse's summoning button be attached to each bed. The plan is to increase the demand for staff, depending on the number of beds. If you look at these changes, we have tried, in cooperation with the Estonian Nurse Association and the Association of Care Providers, to involve the service providers directly in their work in order to improve quality conditions and to provide people with better care care and home care. The first question was purely about quality. The second question was about quality assessment and control. In response to the first or second question, I think I was talking about what these different sets are and what it is worth paying attention to, what we can control, how much we can control the structure and how much the quality of the process. And certainly health care providers or nursing homes also have to take into account, as a care provider, that we have a law of debt. The Law of Obligations Act contains Chapter 41, which sets out the obligations of the health care provider and the patient separately. We tend to forget this often and talk about health care and the organisation of health services. Chapter 41 of the Law of Obligations Act is primarily about informing the patient, but also about the patient's obligations, there are requirements for obtaining the consent necessary for the provision of the service, i.e. when to seek the consent of the patient, the obligation to keep the secret of the health care provider and the responsibility of the health care provider. These are certainly aspects that are worth emphasising and remembering when it comes to quality. There are several quality checkers in the same way, but in the end the quality of health care is assessed by the patient to a very significant extent. We can look at this process and structure, but the patient is the one who subjectively says whether the service was helpful to him or not. The third question was the number of nursing beds. This was well addressed. The same number of 1557 was the number that are currently in use, and 1734 is the one that has been authorised by the Health Board as of August. If we add more beds to be built, then we certainly do not have a problem with the number of beds, but it is still a question of staffing, the adequacy of nurses and the financing of the service. The fourth question is once again the departure of nurses. I guess we can continue here the same story that we have been saying for a long time, and it is extremely important that we have to finance ourselves. I am very pleased that on 30 May, on the very same day that you wrote an inquiry, the Health Insurance Board decided that the price coefficient would disappear completely from next year. When we recall that last year we spoke that the country's financial position was not so good, and in the early spring of 2011, we said that it is very likely that the abolition of this coefficient will also be gradual, I now very much hope that the overall economic situation will still be an opportunity to lose the coefficient from 1 January 2012. This plus new treatments should really lead nurses and doctors to see the content of this price change in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U161	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U162	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! With fear, I heard you say a nurse's summoning button was placed next to every hospital bed. Those of us who have had elderly relatives in a nursing hospital know very well that patients are afraid of this button because there will be repression for this button, at best verbal. But that's it. Well, that actually shows the quality of the care hospital. But the question is, once there was an agreement with the country's parents, they realized that you could partially finance care because they could get more healthcare, which is funded by the health insurance fund, it's good for them. If this work had been continued, it would have worked. Why hasn't it been continued?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U163	Thank you. Don't be scared. The same alarm button has not been taken from the left corner of the ceiling, it is a proposal from the service providers, and I believe it is still correct in terms of quality. More like a false challenge than a way out. In this sense, I believe that the alarm knob requirement is justified in every way. As regards the way care care is financed, after the local governments' wallet started to get a little thinner, very clearly said or took the view that if the state imposes an obligation, money must also be given. It wasn't so rigidly held up in the past. I could, of course, ask in return that for which there is § 6 of the Local Government Organisation Act, which says that the local government solves all the issues of local life. We can debate this for a long time, but it is a fundamental dispute and I think there is much to be said about the priorities of the municipality. We have some municipalities here I have to give a good example of Tallinn, where the cost of care treatment is partly covered. If we had more such municipalities, the service provided by people would be significantly better.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U164	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U165	Thank you. Another emotional question. In the case of Haapsalu's fire, it turned out, unfortunately, that there was a patient chained to a bed, tied to it. Does the new requirements you described here include not doing this again? Maybe that was a requirement before. What is your position here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U166	Thank you. This requirement is, of course, still present; no one must be tied up anywhere, except in the case of a special care institution, if it is intended as a so-called containment measure. I'm sure you can't do that. The Chancellor of Justice has done a number of checks here. However, if we are talking about psychiatric clinics, for example, it is permissible to tie up there. So Haapsalu shouldn't have done this, but if you read the reasons or know the background, then the reason was that this young man was dangerous to himself and others because under certain conditions he didn't control himself. We can argue whether this was right, but it does not bring very much fundamental added value to our debates. But the fact is, it wasn't supposed to be done. As far as the new requirements are concerned, we are still talking about the so-called ordinary patient, the common customer. Special care customers are, of course, subject to significantly stricter requirements. This also applies to the service provider, the special care provider must meet much stricter requirements than regular care homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U167	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Social Affairs! In your answers, you have mentioned several times today that there is a good institution such as the local authority, that the local authority must set its priorities and that it would be good if there were a good thing at the top of these priorities, such as social welfare, and all that follows. If today the Minister of Education would provide us with answers here, he would certainly also say that it would be good if local authorities put education issues and solving them as their priorities. Do you not feel that you want local authorities to resolve all the issues that the Ministry has failed to address and that it is increasingly required in the context of reducing the financial resources of local governments' budgets? Aren't you wronging local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U169	Thank you. Doesn't it seem to you that all the municipalities want to put their responsibilities on the state? The Centre Party even issued a bill to help the state build kindergartens. As I said, we have a law on the organisation of local government, which has been in force as long ago, now I am indebted to the answer, perhaps since 1994 or even 1993. This § 6 has stood there since the beginning of time and according to it the local government is responsible for all local life issues. There are, by the way, two more paragraphs, on one side there are educational, social and other'soft' values, and on the other there are, to put it simply, pipes and valves. I certainly won't hurt the local governments. What I said was, what are the priorities? And to illustrate these priorities, I pointed out the factual situation in the various municipalities. There are municipalities where people are very much cared about, where people care very much about social coping. And there are municipalities where they do a little less. In this sense, there has certainly been no injustice. The municipality, by its very nature, has been brought into life to care for the person and to be close to the person, and in this respect these two main areas are the most important areas of education and social affairs. Well, culture too, we can take culture here, you have education, social and cultural. These are the fundamental values on which the municipality should rely. So I'm definitely not doing any wrong. When it comes to setting priorities for local governments, there must, of course, be a reasonable balance. However, the question of finding a reasonable balance is whether each municipality must have an upper secondary school, whether each municipality must have a nursing home. Perhaps it would be reasonable for municipalities to (a) either merge or (b) combine services. Again, I use my own personal example: as a young lawyer, I worked with 0.4 loads in the municipality, with 0.4 loads in the neighboring municipality, and with 0.2 loads in the next neighboring municipality. This one place was on three parishes, and there was no job for a full - time lawyer. That's how you plan your skinny wallet.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U170	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U171	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! A few months ago, the Auditor General agreed with me and my colleagues' comment on the fact that we are in a pretty messy position as to what is a local government and what is the task of the state. All the more so as local governments were brutally cut budgets. Clearly, a person must be cared for either way or in some way, but obviously there is a plan in your ministry too, or there is some kind of work going on, that if we finally split these responsibilities, what do you think should, in the ideal, remain with the local government and what should remain with the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U172	Thank you. Indeed, this scheme exists, it is a law amending the Social Welfare Act, which we have been trying to argue with the municipalities for more than a year. Unfortunately, we haven't reached the end result, I'm sorry, I'd really like to get there. There we say exactly in advance what the duties of the municipality should be in social welfare and what the responsibilities of the state will be. There is a bill, if you ask about the Cities Union, they certainly have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U173	Thank you. No further questions. Let's open the negotiations. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U174	Madam President! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your professionalism and patience. A very nice example of how a minister can answer more than militant ambassadors. But I would like to take another opportunity here and recall the things of the last millennium, about 11-12 years ago, when the development plan for the hospital network was being carried out. At the time, this caused panic in society and even more serious panic in the health care system, because when 76 hospitals were suddenly cut off on 15 hospitals or how many of them were marked there, panic was really hard. But there were two good ladies from the World Bank, one was Janet Hawkins, and the other was Anne Howe, and they suggested that you listen, if you pull the active treatment together by half, you will be freed up a lot of resources, direct them to the development of long-term care and care services. That's where the term "care treatment" came from. The development plan for the hospital network, which seemed so predatory at the time, acquired a completely different dimension and, together with the development plan for the care network, looked completely edible and even very positive. All the resources released by the liquidation of hospitals, the withdrawal of active treatment for five days, had to be channelled into the care network, not 10% per year, but much more. The Minister of Care Care Network Development Plan knows that I have a very warm attitude towards this development plan. For years, the Ministry of Social Affairs' website was a place of honor. As you opened the website, Lord God, the heart got warm, you were faced with several reasonable developments in the development plan of the care network. But then, in 2005 or 2006, he started disappearing somewhere back. I sometimes tried to look at this development plan, and I could find him, he was quite real. Now I didn't look for a couple of years. There was a lot of fun to do, but yesterday I decided to watch. It took me a while, and I couldn't find it on that website, but through the search engine, I found some PDF version and some pieces of this development plan were still somewhere. I don't know why he's so ashamed of himself, it's a pretty decent thing! But there are problems, and we've been talking about them. I'm not going to repeat all of this because there's no geriatric specialty, no day nursing, no geriatric bedtime. This is, in my opinion, a lack of organisation, since some functions are in the hands of the Health Insurance Fund and some are in the hands of the Ministry of Social Affairs, again with a large block of agreements with local governments. Someone needs to coordinate this work, maybe there isn't a person who's gonna be energetically picking this thing up and fixing it. Funding is, of course, a major concern; funding is a huge concern, as is the case with our entire health care system. I don't know where the money that was supposed to be released when the active treatment was pulled together is gone. Of course, at the time, it wasn't considered that the cost of the box would come back again; they would have to be paid for the money from the health insurance fund. And now we are talking about having to support NATO, we have to fight in Afghanistan, we have to support our brothers and sisters in Greece. In passing, I would say that I would not support the Greeks, on the contrary, let them impoverish, and then we will buy out some nursing homes and build ourselves something decent. But we all have dreams... Can I have another half-minute on five?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U175	Please, I'll give you half a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U176	Thank you. Who dreams of a new car and who houses, men maybe young women and women, on the contrary, older and smarter men. But one day, the time will come when we have to pull our dreams together a little bit. And if God gives us years of life, then each of us will be in a situation where he dreams of having pampers exchanged when trouble has come, but not once a day. I wish all of us a dream come true, and for them to come true, let us keep an eye on the development of care care. Good luck to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U177	Thank you very much. There are no further requests for negotiation. Let's stop answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U178	The next item is the free microphone. The wish for a free microphone is on Inara Luigas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't expect to have a hall full of members of the Riigikogu. Thank you, there are five of you here, so I won't tell an empty hall! I am speaking precisely because these thoughts would remain in the verbatim. These are thoughts that plague my heart and soul. I am concerned about certain things, and that is what I want to talk about. These are Riigikogu Question Time, Question Time and such a show as the People's Servants at Vikerraadio. I'd like to start with that show. On Saturday last week, three journalists, Aarne Rannamäe, Sulev Valner and Heidit Kaio, sat in the studio and discussed topics that take place in Estonia. They raised questions and sought solutions. The show passed, as always quite boringly, but it became quite exciting when it came to discussing what was happening in Riigikogu Question Time and what questions Riigikogu members might ask in Question Time and which were not. One question that particularly affected them was the question I asked Mr Ansip about why the Government of the Republic did not speak to members of the Riigikogu, did not tell the people honestly what was happening in the euro zone when we were told the sweet talk that the Estonian state's only chance was to join the euro. And the anger the way they talked about it literally spread to that faraway Setumaa in my farmhouse. I can't believe the way people spoke about it! Aarne Rannamäe said that such questions are literally bizarre questions. I want to explain today how these questions actually arrive at Riigikogu Question Time. In the same way, the people of South-East Estonia ask me why Ansip does not talk to the people, why the government does not speak honestly to the people about what is happening in the European Union, what is happening in the euro zone. That is not just the question of pensioners and simple people, but the question of teachers, doctors, teachers. They ask me these questions, I formulate them and bring them to the Riigikogu briefing. And no one in Estonia has the right to say that such questions are bizarre questions. They are presented not by the bizarre people in Estonia, but by simple Estonian citizens, and they have every right to do so. I think that journalists themselves could go to the outskirts of Southeast Estonia and ask people what they are interested in and discuss these issues. When I listened to this discussion, I got the feeling that we haven't learned anything in 20 years of independence. I got the feeling that some people still want to use some kind of force to get the people to ask the Minister good questions, pleasant questions, non-irritant questions, and to give up all other questions for funny questions. Censorship is requested. I want to tell the press not to mock people. Let them ask the questions they're interested in. Don't mock the simple people of Southeast Estonia through the ether and don't come here to scare! I do not expect the journalists of Estonian National Broadcasting to apologize to Estonian citizens, but I hope that the ERR will draw its own conclusions from this. I would like to confirm one more thing: if the people of Estonia ask me questions and I cannot answer them, and if they then want me to ask these questions in the Riigikogu, I will continue to bring all kinds of questions to this Riigikogu briefing. And whether Ansip likes them or not, our prime minister must answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U180	Thank you very much. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U181	Ladies and gentlemen, I was actually moved by the remote to come here today. We've been here for the fifth hour with these questions, and I think we've had a very interesting time here in this Chamber. There have been three ministers here who have given constructive answers, and we have asked. We have all grown wiser, and we have held a debate in the Riigikogu. At the same time, it is very sad to see that during this whole period, there has been at most one envoy on the coalition side, plus one who is chairing the sitting, because the sitting would otherwise simply not take place. We know that there was another event here in the Riigikogu at the same time of the day; this was the event of the Riigikogu's local governments and regional policy support group. I think we all really wanted to be there. These are important issues. All of us, mostly all of us, are from the regions, and it was precisely those topics that were discussed that are necessary for all of us. I would like to draw the attention of the Riigikogu Board to the fact that at the same time, when there is a sitting in this Chamber, there should not be another parallel event of this magnitude. At least as I recall, in the nine years I have been here in the Riigikogu, it has never been done in such a way that some can take part in the group's event and others cannot. So once again, board, please, don't let this happen again. If there is a Riigikogu sitting, it is a Riigikogu sitting, and at that time we cannot organise a parallel event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-19_U182	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing today's session. Have a good night. Bye! Closure of the sitting at 19.13 a.m.
