ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U2	Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Government of the Republic! Your Excellencys! Ladies and gentlemen! Pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu is chairing today's session until the election of the President of the Riigikogu by Alo Heinsalu, vice-president of the Riigikogu Election Committee. The President of the Republic has the floor to open the first session of the first session of the XII Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U3	The XIIth Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia is respected! Ladies and gentlemen! Good friends! Elections have taken place, their results have been announced and 101 representatives of the Estonian people have taken up their jobs here. As in many countries, we have the custom of numbering our parliamentary compositions. We are doing this because every Parliament starts as a clean slate. Each formation shall have a new mandate. Every member of the Riigikogu begins again and again today. This means that you do not need to be restrained if you find that what has been done so far does not work well. That means you can do it another way and a new way when the old way didn't work out. This means sticking to your beliefs. About what you think is right. The Constitution has appointed the Riigikogu to last through time. On the one hand, it gives you the duty to be worthy of your predecessors, to keep and promote what has been done here. On the other hand, it is up to you how the people of Estonia will feel about their parliament and their country in ten, fifty and a hundred years' time. Each of you has one, but it is an exceptional privilege: to represent the people and make the decisions determining the state's success, with the support of trust from the highest authority. Each member of the Riigikogu therefore bears double responsibility. He must earn his mandate and represent the will of his constituents, but at the same time he is responsible to the parliament, whose order number is increasing as the Republic of Estonia lives. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important feature of a member of the Riigikogu is the understanding that he has been elected to serve his constituents, to serve the country. The cost of this service may be severe, as the plaque in the courtyard of the parliament building confirms to the members of the Riigikogu who were victims of repression by the occupying authorities. Let's not forget for a second that serving the state is an honor. Honor does not distinguish according to gender, age, nationality, political party or constituency. This is the capital that measures your performance on the day your mandate ends in this house. And let's all hope together that this moral capital can be given to your offspring more than you found here today. If the needle of your moral compass points in the right direction, if you follow your work from the knowledge that it is the language, culture, and spirituality of this land and nation that carry our country and every human being, then this task is not difficult. It's not too much anyway. Good friends! You're starting a clean slate, but you're standing on a solid foundation. I thank the composition of the XI Riigikogu, whose powers fell into difficult times in many respects. Many of the promises made to the people at the brink of economic growth collapsed in the face of the economic crisis. The war in Georgia changed Europe's security policy space and shattered the understanding that the European security structure and its underlying principles, which developed 20 years ago, will last forever. Street riots in Tallinn forced us to reassess the omissions of our integration and education policies and confirmed the persistence of Soviet ideas. But it must also be acknowledged that at the same time, Estonia became an international example when it was intended to mention a country that quickly adapted to changed economic circumstances. Some countries postponed painful decisions, others failed to make them. It's harder for them today, their future is more unclear. Of course, this knowledge does not bring us joy. The woes of others do not make Estonia's concern and frustration even less so, which the severe recession brought to our families and businesses. But Estonia did it. As in nature today, Estonia's economy is showing signs of a thriving emergence. For this I would like to congratulate the peaceful people; the government which, without delay, took the inevitable decisions. I want to thank the Riigikogu, who preferred cooperation to confrontation and paralysis. A month ago, the voter scored a grade on this job, but not just that. He sent hope and a message to Toompea that the next possible setback would be milder and less unexpected. The voter invested in this belief that the Estonian state will grow more caring, smarter and better in the next four years. Ladies and gentlemen! Your predecessors' generally good work has also been overshadowed by constitutional contradictions and foolish fingers. I've been pointing at them all the time. Everyone's wrong, and it's human. Countries, too, sometimes make wrong decisions in their best interests. In a good case, we will be able to correct these mistakes later. But carelessness and negligence, conscious and deliberate disregard of the Constitution could completely rule out the composition of Riigikogu XII from the first working day. I would like you to have the courage to return to laws that are not as expected at the beginning. Put these laws in order because a law that works badly, inadequately or not at all undermines faith in the rule of law and constitutional order. Ask about every new law: Is it needed? Does the benefits and clarity expected from the new law outweigh the confusion and possible harm involved? Ask about each section and each budget line: Does this increase the well-being of our people? Does this make Estonia bigger and better? Ladies and gentlemen! When I took office four and a half years ago, I formulated a dream for Estonia in this very hall, but first and foremost for myself, which is rather an obligation. I was then hoping that on the 20th anniversary of the restoration of Estonia's independence, our country would look like this and act as if the occupation never existed. In many ways, we have reached our goal. In 20 years, we have won back most of what we lost in 50 years. For the most part, we have been able to avoid the mistakes that once led to the destruction of statehood. Unlike that era, we can and want to talk openly about our problems. This is a joint achievement of the entire Estonian people, our entrepreneurs and creative people, our civil society and the press, Estonian state officials, different governments and parliamentary formations. We know our concerns and problems, which were resolved by the electoral mandate given to the new Parliament and to the soon-to-be-appointed government. We know our weaknesses, which have mercilessly exposed the recent economic crisis. If Estonia is doing well, if our economy is growing and the sun is shining, then everything will be fine. However, when the economy is hit by a severe recession, when a heavy snowfall or strong wind stops traffic, leads to electricity and flies roofs, our country starts to tear. The state is helpless at the very moment when citizens rely on its support and help. Estonia still lacks a supply of strength. We have optimized him too much at times. None of the machines that function, since then, can be designed with ideal conditions in mind. We must thank the good fortune that we were able to rebuild our country at a time that saved us from major shocks in Estonia and just beyond our borders. Now, more mature, wealthier and as a member of the best organisations in the world, it is our duty to make society more cohesive and therefore stronger. Let it be our next goal. Respectable Riigikogu! In the last four years, Estonia's place in the world and Europe has changed unnoticed, but also significantly. The economic crisis has declared an exhausted, even unfit, division of Europe into new and old, East and West. Today, the credibility of a Member State of the European Union increasingly depends on its responsible behaviour. Once upon a time, belonging to the winner of the Cold War and with the support of the then Structural Funds will cost less and less the beautiful infrastructure built there. Estonia is an adult country, and so we are treated. This implies an obligation to help others, whether in Afghanistan, on the Somali coast or in the Nordic battle group, but also by contributing to the European Stability Mechanism to support those who have gone worse than Estonia if necessary. Our increasing freedom, opportunities to travel around the world, also means an increasing responsibility on the part of the country to protect its citizens around the world. Ladies and gentlemen! In fulfilling your electoral mandate, ask yourself straight and honestly: is life everywhere in Estonia worth living in the same way? Are all our talents blooming? Will the education provided by our universities satisfy our smartest young people? Do our primary schools, vocational schools, and upper secondary schools prepare young people who can cope and find employment in the 21st century economy? Will the best ideas become decisions promoting common interests? Are the constitutional rights of our citizens always and everywhere irrefutablely protected? Are we all happy, regardless of our native language and culture, right here in Estonia? As long as the answer is 'no' or even 'no', we should not worry about a lack of ambition. Estonia's next goal is to design a living environment from which its people do not leave, where people come back from abroad richer and where all Estonian friends want to live, prove themselves and enrich our life together. And then we really have a country that looks like this and acts like there never was an occupation here. This goal deserves effort and self-exercise; it deserves the suppression of personal egoism and party pettyism, meaningful cooperation between the coalition and opposition. You, respectable members of the XII Riigikogu, have the opportunity as a clean slate to reach this goal and serve your country, your people in the best way. Good luck with that! Thank you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U4	Thank you, President of the Republic! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We're conducting a presence check. Thank you! 101 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U5	To read the text of the oath of office of a member of the Riigikogu, please speak to Ene Ergma, the most honorable member of the XII Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U6	By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U7	I now ask you to sign the oath text: Aas, Jaak Aaviksoo, Rein Aior Lem Lem Lem, Lim, Lim, Al Al, Andrus Ansip, Andres Anvelt, Peep Aru, Deniss Borodit, En Essmaa, Eldar Efdijev, Igor Gräzin, Margus Hanson, Aare Heinvevee, Andres Herkel, Remo Holsmer, Kaia Iva, Jüri Jaanson, Kalle Jents, Lembit Kaljuvevevee, Kaja Kallas, Kalev Kallas, Kalev Kallas, Kalev Kalav Kalkal Kaljuveve, Kalvi Tul, Kalvi Tul, Helmen Hard, Kalmen Kaika, Kalme La La La La La La L, Mart La La La La La La La, La La La La La La La La La La, Rein, Rein Lang, Tarmo Leina, Karmo Lei Lem, K J J Jour, Him Lem, He N, He N Lem, Me, Me, Me N, Me, Me, Me N, Me N, Me N, Me Me N, Me, Me Me Me Me Me Me, El, El, El, Me Me Me N, El, El, El, Me N, El, El, El, Me Me, El, El, El, El, El, El, Me, El, El, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me, Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me, Me, Me Me Me Me Me Me, Me, Me Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me Me, Me, Me Me Me Me Me, Me, Me Me Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me, Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me, Me, Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Election Commission of the Republic, I congratulate you on taking up your duties. [[Let's hear it.]] [[Sings the choir.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U8	In the performance of Järvamaa boys' choir and girls' choir, Ülo Vinter's "Song from the North" sounded to Enn Vetemaa's words. Choir conductors are Indrek Vijard and Tiiu Schüts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U9	Dear Riigikogu! According to § 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Riigikogu elects the President of the Riigikogu and two vice-chairmen from among its members. In organising elections, the Riigikogu Election Committee is governed by § 7, § 81 (2) and § 86.89 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. Before going to the election procedures, let me briefly introduce you to the election of the Riigikogu Board. First, the President of the Riigikogu is elected. The Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu are elected at the same time after the election of the Chairman of the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu may appoint a candidate. After the election of the President of the Riigikogu, candidates for the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu shall be appointed. The proposed person must give his or her consent to the application. Voting shall be by secret ballot. Each member of the Riigikogu has one vote in the election of both the Chair and Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. The votes shall be taken publicly as soon as the vote is closed. Objections to the organisation of the vote shall be submitted to the selection panel immediately after the end of the vote and on the outcome of the vote, without delay after the result of the vote has been announced. The result of the election shall be announced immediately after the possible protests have been examined. A candidate who receives more than half of the valid votes shall be elected as chairman of the Riigikogu. If no candidate receives more than half of the valid votes, an additional round shall be held between the two candidates with the highest votes. In the case of equal votes, lots shall be cast. If there is only one candidate on the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu, he will be elected if he receives more votes in favour than against. I will introduce the voting procedure to you before the vote is announced. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions about what has been said so far? There are no questions. Does one of the members of the Riigikogu wish to appoint a candidate for the Chairman of the Riigikogu? Mart Laar, the chair is all yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U10	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Honourable Riigikogu! Ene Ergma will be nominated for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. I think we all know Ene well. We've seen him do his job. He's done it well. That's why I think he's a very good candidate for this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U11	Any other suggestions? I don't see any more requests for nominations. Mrs Ergma, are you willing to apply for the position of Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U12	Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U13	Please also give your consent in writing! Dear Riigikogu! Who is in favour of closing the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu? Please vote! There are 95 votes to 0 members of the Riigikogu with 2 abstentions. The list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu is closed. I declare a break for the appointment of candidates for the President of the Riigikogu on the ballot paper. We'll signal the end of the break with an audible signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U14	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to conduct the election of the President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission will check the ballot box and seal it with a security seal right here in front of you. Allow me to introduce the voting procedure below. The election committee gives the member of the Riigikogu a voting slip along with the envelope on the basis of the list. Members of the Riigikogu should submit an identity document to the electoral committee, i.e. a certificate from a member of the Riigikogu, a passport, an ID card or a driving licence, in order to receive a ballot paper. A member of the Riigikogu shall sign a ballot paper. The ballot papers shall be filled in in the voting booth. Since there is only one candidate for the Chairman of the Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu will vote for or against the candidate by ticking the cell "for" or "against" with the name of the candidate on the ballot paper. Voting ballots which have both boxes marked or which do not have any boxes marked shall be deemed to be null and void. Voting is organised in the lobby next to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. You leave the back door of the voting room, there are tables in the lobby where you can get a ballot paper and an envelope. After receiving the ballot paper, you will make your decision in the voting booth, place the ballot paper in the envelope and go to the voting box where, after the envelope is sealed by the electoral commission, you will personally put your ballot paper in the ballot box. If you have accidentally erred or violated the ballot paper and notice it before the note is placed in the ballot box, you have the right to receive a new ballot paper when the corrupt note is returned. Any questions about that part? I don't see any questions. In addition to members of the Riigikogu, only members of the electoral committee and persons serving the electoral committee may be present in the voting room during the elections. According to § 87 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu have 30 minutes to vote from the beginning of the voting. It's 4:19. We give a signal of the end of the vote, after which I ask all members of the Riigikogu to gather back in the Chamber. I declare voting for the election of the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U15	Dear Riigikogu! I declare the vote closed when the President of the Riigikogu is elected. Please bring the ballot box to the hall! Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? I don't see any protests. Let's go to the next procedure. First of all, please check the voting box and check whether the security seal on the voting box has been violated. Thank you! I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I ask the Riigikogu Election Committee to read the votes in public, too!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U16	I will make a public check here before you to see if the initial results correspond to reality. That is, I will name the candidate for the President of the Riigikogu and read the votes cast for and against him. Ene Ergma by: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59. Ene Against Ergma: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U17	I will announce the results of the vote in the election of the President of the Riigikogu. I will read to you the minutes of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the results of voting in the election of the President of the Riigikogu: "The Election Committee of the Republic has determined the following figures in the counting of votes. The number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list is 101. The number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper was 101. The number of members of the Riigikogu who participated in the vote Number of unsuccessful ballot papers 0. Number of votes cast on the candidate for the President of the Riigikogu: Number of votes cast by Ene Ergma The Protocol was drawn up on 4 April 2011 at 5.02 p.m. Heiki Sibul, President of the Election Commission of the Republic.' Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about determining the result of voting? No, it's not. In that case, please complete the decision of the Republic Election Commission. I declare the election result for the election of the President of the Riigikogu. "Decision No 68 of the Election Committee of the Republic of Estonia of 4 April 2011 "Identifying the results of the election of the President of the Riigikogu": pursuant to Article 7 (5) and Article 82 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Election Committee of the Republic decides: declare Ene Ergma elected as Chairman of the Riigikogu. Heiki Sibul, President of the Election Commission of the Republic.' [[Let's hear it.]] The Riigikogu Election Committee has announced the results of the election of the President of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Riigikogu, please join the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U18	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! The Government of the Republic! I am pleased to welcome the XII Riigikogu and thank the citizens of Estonia whose decision and choice have brought us here. Now it is our turn to prove that we deserve the trust of these people. The working hours of the previous parliamentary term remained the financial and economic crisis, many difficult decisions had to be taken to come out of it. We made it! Good ambassadors! The elections are now over and the day-to-day parliamentary work, which requires commitment. I am convinced that our work will be tense in the next four years, because our opportunities are limited. But our common desire is to make Estonia a country where people are good to live. It is certainly easier for the coalition to act in this Riigikogu than in the previous one. The coalition agreement has been made with a sense of responsibility and the promises made in it have been brought into line with the possibilities of the state. However, there is a lot of work to be done in the political groups, committees and Chambers of the Riigikogu so that the coalition agreement can be discussed and understood in detail before it is realised. Honourable Riigikogu! For the first time since the restoration of independence, two right-wing parties entered into a coalition agreement. A sad experience from the time of the previous government's action shows that if the coalition is not based on a similar view of the world and does not share common values, it may fall apart as difficulties arise. It seems that there is also an opposition that shares common values in the XII Riigikogu. I hope that his role will be not only to criticise but also to offer new ideas and choices. And also: let us not forget the voters. For though they have trusted us, all wisdom is not gathered in this hall with us. Everyone who can and wants to help Estonia with their knowledge and experience must be heard. Let us be open to their thoughts! I hope that we can all justify the trust that people have given us. Get back to work and thank you for your trust! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U19	According to the law, I now hand over the management of the Riigikogu sitting to the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U20	Ladies and gentlemen, The election procedure of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu is basically the same as that of the President. The two candidates who have received the most votes will be vice-chairmen of the Riigikogu. The first vice-chairman shall be the candidate with the highest number of votes and the second candidate with the highest number of votes received as vice-chairman. An additional round of elections shall be organised among the votes gathered equally. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? Does one of the members of the Riigikogu wish to appoint a candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? Now the chair is yours. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, I present Jüri Ratas as the candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Those of us who have had the opportunity to cooperate with Jüri Ratas in the last four years in this Chamber know him as the effective and active chair of Riigikogu meetings. But he has another plus: he does not divide this hall along this longitudinal line into us and them, but he stands for all of us 101 here in the Riigikogu to be active in this hall and well represented outside this hall. That we should work together to implement what the voters have sent us here for, and to do a policy that is in the best interests of the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U22	Thank you. Please, colleague Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U23	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, I propose Laine Randjärv as the candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, who is also an unspoken good person. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U24	Thank you. Any other suggestions? There is no further request for nominations. According to § 7 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the names of candidates who consent to apply are entered on the list of candidates. Mr. Ratas, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U25	Thank you! Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U26	Mrs. Randvere, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U27	Let me be clear: Randjärv. Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U28	Randjärv, yes. I'm sorry! Please also bring your consent in writing! Dear Riigikogu, who is in favour of closing the list of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu? Please vote! There are 91 members of the Riigikogu, one against, no abstentions. The list of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu is closed. I declare a break for the appointment of candidates for Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu on ballot papers. We'll signal the end of the break with an audible signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U29	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll call it a break. The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to conduct the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Commission will check the ballot box and seal it with a security seal right here in front of you. The voting procedure is the same as for the election of the President of the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu shall tick a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Do members of the Riigikogu have any questions about voting? There are no questions. The time allowed for voting is 30 minutes from the beginning of the vote. It's 17.16. We'll go on 17.46. We give a signal of the end of the vote, after which I ask all members of the Riigikogu to regroup in the Chamber. Thank you and I declare voting to elect the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U30	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the vote closed in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Please bring the ballot box to the hall! Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? There are no protests. First of all, please check the voting box and check whether the security seal on the voting box has been violated. I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] In order to verify the results of the vote, I give the floor to the Riigikogu Election Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U31	I will make a public check here before you to see if the initial results correspond to reality. That is, I will name the candidates for the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu in the order that they have been entered on the ballot paper, and I will read the votes they have given. Jüri Ratas: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46. Laine Randjärv: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52. Labored ballot papers: 1, 2, 3. The ballot papers are invalid because both cells have been marked for the voter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U32	I will announce the results of the vote in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. "The Minutes of the Election Committee of the Republic on the result of voting in the elections of the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu. The electoral committee of the Republic established the following figures in the counting of votes. The number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list is 101. The number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper was 101. The number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the vote was 101. Number of unsuccessful ballot papers.3. Number of votes cast on the candidates for the vice-presidents of the Riigikogu: 46 votes cast by Jüri Ratas, candidate for the vice-president of the Riigikogu; 52 votes cast by Laine Randjärv. The protocol was drawn up on 4 April 2011 at 5.55 p.m. Heiki Sibul, President of the Election Commission of the Republic.' Any protests? There are no protests. "Decision of the Election Commission of the Republic. Tallinn, 4 April 2011, no 69. Identifying the results of the elections of the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu. On the basis of § 7 (6) and § 82 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the Election Committee of the Republic decides to: declare Laine Randjärv elected as the first vice-president of the Riigikogu and Jüri Ratas as the second vice-president of the Riigikogu. Heiki Sibul, President of the Election Commission of the Republic.' [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The new board has been elected. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a new board of directors. My colleague Laine Randjärv and my colleague Jüri Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U33	Dear Riigikogu! According to § 5 of the Rules of Procedure and Home Act of the Riigikogu, please submit a statement to the Prime Minister of the Speaker Andrus Ansip!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U34	Honourable Riigikogu Board! Honourable Riigikogu! I congratulate the members of the XII Riigikogu on behalf of the outgoing government! I thank the ministers of the outgoing government for serving the Estonian people in the past four years and announce the resignation of the Government of the Republic pursuant to § 92 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 8 (1) of the Government Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-04_U35	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. According to § 11 (1) of the Government Act, the Government of the Republic will continue its activities until the new government takes office. The first session of the XII Riigikogu is closed. Thank you. Please gather the members of the Riigikogu in the lobby on the first floor to take a photo. Closure of the sitting at 6 p.m.
