ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu and honourable members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. We're gonna do a presence check. 46 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and 55 are missing. The following members of the government will take part in today's Question Time: Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus Prime Minister, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U2	Let's start Question Time. The first question is from my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to the Minister for Justice, Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, Minister. Here's the question. The developments in criminal policy adopted last year concern domestic violence as a serious crime against individuals, the witnessing of which in childhood increases the likelihood of exposure to violence at a later stage. In order to prevent or prevent this, it introduces the basic roadwork of explanation and social work, the difficulty of which falls mostly to the Ministry of Social Affairs and local authorities. However, this phenomenon has not disappeared in society and has not improved in any way. According to various studies, domestic violence is reported to be around one fifth of Estonian families. Hence the question: whether and what legislative initiatives are planned in the near future by the Ministry of Justice in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U4	Thank you. That's a good question! I've been looking at this study the same way, and I think the questioner is right. There is a clear correlation that if anyone has been exposed to violence in the past or has been the source of such violence, it is possible to get into the same situation once again. So in this sense, the first part of the question is very correct. In fact, there was an answer in the second half of the question. It is not just the Ministry of Justice that is responsible for reducing violence, although we are a component, a part of who does it. The Ministry of Social Affairs also has its own programmes and other ministries have the same. Today, for example, guidance material is being prepared for specialists, which is exactly what gives advice on how to recognise the victim of domestic violence and how to act in this case. As far as our administration is concerned, for example, in prisons, there are appropriate programmes for those people who have been exposed to domestic violence in the past. It's a small part of the whole thing. This activity is ongoing and the Ministry of Social Affairs will also play its part if you refer to social services. Legislative initiatives can come on the basis of a joint initiative. This development plan, however, foresees a number of activities that are already being carried out. So additional legislative initiatives are not about to come. There is one thing that the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, to which you belong, has asked for an analysis and what we are doing: it is the same restraining order with the possibility of applying electronic supervision. The second opposition party has drawn attention to this. So there's an interest in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U5	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U6	Thank you. I really am, and the answer can be simple no yes. Does the Ministry of Justice intend, or is it at least under consideration, to specifically identify the qualified composition of domestic violence in the Penal Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U7	Thank you. To be honest, it's been discussed. Let's just say, as I have pointed out in my previous answers to various questions, all such decisions can be based on analysis. There is now a broader analysis of the Penal Code, as you know, and this whole relationship between criminalisation and decriminalisation will be made public in some initial form at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. In fact, then, it can be assessed whether there is a need for and how to deal with a separate composition. This analysis is conducted by Jaan Sootak and a very broad group of Estonian professionals is involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U8	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U9	I am not going to leave the fine minister pressed and ask about the Code of Criminal Procedure on the same subject. Many European countries have supplemented their procedural codes, their codes of conduct, and they have added a term to which there is no direct equivalent in Estonian. This can be explained by the police temporarily isolating the perpetrator from the victim before a restraining order enters into force, creating such a buffer and a possible perpetrator being moved away from the victim for a period of time. Hasn't that been considered? To be honest, there is a huge shortage of it, as the meetings in women's shelters have revealed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U10	Thank you. I myself have also met representatives of women's associations, with whom we have talked about several things, including the composition of human trafficking, which is now being written for the first time in Estonia. This has been their great interest and prayer and, in fact, a rather important sign for Estonia, either externally or externally. As far as this possibility of temporary isolation is concerned, in general, this first contact is also important when dealing with the police. Very often, if you go to any institution, the first contact will determine how everything goes. When you go to a medical facility, the way you are treated at the reception often depends on the mood you are in, regardless of how good your doctor is. Similarly, the prosecutor's office has paid attention to this, and I know that the police are also conducting trainings. It is precisely the first contact that the main emphasis is placed on, that if a report is made or there is something that indicates cases of domestic violence, that it is not left unreacted. The statistical side, the first part that has already come out of our analysis and is in the public domain, says that 93% of such cases are also subject to proceedings. So actually, this percentage is pretty high. We will analyse what will happen from these procedures and for what reasons the remaining procedures will not be initiated. At the moment, the emphasis is on making sure that the first contact is the best and that we can move on from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U11	Now, please, the questions registered on the spot! First of all, my colleague, Helmen Küütt.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question is that there is a separate line in the 2012 budget for the victims of prostitution, but there is not yet a number of women's asylums. Do you think it is necessary to have such a line there, because today's women's shelters, which are located across Estonia in different municipalities, are underfunded? They work on a project basis and very often depend on the financial resources of the local government whether or not they can support the stay of a person from that municipality in a shelter. I understand that this issue is directly to the Minister for Social Affairs, but since the topic also concerns the issue of domestic violence, as highlighted in the developments in criminal policy, suddenly you say a few words about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U13	Thank you. This question should indeed be addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs in terms of the budget, and you are certainly right about that. At this same meeting, the heads of women's shelters also mentioned the same issue of money, which is always very important in all activities in general. For our part, we have been thinking that, if the laws contain a letter on the composition of human trafficking, the state will be able to assess in which case and in which case the state should cover these expenses. It is the victims of human trafficking, for example. So I think that if these definitions come into place on the legislative side, it may also be easier for the Ministry of Social Affairs and women's shelters to find a common language and see what someone needs to finance exactly. In fact, one of the country's priorities is also to reduce human trafficking and its victims, and here I see a clear point of contact. I am not saying today that it is expressed in money, but it can serve as a basis for the presentation of money in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U14	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I absolutely agree with your statement that very often the first contact is crucial and that it depends on how it is going to develop. This is particularly important when a citizen who has a problem finally gets in the door of the police and the answer is a person who understands the problem. However, we have made a number of legislative initiatives to go to the next stage so that the human concern is heard and concrete measures are taken. My question concerns this analysis, which you mentioned earlier, and which concerns both the restraining order and the question of Andres Anvelt, which is largely one package. How far are you with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U16	The honest answer is that the analysis is at such a stage that it cannot yet be presented to the public. We have presented to the public the first part of the analysis, which concerns the handling of cases of domestic violence, including these figures, 93%, etc. As soon as we get to the end of the line, when we see how these procedures have been carried out, what has been passed on to them, we will also make this information public. The Ministry of Justice has a common practice that, regardless of the results, they are all up on our website, even if it was a public health corruption survey yesterday. All these are available on our website and you are always welcome to look at them as soon as they are ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U17	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U18	Thank you. I ask the Minister how the statistics on domestic violence reflect the behaviour of same-sex families.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U19	Honestly, I don't know how to answer that by heart. I'd rather owe you an answer. They're not going under the family definition right now. I don't even know how the police register it. It is probably registered as physical abuse between individuals. But I'm sure I'll look into it, given your interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U20	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U21	Thank you very much. The International Day for Combating Violence Against Women is approaching on 25 November, and then, in our sense, Kadriday. I have two questions for the Minister. First of all, what is your message to society as Minister of Justice about this day? Secondly, when will Estonia be legalised, just as Austria has long been legalized, that the perpetrator, not the victim, will leave home? The victim is mostly a woman, and the children stay at home with her, but the man has to leave home.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U22	Thank you. In fact, police practice is that in general, the perpetrator leaves. I'm sure there's always other examples in life than you want, but the prevailing practice is still this. As the police say, there are also situations where violence is a social problem that cannot be resolved, for example by means of law enforcement, especially when alcohol and lifestyles are involved, which in any way contribute to it. But in the vast majority, I dare say the police are responding adequately. Trainings have been carried out in the police and this level has clearly increased. I think the direction is clearly for the better. Let's just say I wish everyone a nice curry day. I do not see any great tragedy here or that there is something very wrong in Estonia. In my opinion, the Estonian justice system, the police and the social system are clearly moving in the right direction, tolerance to violence has clearly decreased and will also decrease in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U23	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Gräzin, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U24	I was struck, Minister, by a fact I discovered today. There are 1,100 shelters in London for women, victims of domestic violence. Well, I get it, man at home, women have places to go. There are 1,100 places for women and only 36 places for men who are beaten by women. The question is: could Estonian men be better protected against domestic violence, or is that not a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U25	Any violence is a problem, it is violence in one way or the other. At least by looking at the legal system, all forms of violence will be treated equally and will not occur otherwise. To put it quite well, in terms of trends, it is, of course, that men are still the source of physical violence for women. Studies, which have also been discussed at various political meetings and committees, suggest that the trend towards mental violence is the other way around. It's very hard to say. Like I said, there's no love in the law. I hope that this will continue everywhere and that there will be as little violence as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U26	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U27	The next question, Mr Gräzin, please. The question is again for the Minister of Justice, Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U28	The question concerns a new issue that has become very sensitive: chemical castration in relation to paedophilia. That's the question. Firstly, what is the immediate purpose of the measure for which it is intended? Secondly, when should these objectives be realised? What's the goal and when can we get this seal to run? That's the question. I'll tell you why I'm asking. Look, if this prevents even one paedophilia event, we would be interested to make it as effective as possible and start as quickly as possible. That's the point. What is the purpose, and when will it be realized?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U29	Thank you. The goal is exactly what you put it to be. If this prevents even one sexual crime against children in the future, I believe that the aim is actually achieved and the money is well spent. In time, we have planned that it could be completed by 1 January 2013 when it would also be operational. It is quite complex, with a wide range of professional associations involved. The medical side that needs to be dealt with is perhaps even somewhat more complicated than the legal side. As far as the legal side is concerned, the same bill has gone out of our house, hopefully we will move forward with it at a speedy pace, and at some point we will also get before Parliament. How it actually works, it's very simple. The target group is all sexual offenders with a sentence of less than two years, with a program ranging from 18 months to 3 years. In part, not entirely, it is possible to replace punishment with this program, which means both continuous treatment with medication and complete therapy. It's not like they give pills on a tray and say, "Be a good man, take it off and come back in three years." It still means constant encounter with people who can appreciate the sentence's state of mind. If, in some cases, this treatment should not be completed, for example, because the perpetrator is uncontradicted by these medical measures, which may occur, the solution is actually very simple: the criminal goes back to serving the sentence in prison. So there will be no escape through it. The aim is to reduce sexual crimes against children.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U30	Please, Mr Gräzin, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U31	Don't the people of the ministry think that this punishment, frankly, is a little soft? Not only is it late, it's soft. I'm gonna ask you nicely. Let's put it this way: why volunteer and pills if you can be mandatory and pliers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U32	Thank you. As far as I know, this may not be done with pliers, but it is not a long time ago, if something like surgical castration has still taken place in one European country. In general, in another world where it is applied, experience has shown that it produces better results in preventing future crimes against sex offenders than simply imprisonment. Today we are talking about this target group, who has been sentenced to imprisonment for less than two years. Their imprisonment, including the inclusion of this program, is a signal to society that they are under control for a long time if they are simply in prison. I think that, in the end, without taking into account the proposal for pliers, this is a good result, and it is still a relatively clear control of a certain target group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U33	Please, Mr Gräzin, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U34	Once again, I am heated in favour of this bill, and perhaps it is a pity that it is a little more lenient than it could be. But at the same time, he's a little bit sexy on one side. He thinks men are pedophiles, and girls are victims. Again, the same English example: a very large category of victims are young boys who fall victim to middle-aged female teachers. This is a social problem entirely in its own right. Can't we sometimes look at this problem of sexual violence by protecting the male sex a little bit? What do you do in such cases, or do you have a pill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U35	This program, as such, extends to both sexes, there is no gender discrimination here. But during the discussions on this draft, I have not encountered the fact that it is predominantly a problem for middle-aged teachers. I don't have that kind of information. It's supposed to be the way I see it in England. I do not have such information about Estonia. This program extends to anyone who has been convicted of a sexual crime, regardless of gender and everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U36	Now, please, the questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Peter Võsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U37	Thank you. I have such a question for the Minister. Because of my incompetence on the question of cognition, I asked for a consultation and learned that it was possible to chemically suppress sexual drive or spermatogenesis, but only temporarily. So it doesn't stand in the way of rape itself. Please explain to me what this process is technically going to look like to prevent rape?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U38	Thank you. The Ministry of Social Affairs has been involved in the development of this treatment, the Estonian Psychiatric Society, Tartu Children's Support Centre, the Estonian Sexual Health Association and many others have been involved. Why do I call them? Because the whole ideabook and the whole programme application have been researched by the experience of other countries and asked for the opinion of our practitioners. As I said before when Igor Gräzin was answered, it is not enough that a person is given drugs on a tray, and then it is hoped that sexual activity will be suppressed for some time. Actually, there's also therapy. I dare say that Estonian doctors are competent enough and good enough to assess whether a person is making progress in this therapy and going on whether he is actually changing, or whether he is not taking part in this programme and should rather go back to prison. So one part of this program is actually therapy and the person's own desire to get better and change. Nobody has an absolute solution other than these same tank ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U39	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U40	Thank you. Of course, motherfuckers have a lot of experience in this area, too. But my question is a little different, terminological. In fact, it is a very sensible measure, which is necessary and is applied with the consent of a person, just as it is a cure for alcoholism. But we talk about castration all the time. The castration of this is a complete final procedure, the final operation, either surgical or chemical. In the same way, we might say that a pickpocket can, for example, surgically or chemically, by means of an injection, render an arm ineffective, may give an injection that, for example, temporarily immobilizes the hand, I do not know whether it will be for a week or a month. But when we talk about castration, we set a precedent. Shouldn't we call it a different terminologically?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U41	Let's say castration is, how to say, a general denominator and maybe a term that everyone understands. In the official language, no one calls it castration. It's still a treatment combined with a penalty system. As a doctor, I'm sure you know better what these options are.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U42	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Anvelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I have such a purely pragmatic question. The taxpayer pays off any criminal, including the imprisonment of a sexual criminal. What about this, I don't know what to call it, chemical castration? Who's gonna pay for this treatment? Does it come from the paedophile himself, or does it come from the taxpayer's pocket?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U44	Thank you. At least at the beginning, we have planned for it to come from the taxpayer. As you said, there are other costs when a person is in prison. Not to mention these costs, if they can be called costs at all, which specifically concern victims of criminals, and usually are not one victim. We have planned that, in the first years of start-up, this size will be EUR 45000 to EUR 47000, and I think that this money will be well spent. In the future, we have in no way ruled out this possibility, we even talked about it during the discussion of the bill, but the experts said that if you leave it, as you have said, to the concern of a citizen paedophile, very often this programme is not involved, people are coming out of prison and the danger to society is greater. Our interest is that this danger is less, and that is what the taxpayer is actually paying for. In the future, I will not rule out the possibility that, if we change the system, some or most of the cost of this treatment will be charged to those who have been subjected to this treatment. But for the time being, we have planned to leave it to the taxpayer. Experts who do this, including health people, say that at least in the beginning this solution is better.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U45	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U46	I would now like to ask my colleague Kajar Lember's question to the Minister for Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U47	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Hää! I am still concerned about the future of Estonian regional development. After various statements at government level, I can no longer understand who should be responsible for this area, i.e. whose word in directing regional development in Estonia pays. The Prime Minister is deeply concerned with the historic continuity of local authorities. In addition to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture also deal with the largest regional investments. We share the CO2 quota of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. The Minister for Economic Affairs also has the decisive word for tea money. The opening of the municipal purse is decided by the Minister of Finance. If the Minister of Justice is now also taking up the topic of administrative reform, I would like to ask what the Minister of Regional Affairs of the Republic of Estonia is going to do, or you think that regional development management is the art of delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U48	Thank you. Certainly, any management is an art of delegation, including regional development management. Indeed, regional development has also been referred to as a horizontal area in contrast to the vertical areas of branch ministries. Very many of our ministries are redistributing public funds to balance otherwise poorer regional assumptions in certain regions. According to the Government of the Republic Act, the whole area of regional development coordination and the whole area of regional development is the responsibility of the Minister of Regional Affairs. No fellow Member has approached me or discussed any other proposal in this area in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U49	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U50	Thank you. While we have already gone to the government's activities, you have declared in your coalition agreement and also in the programme of action of the Government of the Republic that you will develop and help finance a think tank for the development of local governments, where scientists, officials, politicians, self-governance and the free sector will meet. This deadline is the fourth quarter of 2011. I'm asking what's become of this plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U51	We are working on the implementation of this plan, an initiative meeting of the local government think tank has taken place. I have discussed with a large number of experts how best to organise this work. I am pleased that the members of the Riigikogu have also shown very great activity in this area, as far as I know, the support group for local governments and regional development in the Riigikogu is one of the largest, if not the biggest, and that you, for your part, want to take a serious part in this work. So I look forward to working well with the members of the Riigikogu to achieving the objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U52	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U53	I understood from what you said that a think tank would be set up this year. Would you perhaps also explain to the Riigikogu who you consider to be a member of the Riigikogu, what would be its whole purpose and real output?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U54	Above all, I want to see experts, scientists, experts in this area in the think tank. Of course, people who have links to political parties also have links with local governments. But these people are experts, too. The task for this House has not been set up in any way narrowly, in some form of action, but is broader: to deal with the issues of local governments. After all, the problems that most sound in this Chamber have been repeatedly mentioned by the Auditor General, the Chancellor of Justice and the representatives of the local governments, when this issue has been discussed as a matter of national importance. This whole issue will certainly fall within the scope of this House.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U55	Let's start with the issues registered on the spot. Colleagues Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U56	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister of your government said that local governments are not here to provide services. In my understanding, the Prime Minister should represent the government's position. At the same time, the Local Government Organisation Act lists a number of tasks and services that the local government should carry out, such as various social services, tasks related to education and culture, roads and streets, water and heat management, etc. Do you agree with the head of your government that local authorities are not providing services and, if you agree, for what do you think local authorities exist at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U57	I don't think the head of my government has said that exactly. I believe that this is an interpretation of some journalists or a simplification of what they say. I very much agree with you that local authorities have been given very many tasks, which can be described in summary as public services. Municipalities play a major role in organising people's and local life. How often people come up with statements that there is no knowing what problems local governments have or that they should be defined in some way, I am always very surprised because these problems are very clearly defined in the laws that have been adopted in this Chamber. The Riigikogu has given these tasks and this list is, of course, very long, but unambiguously exhaustive. We can always discuss whether they should be changed in any way, whether proposals should be made to the Riigikogu so that these tasks can be different, some could perhaps take over the state, as discussed here and suggestions made. But I am convinced that local democracy can actually be carried out when the issues of real life and the organisation of local life are also extended to areas other than village swings or some other small issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U58	Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U59	Thank you very much. It's a good thing we're talking about that last thing. Some time ago, I saw a button on the Finnish news that the number of Finnish local government units, or kunta, fell ten times in one region. When I asked how this was possible, it became clear that they were presented with a fact concerning services, specifically a health care network. That's my question. We often struggle about whether to act with counsel or force. Is it not possible to develop one such package, put it in front of the municipalities, and then, in fact, there will be a voluntary or forced merger?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U60	Thank you. In general, Finland has not so far had such large mergers. However, I will meet my Finnish colleague in the near future and try to understand more precisely what the future plans of the Finns will be. They intend to move clearly forward with the new administrative reform, focusing in particular on mergers, mergers and mergers of municipalities. They are not fully satisfied with the so-called mandatory joint action areas. It is clear that in some areas, issues can be resolved by forcing cooperation, but I think it is even more important for our municipalities today to force cooperation in general governance through accession.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U61	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U62	Thank you. A good colleague, Kajar Lember, was concerned about a possible reduction in the functions of the Regional Minister. You mentioned that one function of management is the art of delegation. If it is now art, are you not afraid that your coalition partner may propose that this function be transferred to the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U63	There is no fear, and neither has the coalition partner expressed such a wish in the form of any minister or any other politician. It is not a question of the Minister, it is a question of where the competence is, where there is daily communication with our local authorities, consultations, working groups, real cooperation with local authorities, where there are experts working in the public sector who are familiar with what is happening in our local government. It is clear that this is our ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U64	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about the historical rate. Jüri Uluots, a prominent lawyer and state figure, claims in his 1933 work 'The importance of own governments in Estonia from a historical point of view' that the smallest unit in the form of a rural municipality goes back to the herbs. 'The public units of Olla were villages and later villages. They carried out aggressive, administrative, tax, and religious tasks. ' Minister, can Jüri Uluots' theory be considered the ancestors of today's municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U66	Certainly monkeys can also be considered forerunners of people, but if we are talking, for example, about the time before the Soviet occupation, then it was understood at that time that municipalities needed to be strengthened. Serious self-government reform was carried out under the leadership of the State. As a result, I will give you an example, before the Soviet occupation there were municipalities in Estonia where less than 2000 inhabitants lived. These were mainly island municipalities, and there were a total of 18. There are now more than half of the municipalities in Estonia with fewer than 2,000 inhabitants. The majority of Estonian municipalities have fewer than 2000 inhabitants. I think that when we look at earlier times, towards our predecessors, we have to learn from them, to watch them make decisions and move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U67	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U68	Mr. Minister! I would like to pick up where Mr Toobal started. In the middle party, I've always been a little distracted by the fact that it's still important for them to have the money, for me to have an important person. And since Toobal put it this way, I would ask: is the municipality a service provider, i.e. some kind of local businessman, or is it the social policy foundation of a democratic Estonian state? Which one is he?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U69	For me, Mr Gräzin, there is also an important person, I agree 100% with you. The question is how we ensure that people everywhere in Estonia have equal opportunities. As far as we can guarantee it. Today's problem is that, as our authorities are uneven, they are unfortunately unable to provide people with the same assumptions everywhere in an equal manner. This is a serious problem. The Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention to this. We need to do something about this, otherwise some people will be in a worse position, and we will see the consequences. According to all kinds of research, people leave less able municipalities. Just get out of there because they've got worse chances. That's the question! If you talk about democracy again, as I said before, real judgment through representative democracy means that if I choose one of my ambassadors, I assume that this ambassador can somehow organise my life. Can't just say your hands are short. After all, at home, we can also choose the head of the family, extremely democratically, and say that he is organising all our activities at home. Our area of action, however, is wider, and the local person's expectation is that the chosen person will be able to contribute to the way people live in a much larger area than it often is today. Plus the situations when we're talking about very small municipalities. I have had to answer a question here in the Chamber of Riigikogu where I was asked how it was possible for a person to sit in a local government council who has received zero votes. If this local government gets very small, then, unfortunately, democracy will also disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U70	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I say right from the beginning, to be clear, that the socialist priority is also a person. As we can see from our election propaganda, everything is for the good of man. But now the question. The output of the think tank for the development of your local governments will probably be based on certain studies. You can give a short answer: how long do you foresee this process, when could this output come?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U72	I expect that this think tank will produce various outputs in the form of various proposals. They will, of course, be introduced to all politicians as soon as they are finished. It is certainly not possible to make a single proposal that solves absolutely all the problems of Estonian municipalities and regional development. Clearly, the problems will always remain. We can propose ways to improve the organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U73	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question concerns the Supreme Court decision of 2010. We all understand that this judgment was not to achieve formal changes. In fact, with this decision, it is necessary to give people the knowledge that they are offered the same availability and quality of services throughout Estonia, at least according to some standard. Has it been analysed, and is there an action plan for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U75	If you are referring to the Supreme Court's decision on the financing of local governments, there was no question of standards. The operative part of the Supreme Court's decision made it clear that it is necessary to separate the tasks assigned to local governments and are of the so-called local nature, and those tasks which are essentially the tasks of the state and which the state has delegated to local governments. In order to carry out the tasks delegated by the State to local authorities, separate financial resources must be provided and the funds must be shown separately in the budget. As you have seen, both in last year's budget and in this year's budget, that is the case. There is a lot of criticism about why these funds are so small and why so few tasks have been found that are considered by the parties as being national in nature. We have mapped out these tasks, we have developed a clear guide on how to identify tasks of a national nature, presented this material to all ministries, and all have made their own proposals. We have repeatedly called on the local governments to make their own proposals, so what are these tasks of a national nature? Unfortunately, there is very little opinion on what national tasks are. Now we have taken the next step, we have successively written down all the same legal tasks that local governments have in the first place and which were discussed here, and we have once again forwarded them to all ministries, so that everyone would look at the entire list once again whether any task of a national nature has been overlooked.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U76	Dear colleague, Priit Toobal! We have such a good habit here that one question from a point of view is asked. Since there are a lot of first questions on the ground, today time allows us to do so, I am now continuing with Andres Anvelt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U77	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Last week I visited a number of smaller municipalities in South Estonia, especially those with problems with the ability to save. It is clear that some of the commandos will disappear in the near future, but the concern was that there will be no very great voluntary growth or attack by volunteers anywhere. Haven't you discussed with the minister sitting in the same house with you that maybe all the arrangements for volunteer sprayers should be handed over to the local authorities, along with the amounts of money that the state budget has planned for this anyway? After all, this is actually one of the important roles of the local government to ensure that people's houses are not burned down, especially when the national commando is not around.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U78	Thank you. At our joint meetings, together with the Rescue Board's management and the Minister of the Interior, we have discussed the issue of rescue troops on several occasions, and we have also discussed how to boost volunteering. There's one of these right now, you could say, a very human glitch. Where there is currently even half, even if not enough equipped rescue command, it is not intended to say that it could also act voluntarily. As long as it is still possible to prove that there should be a professional commando on the ground, it will be held. In fact, this voluntary capacity will be revealed later. I think your proposal is very good. We have regular meetings on this subject on a regular basis, and I will certainly propose this to the Minister of the Interior. We have already considered that some resources must be foreseen for professional rescuers precisely to encourage volunteering in order to train volunteers; people must also have some skills to do with it. We have already discussed the need for resources and why not channel it through the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U79	Please, Mr Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, much has been said recently about administrative reform and its necessity or unnecessaryness, but very little has come to the media about the information that is currently taking place on the ground. I mean, what kind of processes are really going on in the counties? In Viljandi, for example, five or six local governments have been seriously planning their merger for a long time. Do you have any such information about how things are in other counties, are such voluntary accession processes currently taking place in another county?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U81	Yeah, they are. Our support programmes have also requested a huge amount of money for projects to carry out merger studies. This is quite common in Estonia, and it does not quite exceed the news threshold that some municipalities propose to join another municipality or several municipalities. Once it is rejected, it is usually said that we are discussing it. What is happening now in Hiiumaa is very happy. In Hiiumaa we can clearly see very high expectations for local governments to join. There are many of these initiatives. What has been another problem or failure there is that they want to join a larger area and that the proposed accession is made to several municipalities. If, for some reason, one of them doubts or says we postpone, we wait for the elections, the whole 'package' will fall apart. I have put the heads of government to heart that if, for example, five municipalities are negotiating accession and two are convinced that we have to go to the end, then we should go to the end with two. It's also a clear signal to the rest of us that some will be joining anyway. Then the choice is quite the opposite, either to go along or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U82	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U83	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You have repeatedly said that the ideal model for your administrative-territorial reform would be if there were rural municipalities of county size in Estonia, i.e. 15 municipalities and 5 large cities. My position is the opposite; I think it would be disastrous for the Estonian state. But today you said that the objective of regional policy is that people living in Estonia should have equal opportunities. Can you explain how the survival or creation of these rural municipalities of the size of the county would contribute to a level playing field everywhere? My mind tells me that the possibilities of a person living in a county centre, a future rural municipality centre, and the differences between people living in today's small municipalities centers will only increase as a result of this reform. But maybe I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U84	First of all, I would point out that the plan and draft I have proposed does not necessarily include one municipality. This is the case for smaller counties, but in the case of Ida-Viru, for example, it provides for different solutions and certainly also for Harjumaa. This is not necessarily the case. I am convinced that there should be a municipality in Hiiumaa, a small county, for example. I think that would be the best option for the giants. The question of how to ensure these equal opportunities. At the moment, the situation is that in some municipalities we simply do not have some opportunities for people. This has been pointed out to you here by the Chancellor of Justice, the Auditor General. If our municipalities were larger, more capable and ultimately better budgeted, they would also have a clear opportunity and a stronger moral obligation to offer these opportunities in the same way to everyone. After all, the question is not whether anything is going away, the question is whether, in the municipalities where certain benefits and services are currently being offered in a selective way, something that is coming from the law, something that is being offered and nothing is being offered, could we ensure that there is everything there, for example, in the county centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U85	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U86	Thank you, good Chairman. Dear Minister, On Monday evening, there was a group of people who ache their hearts over the issues of local government. There were members of the Riigikogu, scientists, representatives of local government associations. As far as this think tank is concerned, they were not very optimistic about this. I would like to remind you that, with regard to local road money, the coalition has put the bill of warlocks on the shelf, which deals with 15%, at least 15%, of the increase in road money going to local budgets. Yesterday, amendments to the Income Tax Act, etc., were voted out of the procedure. In 2009, you significantly, significantly and again significantly reduced the income base of local governments. Minister, I have this question for you: did the 2009 cut affect the livelihood of local authorities or do you think it had no effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U87	Thank you. The cut certainly had an impact on the livelihood of local governments. But the cuts were in other areas, and they were also affected. If you distinguish between local governments and the rest of the public sector, the rest of the state sector clearly reduced government spending more than local governments. Of course, there was a negative impact, and all the cuts had a negative impact. Fortunately, the income base of local governments is now recovering vigorously. Next year it will be bigger than it has been in any previous year since 2008. I believe that a year forward and then the revenue base is already "absolutely at the top of the ages." Little by little, we are trying to restore these funds by sector, if our budget allows it at all. For example, the same extra funding for local roads will increase by 40% in next year's budget proposal compared to this year. I'm sure I'd like it to grow even more, but you probably won't be able to put that kind of rise in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U88	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U89	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to argue a bit against Mr Gräzin, who said that the members of the Reform Party like people and the members of the Centre Party like money. We believe that money does not make anyone happy, and that is why the Centre Party has presented a good bill such as progressive income tax here in the Riigikogu. We think that those who earn more should also pay more for society. But the Reform Party is not only a party that loves money, but they are mad at money, because how...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U90	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U91	I'm almost done. How else will it be explained that only six million Estonian kroons will be spent in the state budget next year on the administration of the land tax for homeowners? Honourable Minister of Regional Affairs! You will work with local authorities to solve this problem. Where will you spend the six million Estonian kroons?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U92	Indeed, such a specific budget line cannot be commented on. I don't know if you mean a civil society, or if you mean a public institution in the state budget. If you answer about this money, I am certainly among those people who think that taxes are still too high in Estonia and it would be good if they could be further humiliated. I'm very happy that the underground tax disappears. I think this is a very good step towards reducing the real tax burden on the Estonian people, which is clearly too high.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U93	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I had the impression that Inara Luis probably didn't get the answer to her question, but that's what she's gonna decide. I'll ask you a little bit about another area, if you'll excuse me. I am very interested in your attitude to Mr Aaviksoo's plan to keep 54 or 60 upper secondary schools. What effect do you think this would have on regional life and its development, and whether or not the upper secondary school in one area is a centre of attraction?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U95	Upper secondary school is certainly a centre of attraction, for example, in the form of additional jobs. The question is that if we have a decrease in the number of people at all, if we have a decrease in the number of children, it is clear that it is simply not reasonable, to say the least, to have a separate upper secondary school for every ten children, from the point of view of these children themselves. When it comes to local governments, it is clear that we have so far also upper secondary schools in using money to organise local life, the issue of local governments and responsibility for duplication, irrational, meaningless competition too much. After all, the proposals for nationalisation of upper secondary schools are a good example of how, when local governments are very fragmented, the opposite pressure arises when we are nationalising, nationalising, nationalising. I am not a very strong supporter of nationalisation. Upper secondary schools are perhaps one area in which this should be considered, but we cannot infinitely deal with the small size of municipalities and the solution is that we take everything into the country one after the other. So this pressure is increasing. With regard to the number proposed by your stated Minister Aaviksoo, the question is that one thing is what would be the optimal number of upper secondary schools in terms of the number of Estonian residents. The second issue, however, is the geographical characteristics that we inevitably need to take into account so that good upper secondary school education can be obtained in each area of activity. I think it is certainly a good education, a quality of education more important than whether the school is 15 or 30 kilometres from home.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, As our time is coming to an end, I would like to thank the Minister for Regional Affairs and to finish addressing this issue. I would like to thank the members of the Riigikogu once again for asking questions and answering questions from the members of the government. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U97	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. A colleague of the speech chair, Priit Toobali, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U98	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Me and eight other members of the Centre Party have an inquiry to report to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. This concerns the family medical system in Viljandimaa. Recently, it is becoming increasingly difficult to find family doctors in rural areas. The 2010 National Audit Office's review of the use and preservation of state assets shows that the lack of family doctors is becoming a common problem. However, the role of family doctors is particularly important in the country, as other health care options are not so available. In the coming decades, the problem is getting worse, as more family doctors reach retirement age when young family doctors come. For example, on 1 November the family doctor left his job in Kõpu rural municipality in Viljandi County and no applications were received for finding a new doctor. Kõpu municipality has supported the position of family doctor in every way, covering heating and computer maintenance costs and paying electricity bills and partly for inventory. The doctoral work in Kõpu is complicated by the high proportion of the elderly, the small list and the large distances that often become impenetrable during large rains and floods. The responsibilities of the family doctor in Kõpu region are currently performed by a doctor working in Viljandi. The residents of Kõpu rural municipality must travel to Viljandi for first-level care five days a week, but it is expensive and takes a lot of time. We have five questions for the Minister of Social Affairs, based on the example of the family doctor in Viljandimaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U99	Thank you. Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U100	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, In general, I'm not in the habit of sitting in an ant nest with a naked ass, but right now I'm forced to do it. In particular, we have completed an inquiry into the issue of the VEB Fund by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. As far as the VEB Fund is concerned, some judgments have entered into force. We are very interested in what is really going to become of this VEB Fund thing, and we have four questions for the Minister on this. I frankly and frankly admit that only seven members of the Central Party Group have dared to sit in this anthole when signing an inquiry; the others chose not to support this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U101	I have received two inquiries on behalf of the Bureau. If they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, I shall forward them to the addressees immediately. Here's the news. Firstly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered a member of the Social Democratic Party of Mart Meri; secondly, the Board of the Riigikogu has approved a member of the Cultural Committee of Mart Meri. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Social Welfare Act, initiated on 7 November, Leading Commission on Social Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development," presented on 7 November, the Committee on Monetary Affairs; thirdly, in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. a draft law amending the Prosecutor's Office Act, initiated on 7 November, commission of the Constitutional Commission; fourthly, the Estonian Central Party Group. a draft law amending the Law on National Family Benefits, initiated on 8 November, by the Committee on Social Affairs; fifthly, the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. a Draft Act on the Organisation of Health Services and the Amendment of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, launched on 8 November, Committee on Social Affairs. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the regional minister Siim Valmar Kiisler. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 89 delegates registered as present, 12 missing. Ladies and gentlemen, There is one clarification on the agenda. The eighth item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law 88 on amendment of the Gambling Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws, and in the course of which Toomas Tõniste, member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U102	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of Bill No 5 of the Probative Model Act, Patent Act, Industrial Property Law Foundations Act and State Fees Act, initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. Let us now go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the utility model law, the patent law, the law on the basis of the legal arrangements for industrial property and the state fee law initiated by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Please vote! 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U103	We will begin the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Acknowledgment of the State's summary report for the financial year 2010. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sester, from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U104	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby give an overview of the discussion of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Accepting the State's summary report for the financial year 2010' before the second reading. It was on the Commission's agenda on 25 October. No amendments were received within the deadline. I would remind you that the first reading was on 18 October when, in addition to the debate on the summary report, we listened to the report by Auditor General Mihkel Oviir on the use and preservation of state assets. The Riigikogu has received an overview of the government's activities in 2010, as well as information from the National Audit Office that the State's consolidated annual report for 2010 correctly reflects the state's financial position in a significant part, in accordance with Estonian good accounting practice, including the economic results and cash flows of the completed reporting period. It's okay. The state's most important economic transactions have been carried out in accordance with the State Budget Act and the State Budget Act 2010 and its amending laws. The National Audit Office's observations on financial reporting have also been taken up for information, which will help with the development of the state's financial management system. As I said, no amendments have been received. As a result of the above and pursuant to § 48 (6) of the State Budget Act, the Finance Committee decided by consensus to put the draft on the agenda on 9 November, today, to conclude the second reading and to put the draft to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U105	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U106	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision is legally all right, but it doesn't mean that the final figures come together nicely, that our budget is all top-down. We are well aware that ministries and institutions in their area of government have not always complied with the requirements of the State Budget Act. For example, public authorities have made investments out of the budget for management expenditure, but have covered management costs out of the funds for investments. This is a clear violation of the law. The State Budget Act prohibits public authorities from taking loans, using financial leases and taking on other long-term liabilities, unless this is provided for in the state budget. Many public authorities conclude lease contracts for office equipment and vehicle leases under financial lease conditions, which are not provided for by law. In recent years, contracts have also started to be concluded without interruption. In conclusion, the State currently has an unbroken lease obligation of EUR 4 billion. I would also like to draw attention to the procurement procedures last year. We know that the legal tender procedure was not organised at the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Ministry of Culture. In some cases the distribution of the procurement is contrary to the law, but it occurred in the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture. Often, the public procurement process was not properly documented, in the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. In some cases, no public procurement reports were submitted. There were other comments, one of the most important of which is the lack of transparency of investments, but one can also mention others. Therefore, purely technically, this decision could be accepted, but if we look at the substance of the matter, we would support the massive violations that occurred last year in the use of the budget money. The Estonian Central Party Group cannot support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U107	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. There are no amendments to the draft decision and we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to approve the State's summary report for the financial year 2010 91. Please vote! 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U108	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union initiated by the Government of the Republic and the 2010 amendments to the Convention. Mr Olga Sõtnik, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was held at the second reading of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 25 October. No amendments were tabled within the specified deadline, and the Commission decided by consensus to send the draft Act on the ratification of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and Acts amending the Convention 2010 to the Riigikogu plenary session for a second reading on 9 November and to propose to the Assembly the adoption of the draft as 60 laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U110	Thank you very much. There are no questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. As there are no amendments to the draft, we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft Act on the ratification of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union initiated by the Government of the Republic and the 2010 Amendment to the Convention 60. Please vote! 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U111	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 111 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and Jersey, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and Jersey. The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage investment, ensure equal treatment of persons and eliminate double taxation, which may arise as a result of the combined effect of the laws of two countries. It will also help to create additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud. Estonia has a similar agreement with 47 countries. Each double taxation agreement shall be based on an OECD Model Agreement, as amended by agreement between the Parties during the negotiations. Jersey is an addictor of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland with an independent tax jurisdiction. Since it is not an independent territory in international relations, it cannot be regarded as a State and the terms "resident State' and "source State' also apply to dependent territory in the explanatory memorandum. The agreement between Estonia and Jersey follows the direction of Estonia's tax treaty policy. The principle is as broad a right to tax residents as possible. The dividend, interest and royalty may be taxed only by the party whose beneficial owner is resident. Onward: wide-ranging exchange of information. The exchange of information is not limited either to the residents of the contracting parties or to the taxes under the contract. The Contracting Party may not refuse to exchange information solely because it does not need certain tax information for its own account. Similarly, a party may not refuse to provide information solely because the holder of the information is a credit institution, another representative of a financial institution, a trustee or an asset manager. In order to eliminate double taxation, Estonia uses the exemption method. This means that if an Estonian resident receives income from Jersey which has been taxed in accordance with the Treaty in Jersey, it will no longer be taxed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U113	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I now call on Kalev Kallo, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U114	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 24 October. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as the initiator's representative. We learned that the aim of the draft is to promote investment by ratifying the double taxation treaty, to ensure equal treatment of persons and to eliminate double taxation, which may result from the combined effect of the laws of two countries. It will also help to create additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud. Now some of the questions that were put by the Commission. For example, several analogous agreements have already been ratified. We learned that 48 agreements have entered into force and 50 agreements have been signed. There was also an interest in Jersey and it was explained to us that it was between France and England and that it was essentially an addicted territory of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. UK power applies there on certain issues, such as defence and foreign policy, but the tax system is independent. We also learned that the general rate of taxation for legal persons is generally 0%, only for financial services it is 10% and for real estate services it is 20%. The income tax on a natural person is 20%. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on 9 November, i.e. today, to close the first reading and set the deadline of 14 November at 18. Decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U115	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 111. November 14th at 6 p.m. First reading of bill 111 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U116	We will begin the first reading of the draft Act 112, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore, signed in Singapore on 18 September 2006, amending the convention to prevent double taxation and to prevent tax evasion. Once again, I would like to ask for a presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has submitted a draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion. The Agreement between Estonia and Singapore has been in force since 27 December 2007. The Agreement includes, together with the Agreement, a Protocol which has entered into force, specifying some of the provisions of the Agreement. A new protocol is needed to extend the scope of the exchange of information provided for in the Agreement. After entry into force, the new Protocol shall form an integral part of the Agreement and shall remain in force as long as the Agreement is in force. Under the new Protocol, the exchange of information will not be limited in the future either to residents of the Contracting Parties or to the taxes under the Contracting Parties. A State may not refuse to exchange information solely because it does not need certain tax information for its own account. Nor may the State refuse to provide information solely because the holder of the information is a credit institution, another financial institution, a representative, a trustee or an asset manager. The amendment is based on the amendments made to the OECD Model Agreement Information Exchange Article in 2007, as well as the pressure exerted by the OECD on Singapore to exchange bank secrecy information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U118	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions for you. I call on Mr Stalnukhin, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, on the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U119	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on this draft took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 24 October this year. A decision was made to place the draft on the agenda on 9 November, to close the first reading and to set the deadline of 14 November at 6 p.m. for the submission of amendments. All decisions were taken by consensus. During the debate, the substance of the bill was heard, but since the Minister of Finance has just spoken about it, I will not repeat it. Just one question raised: why is there a specific date in the title? In reply, it was clarified that the indication of this date is of particular importance for Singapore. At the end of the meeting, we made the decisions that I have already spoken about.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U120	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. No questions for you either. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 112 amendments on 14 November 2011 at 6 p.m. First reading of Bill 112 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U121	The next item is the first reading of Bill 114 on Amending the State Budget Act 2011 initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! First of all, I would point out that this is precisely the law amending the State Budget Act, not the additional budget. In 2011, revenue has been better than forecast. The prognosis has been conservative and the government follows the principle that higher than expected revenues should not imply cost increases. Since we are now also richer by experience, for which revenue turned out to be lower than expected, it is worth highlighting this sometimes. This year's amendment to the State Budget Act is much smaller than the previous one. This shows that the organisation of the legal framework implemented in 2011 has produced the expected results and that there are better ways of managing the cash flow operationally within the year. The amendments are essentially of a technical nature and aim to bring costs into line with economic content. The amendments to the draft act specify the costs incurred by ministries for the current year. The total revenue and expenditure of the budget shall not change. I will then give an overview of the major changes. The redeployment of the cost lines of the state budget affects all administrative and administrative areas except the Office of the National Audit Office, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court, the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of Regional Affairs, who did not submit amendments. The changes will increase investment by EUR 2.2 million, operating costs will cost EUR 1.5 million, provisions will decrease by EUR 605000 and other costs by EUR 112000. This year there is another significant difference compared to the two previous years. With this year's amendment, only one additional cost transfer option has been added. The time taken for the procurement of the Ministry of Agriculture's allocation has increased. This means that there will be no additional burden on the budget for next year that is already critical. This certainly must not lead to unreasonable costs this year, i.e. the end of the year cost rally. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U123	Thank you very much, Minister. No questions for the waitress. I would now like to ask my colleague, Mr Sester, from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U124	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the State Budget Act 2011 was discussed at the Commission on 15 October. Kaie Koskaru, Head of the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft as a representative of the initiator. The Minister has already given you a comprehensive overview of the objectives of the draft. I repeat, however, that the aim of the draft is to change the 2011 budget due to the need to better achieve the targets set by the various public authorities, given the changed circumstances which were difficult to foresee when drawing up the budget. I will give a brief overview of the questions and observations that have been made in the Commission. One observation was that only one line, which is a very good indicator, is additionally identified as transferable in terms of cost portability. It is positive that many institutions and ministries have not submitted any changes at all, such as the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Regional Affairs, etc. Interested in income support. The information was that the number of recipients of income support has stabilised and therefore some money has been released. The channelling of available resources can also be seen in this document. EUR 250000 will be allocated to the customer service points of the institutions of the Ministry of Social Affairs to ensure accessibility for disabled persons, EUR 0.5 million will be available for the purchase of prostheses, orthopaedics and other aids for persons with disabilities. EUR 250000 shall be allocated to ambulances to purchase 10 medical devices for small islands and peripheral areas. There was also an interest in the changes concerning the committee on the supervision of political parties' funding, what are they? A representative of the Ministry gave an overview that these were between-the-book increases. For economic costs, money is directed towards the acquisition of a web solution. Another question was asked about the EUR 1.2 million change in MKM: what does this mean? It was explained that the first multifunctional icebreaker was originally planned to be designed and that EUR 640000 had been allocated for this purpose. Due to the postponement of the plan, the amounts will be diverted, e.g. EUR 194200 for water transport to Harju County Government, Leppneeme and Kelnas Ports, etc. All decisions were taken by the Commission by consensus, no dispute arose. The decisions were: to put the draft on the agenda on 9 November, today, to close the first reading and set the deadline for tabling amendments at 15 a.m. on 11 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U125	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. There are no questions. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. I will set the deadline for submitting 114 amendments. a at 15.00 a.m. on 11 November. First reading of Bill 114 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U126	The next item is the first reading of the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, the laws relating to the transfer of the Courts' Accounting Centre to the area of government of the Ministry of Finance, the State Budget Act and the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws related thereto. To give a presentation, please to the Minister for Finance of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U127	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The draft law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary of Estonia, the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, the laws relating to the transfer of the Courts' Accounting Centre to the area of government of the Ministry of Finance, the State Budget Act and the Government of the Republic Act and related amendments to other laws is now before you at first reading. The most important financial issue in this draft is the consolidation of the reserves of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund. This draft empowers the Treasury to carry out new tasks. I will not dwell on this matter. Next, this bill extends the validity of the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of wages relating to the average salary of Estonia by one year. This will result in savings of 2.53 million euros in the state budget. The amendment does not concern the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic. The Court Accounting Centre, which is located within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, is transferred to the area of administration of the Ministry of Finance. The main task of the Centre is to organise financial staffing and wage accounting and the accounting of state claims for the Ministry of Justice and the institutions of its administration. It is necessary to amend the laws in which the Centre is referred to in order to transfer the accounting centre. The name of the centre will be changed to the State Support Services Centre. As the new name suggests, on the basis of this authority, we give other areas of government the opportunity to waive the obligation to develop the accounting system and staff. Instead, we offer the opportunity to agree and receive quality management information from the centre. Initially, we have entered into an agreement with the Ministry of Justice, but other ministries have also shown their interest in the transfer of accounting support services. This initiative is a logical continuation of the consolidation project of support services that we manage. The most significant changes to the current laws are 11 in total, as regards the need to harmonise interministerial competences in the field of intellectual property. According to the current laws, the field of intellectual property is mainly divided between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Under the regulation of the draft law, the Ministry of Justice will have powers of coordination and regulation of intellectual property. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U128	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Let's start with my colleague, Kadri Samson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U129	Thank you. Minister of Finance! This draft is a so-called draft cluster law. Reading a long title even brought a smile on your gloomy face, I guess it seemed tragic. Would you explain to the Riigikogu: as far as we know, the Board of the Riigikogu sent this package back to the government, because this is not the way to change the laws. What was the great need behind this because you decided to tie 23 laws into one package instead of dealing with them properly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U130	I do not know that this bill was sent back from the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu has kindly accepted it and dealt with it. The main consideration why these individual provisions of the different laws are to be dealt with together is the desire to save your precious time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U131	Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U132	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. What kind of cashiers were you talking about at the beginning of your speech? I took out the bill, but I don't have glasses, but I don't find a health insurance fund or an unemployment fund in it. Am I looking at the wrong paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U133	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U134	Now, if you look again, maybe you'll find the word 'State Treasury' in the original explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U135	From the same cashiers, but not from the inside. We've been arguing about this until we're bored, and I'm not going to touch it, but I just want to ask you a purely formal point of view. We now have this situation that part of this topic was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in relation to draft 100, which concerns the amendment of the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, but part of this issue is in today's draft, which has been discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Why is that? Would it not be reasonable to concentrate this on a single subject, one understanding of the matter, as the Minister has it, in a single draft and to deal with it in this way? This would be the law amending the State Budget Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and would be discussed in the right committee, or the Finance Committee. Why don't we do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U136	Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U137	I did not deal with the law of that name here, as you said, but in general we will certainly take into account your wise tips and the criticisms that were made about the co-operation procedure. The Riigikogu has decided to change its practices. For many years, this practice has been appropriate, but if it has been decided in the meantime that it should be done differently, then the government will certainly be very obedient and cooperative.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U138	Thank you. Dear Minister, The Constitutional Commission worked quite hard on this cluster law, also considering the possibility of dismantling it into different elements and bringing it to the Riigikogu as such. Time pressure did not allow this to happen well, but the bill has been presented in a modified form. The part about the President's salary has been changed at the President's request, and you have read it differently in my opinion. There were also certain technical inconsistencies that the Commission was dealing with. I wondered whether the Minister of Constitutional Affairs really knew that the Constitutional Committee brought this draft before the Riigikogu in a modified form. And in the future, can it be assumed that the Government of the Republic will bring such different entities to the Riigikogu as separate draft laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U139	The presentation of this draft in this form was a decision of the Government. Since there has been a slight change, of course, I know, and that is what I touched on in my speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U140	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U141	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I was wondering if you really know all the sections of this cluster law. Can you claim that all these paragraphs were developed in the Ministry of Finance or that you actually collected proposals from different ministries and simply defend this bill because of your post?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U142	Well, that's all, I guess, mostly the Ministry of Finance developed. But the Ministry of Justice has also played an important role. There's a circle of your own government. We still know what we're doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U143	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I ask you to explain such a thing: where should the savings of time that we seem to achieve by reviewing cluster laws come from? Ideally, a member of the Riigikogu should delve into every point in the draft cluster law that he will vote on. Or do you assume that if it's all in one folder, we won't?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U145	The best way to save time is certainly not to ask one question dozens of times and not to use the non-legal definition of what you are doing here to win each other. But let's move on. This bill has been presented as such and accepted by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U146	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U147	Thank you. Dear Minister, In terms of time savings, we might not be discussing this here at all, so that cannot be an argument. But I would remind you that in the autumn, Mr President raised this issue so that such draft laws, or cluster laws, would not be brought here, and Mrs Ergma, President of the Riigikogu, has also made a statement on this. Even now, he was shaking his head on what you said. Why are you playing such a roller and answering so arrogantly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U148	No further questions. Thank you, Minister of Finance. I call on Mr Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U149	Read my previous answers in the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this long-named bill twice: 25 October and 7 November. He discussed it at length and in depth, dissecting both the content and the method of reviewing the draft law. First of all, the substance of the bill. As the Minister of Finance has already pointed out, the package itself consists of amendments to a very large number of laws, but there are only four substantive points that can be highlighted, a substantive issue. The rest are adjustments of a technical nature, improvements resulting from these substantive issues. The first important point is that the aim of the amendments is to postpone by one year the expected increase in the salary of the state's senior officials, i.e. to extend the validity of the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of wages relating to the average salary in Estonia by one year. This change, which was mentioned, is that the President of the Republic will be added to this list at the request of the President of the Republic. This means that the rise in the salary of the President of the Republic will also be postponed for a year, as will the Government of the Republic and all other senior civil servants. The second point in substance is that the state institution in the area of government of the Ministry of Justice and its administration, called the Courts' Accounting Centre, is transferred to the area of government of the Ministry of Finance. The third point is the consolidation of the funds of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund under the Ministry of Finance in order to improve the efficiency of the use of public money through the Treasury. The fourth substantive change concerns the coordination of intellectual property issues and legislative competences between ministries. The essence is that everything related to intellectual property and authorship will be transferred from the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to the Ministry of Justice as the respective competent authority. It's about jurisdiction. From an organisational point of view, this involves the transfer of the Patent Office to the Ministry of Justice. The rest of the changes to this package are technical clarifications, word changes and so on. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that it was in agreement with these substantive proposals. We also discussed this cluster method, which has been discussed a great deal here. We know that this method has been criticised by the President of the Republic, the President of the Riigikogu has drawn attention to this, in the Committee on Culture this issue was raised, and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the honourable opposition has also highlighted it. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also considered that this method was not a good one. This practice cannot be considered right and should be avoided in the future. In summary, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to present the draft as amended at first reading, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set in i. November 14th, 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U151	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. There's a question for you too. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U152	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Whether the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not have a desire or a urge to create a precedent and to put this package into four drafts by topic, so that there could be any point of contact. Today, things are very distant in themselves and affect very different groups of people. We still have to look a little further out this hall window and the door. If any ordinary citizen or journalist wishes to examine our bill, he must not get into a backside where he can interpret something very differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U153	Yes, it was already said that we discussed this issue in the Commission. But Andres Herkel also pointed out in his question that there is great time pressure behind the current procedure. The logical order in which matters are dealt with should be this: first, the Riigikogu reviews drafts relating to the state budget and then the State Budget Act follows as a primary priority. What's done? 100 and 101 of the preclaims have been raised, for example, by amending the law on the prosecutor's office and, on 7 November, the day before yesterday, we gave it to the Riigikogu through my person as a separate draft law. We considered the pros and cons, whether to go this way to lift these individual pieces out and process the drafts one by one, but we found that this'style cleanness and regularity' would lead to a very serious organisational and procedural confusion, but the work will probably end with the same result. Within the time that we have to use, this effort would not be viable. However, this does not mean that such practice should not be resisted. Things should be dealt with in a normal way in the future, as you indicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U154	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Without wanting to accept or to consider it right to do so, a statement or a statement on one issue will force me to ask you a question. Allegedly, there is nothing in common in the laws that they want to amend and which are set in the same line. They don't have a common denominator. Am I on the right path when I say that the joint denominator of these drafts is the 2012 budget of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U156	Yeah, that's the common denominator. There's a connection. However, I think that the right method would be to deal with matters in such a way that the sectoral committees deal with the areas that fall within their competence. This would ensure greater regularity. We have discovered a few technical errors that are easy to miss with such a large package. If sectoral committees were to deal with drafts, the possibility of such errors would be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U157	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U158	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In fact, I do not understand this argument of time pressure. The budget is essentially a routine exercise and it is known when it will take place. You stated in your reply that, although we are adopting this law now, this does not mean that we will not oppose such cluster laws in the future. How is this opposition supposed to work? Isn't next year going to be the same time pressure?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U159	By time pressure, I meant a situation where the bill was already on the table in this house. However, drafts are also prepared and the pressure of time can be avoided, above all, by resolving possible disputes of this kind that go to committees and so on. The preparatory phase was probably weak in this case. This needs to be addressed in order to ensure that the necessary work is carried out during the preparatory phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U160	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U161	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Let's just say that we are in a situation where we do not have to do politics first and foremost, because I think this is a very serious problem. As Chairman of your Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and perhaps also as a passionate advocate of the parliamentary regime, do you share my view that our government authorities sometimes fail to comply with the law within a reasonable period of time? They get into trouble all the time and force Parliament to make decisions in a hurry. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U162	I am not able to comment on your assessment, but my explanation for this particular development is that apparently the financial people approached the problem from the perspective of the monetary people and they did not see its constitutional and legal, practical side, that things should be dealt with in a procedurally correct way. I can't explain it any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U163	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to invite my colleague, Deniss Borodichi, from the Centre Party Group, to the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U164	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Two weeks ago, I was talking about the draft package, i.e. the so-called cluster laws, that was in connection with the bill of 100. Now we have another example of how different issues can be combined into a single package, a single bill that concerns more than 20 laws. I am not going to repeat what I said last time about the threat to the quality of legislation, as these issues are not really related to each other, but I would like to emphasise a few moments. In my opinion, all the drafts must be dealt with in Parliament on a sectoral basis. In the case of a vote in the case of the adoption of specific decisions, it must be possible to do so on a case-by-case basis. If we look at the draft we are discussing today, if I am not in favour of consolidating the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund, but, for example, I agree with the part concerning the salary of senior civil servants and support the amendments to the Copyright Law, how can I then vote? How can I exercise my right to vote on each particular subject separately when there are 20 amendments to the law packed together? I can't! We have also discussed this at length in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I very much hope to Mr Maruste, Chairman of our committee, that no more such draft laws will come to Parliament. I'm sure he'll stand for it. However, as far as the draft under discussion is concerned, I believe that we must reject it at first reading. Because, in fact, we want the Centre Party Group to want, and I think that many others do too, so that we can take a stand on every subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U165	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading, we must vote it through. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Central Party to reject the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic, the law on the salaries of senior civil servants, the laws relating to the transfer of the Courts' Accounting Centre to the area of government of the Ministry of Finance, the State Budget Act and the draft law amending the Government of the Republic's law and related other laws 101 at first reading. Please vote! 30 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 50 votes against and one abstention. The proposal was not supported. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the 101 draft law. November 14th at 6 p.m. First reading of bill 101 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U166	We will begin the first reading of the 88th draft law amending the Gambling Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Gambling Act has been in force for three years, but the rapid change in the sector is forcing this regulation to be updated. The draft harmonises the terminology of the law and clarifies the provisions concerning technical requirements for the organisation of gambling activities, the procedures for reporting, the relations between supervisors and organisers. The requirement that the server used for the organisation of remote gambling should be located in Estonia, which has proved unreasonable in practice, is abolished. From now on, a server is allowed to be located in a country that has acceded to the Convention against Computer Crime or whose competent authorities cooperate with the Tax and Customs Board and the Estonian Financial Intelligence Unit in the field of gambling supervision. The terms 'game tournament' and the tournament' are specified in order to distinguish between classic tournament and tournament. In order to better ensure the integrity of the organiser and the fulfilment of liquidity requirements, an amendment is introduced whereby the organiser's authorisation automatically becomes invalid when the organiser is appointed as a temporary insolvency practitioner. For the same purpose, the law on reorganisation introduces an amendment which excludes the application of the reorganisation procedure to a gambling operator. Like land casinos, there is a requirement for gambling sites on ships to display a warning that gambling can be addictive. Contact details of the organisations advising addicts must also be available. Following the launch of the electronic accounting and control system on 1 January 2012, the reporting arrangements will be amended accordingly. Provisions determining the exact composition of the data to be transmitted through the electronic accounting and control system are removed from the Act and the authorisation is given for the establishment of a list by a regulation of the Minister of Finance. In practice, it may be necessary to change these requirements as a result of the addition of new games. With the amendment of the Advertising Act, the right to inform the public of the size of the winning fund can be clearly stated in order to prevent disputes between the Estonian Loto, and with the amendment of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board has the right to conduct misdemeanour proceedings in the event of the organisation of gambling without authorisation or authorisation. On the date of entry into force of the draft, we offer 1 January 2012. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U168	You have questions too. Let's start with my colleague, Kadri Samson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U169	Thank you. Minister of Finance! When the Gambling Tax Act was last amended, three years ago, certain rules were created for distance gambling providers. It is now clear that there is at least one organiser of remote gambling in Estonia who does not comply with the rules laid down in the law. There is now an amendment that will make the law more favourable to the game provider. Is there a lot of lobbying back here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U170	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U171	Do you know if you've been lobbied? I'm not. I don't know what it's like to make it cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U172	Minister, thank you very much. It's going to come from your ministry, and you're probably behind it, too. My question is: how do you justify the waiver of the requirement that the server used to organize remote gambling be here in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U173	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Now I would like to ask for a presentation of Mr Tõniste, member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm sorry! Colleagues Jüri Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U174	Shame on that story! I will not answer such vile questions. Keeping the server in Estonia is not doing anyone a favor. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U175	Thank you. I have a procedural question for the reason that I was very disturbed by the very arrogance that a member of the government has now expressed about a member of the Riigikogu. As a simple member of the Riigikogu, I would like to point out that the representative of the Government of the Republic should not respond to a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U176	I want to tell everyone that in this hall, we all have to be polite. I would now like to ask Mr Tõniste, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U177	Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Head Specialist of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance Taivo Põrk presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft. I will bring out five issues that have been discussed in the debate. Firstly, since it is also planned to amend the Gambling Tax Act, would it be appropriate to combine it with the draft we are currently discussing? In response, it was clarified that the Ministry plans to amend the Gambling Tax Act in 2012. Taxes are dealt with separately and then dealt with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Secondly, is there an additional burden for businesses in terms of changes in electronic accounting and changes in the names of data fields in the information system? Answer: The investment will pay off in the long term, as it will make it easier for businesses to provide data. Thirdly, how are the restrictions on entry to casinos and the obligations of the relevant warnings on land and at sea regulated? So far, they've been different. Answer: The current law will be amended so that organisers at sea will have to put forward warnings that gambling can be addictive. Players will also be identified. To this end, equipment reading the boarding pass shall be installed in slot machines. Playing is only possible if the age limit requirements are met and is not listed on the self-exclusion list. Players are also checked on the basis of an on-board card to prevent the boarding pass being given to another person. Once the draft law enters into force, the companies' accounts will be simplified, as will national supervision and control. Fourthly, how can the existence of a license for gambling operators be verified? For example, Unibet's advertising was brought to the media. In Estonia, information about such licences is public. In the case of companies not registered in Estonia, problems may arise if only a brand is advertised. Only brand exhibiting is not prohibited, it is forbidden to refer to gambling (tricks, money, cards), to the possibility of winning. The Consumer Protection Board is competent to supervise the matter and to enforce the penalties imposed by law. Fifth: how effective has remote gambling control, including control of servers, been? The answer was that the purpose of this draft is to protect both the consumer and the legal market. Currently, it is estimated that around 3/4 of distance gambling is legal and tax receipts are guaranteed. As the draft concerns a relatively wide range of economic operators and regulates important areas, and there is not much pressure in the implementation of the draft, the Commission considered it necessary to set a longer deadline for the submission of amendments. By consensus, it was decided to send the draft law 88 amending the Gambling Act initiated by the Government and the other laws, as amended, together with the amended explanatory memorandum to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 9 November, to propose to the Assembly that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at two months, i.e. to submit them by 18:00 on 9 January 2012 at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs dealt with this draft at its meeting on 25 October. [[In the mess hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U179	Ladies and gentlemen, One moment, please! Minister of Finance, please come sit down here. Please continue! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U180	Thank you very much, Mr Tõniste. There are no questions for you. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. I will set the deadline for tabling 88 amendments on 9 January 2012 at 6 p.m. First reading of the bill is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U181	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The government wishes to make customs controls more effective, to clarify the rules for creating a free zone and to facilitate the transfer of confiscated cultural goods. The most important changes to the law are as follows: First of all, a legal basis is created for the use of an automatic customs identification system on roads close to the internal border, such as Ikla and Valga, and in large ports open for international traffic. Currently, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board uses equipment to detect vehicles in the customs control zone, but the change also gives the right to use the system inland. The current practice of the Tax and Customs Board shows that the use of automated identification systems at border crossing points is an effective means of preventing smuggling. The data to be collected shall be non-personalised, the system shall only record the time, place, registration number of the vehicle and the nationality of the vehicle. Secondly, the draft regulates the use of customs scanning equipment for the control of goods, passengers, baggage and vehicles. The screening process is part of a risk analysis and cannot be considered as a screening exercise in accordance with international practice, as goods packages and luggage are not opened and the vehicle is not subject to revision. The problem arose in the dispute that reached the Supreme Court, where the court interpreted the customs law in such a way that the customs authorities at the airport do not have the right to pass the passenger's luggage through the x-ray equipment if the passenger is not present. This is neither the point of the law nor the practice of other Member States of the European Union. In addition, the regulation establishing a free zone is supplemented by a rule whereby a free zone may be established in the immediate vicinity of a port, a air station or a railway station or any other transport node situated at the border of the customs territory of the Community. Norm excludes the creation of a free zone inland, which would complicate customs controls and increase administrative burden. The same provision was included in the Estonian Customs Code before Estonia entered the European Union. The free zones already created are not covered by the provisions of Muuga, Sillamäe, Paldiski and Valga. Fourthly, according to the law in force, the customs authorities confiscate the value of art in the event of import and export without authorisation. In particular, significant quantities have in recent years attempted illegally to transfer icons across the border. As of November last year, they had been confiscated by customs and stored at 128, currently with an even higher number. According to the law, cultural goods can only be transferred to museums. As in practice museums have encountered problems with the adoption of icons, the draft extends the circle of recipients of the cultural goods confiscated and may subsequently transfer the objects to the body designated by the Minister of Culture. One such institution is the National Heritage Board, whose basic activities include resolving the issue of cultural findings. The law could enter into force on 1 January 2012. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U183	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U184	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Section 1 of the draft law also includes the screening of postal items. Could you please enlighten me in the sense that there is a separate scanning of each letter or a mail bag lit through? And with what purpose is it done to find something in a letter or a mail bag? Basically, it is also possible to identify the text by illuminating the message.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U185	That's the kind of question I find difficult to answer. It is probably possible to do all kinds of hogs with a good will, but it is still a risk management that postal items are passed through the X-ray and checked, and there are no certain goods in them. I'm sure no one's dealing with the letter text. I think that these devices do not make it possible to distinguish the text. But just in case, my answer will be hesitant, maybe you'll remind me of that question before you read the second one.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U186	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I now invite a colleague from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Jaan Õunapuu, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U187	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Colleagues! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 25 October. In the committee, Minister Ligi spoke about the changes, and Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy, and Advisor Eve-Ly Kübard, were also present. I am not going to go over what the Minister has already talked about, namely to clarify the amendments to this draft. I will only inform you of the questions raised by the Members of the Commission. Some, which may be of interest to you, I'll read from this remote control, and I'll get the answers. The first question was the radius of the national border to which the automatic detection system would be applied. The answer was that near the border crossings within a radius of about 50 m on both sides of the border. Interested in cargo screening procedures. In response, it was explained that the driver exits the car during the scanning process and that trains will not be illuminated when the driver is there. A small discussion was raised as to whether the initial examination was a review or not. According to the bill, this is not the case, but according to one Supreme Court ruling, this is the case. I think that if there is a conflict with the Supreme Court ruling, we can still discuss it in this Chamber before the second reading. The lawyers will say their final opinion on this in the near future. Another fundamental question that arose in the Commission. The system has been in place since 2009 and the question arose as to whether it has so far taken place without a legislative basis. In response, it was clarified that under the current law, the Tax and Customs Board has the right to take measures to ensure the legality of the border crossing of goods within the customs control zone. The current Customs Act does not exactly regulate the use of the system at the southern border of Estonia, i.e. at the border with Latvia, and the purpose of this draft is to implement a uniform system throughout the administrative scope, i.e. at all border crossings of the country. The Commission's decision was as follows: to send the draft law amending the Customs Act initiated by the Government to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the first reading on 9 November, i.e. today the decision was consensual; to propose to the assembly to stop the draft 84 first reading; this decision was also consensual; and to set ten working days for the amendments. They must therefore be submitted by 12 noon on 23 November. This decision was also consensual. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-09_U188	Thank you very much, Mr Jaan Apple Tree. There are no questions. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting 84 amendments. a on 23 November, at 12 noon. Bill 84's first reading is over and our agenda is exhausted. Thank you very much, everyone. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.23 p.m.
