ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the sixth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, on behalf of the Centre Party Group. In the review of the utilisation and preservation of state assets, the National Audit Office pointed out that the reserves of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund until 2019 are sufficient to cover the shortage of health care funding, but not longer. The healthcare system will then have to be financed further either from the state budget or by increasing people's own participation. The audit on the sustainability of the Estonian hospital network published in 2010 clearly showed that there are not enough patients or doctors to maintain the current hospital network, not even the money to invest in buildings and equipment. In response to the National Audit Office, the Minister of Social Affairs pointed out that it has been decided to direct the restructuring of the hospital network with investments and that hospitals have taken certain steps. The Minister promised that in the near future a meeting would be scheduled with all hospital executives. According to the National Audit Office, the Ministry has developed the concept of optimising the hospital network, but its implementation has slowed down. We have the following questions for the Minister. When is the concept of optimising the hospital network to be implemented? Can and which hospitals are expected to be closed during the reform? The programme for 2011-2015 does not address the reform of the hospital network. For what reason? How many times and with what results has the Minister met the hospital executives? Can ignoring the reform of the hospital network by the Government of the Republic mean that patients' own participation will increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U3	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of several Social Democrats, I will present an inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Its content is briefly as follows: As we know, the Ministry of Finance and Riigi Kinnisvara AS have arranged to channel funds received from the sale of unused Estonian allowances to increase the heat stability of the state and local government institutions. Quite a lot of this money has gone to the State Forest Management Centre. Among the renovated objects, for example, there are two forest buildings that were selected as one of the most beautiful forest district centers just a few years ago. At the same time, kindergartens have been deprived of money, whose energy efficiency and level of care are far behind RMK's buildings. On the basis of the above, we have the following questions. What was the reason for this money? How do you explain why there are so many RMK buildings on that list? The main criterion was the number of beneficiaries and the volume of CO2 savings. How do resources in RMK's buildings meet these criteria? It is also important that the main criterion of CO2 savings is actually classified on a building basis, that it is not counted out of nowhere, that no one will know, and that no one wants to comment on it. Finally, we ask whether it is reasonable to make all these very different investments to the state through Riigi Kinnisvara AS. We want to know how much it cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. We're going to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 26 October, the following members of the Government will take part in Question Time: Minister for Defence Mart Laar in the role of Prime Minister, Minister for Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister for Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Ladies and gentlemen, Now let's get to the presence check. Currently, 90 members of the public have been registered as present, 11 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U6	We will begin the processing of the items on today's agenda. The first item of the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Electricity Market Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending bill No 83, the Electricity Market Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, which can be summarised as follows: This is a very short draft to resolve the issue of the organisation of rescue work on a particular subject. This object is the Estonian power plant of Eesti Energia Narva Power Plants AS, which is Estonia's largest electricity producer (80% of electricity should come from this power plant). For several years, a rather vague scheme has been used to finance and organise the operation of the rescue command at this power plant. The rescue command of the power plant is an external structural unit of the National Rescue Agency, or East-Estonian Rescue Centre, which is financed by the power plant, but the employees are on the list of employees of the state institution. This is a rescue unit operated by a single national rescue facility intended to protect only one particular object. The structure and organisation of the rescue command, such as that of the power plant command, is not provided for in the Rescue Act, but is a rescue command under a contract between the two parties. The contract shall be concluded for a period of one year. With the renewal of the agreement, there has been a need for a legal solution to this issue for years. The bill also does and follows. The Estonian power plant of Narva Power Plants, which is also a vital service provider within the meaning of the Emergency Act, must ensure that the necessary rescue work is carried out on its territory for the continuity of its service. In particular, rescue work is to be carried out by means of fire-fighting operations and other primarily necessary activities at the power plant until the arrival of the workers of the rescue facility. The task of the power plant will be to maintain its primary capability, i.e. to maintain its own rescue command. When it comes to general responsibility, the Rescue Board is of course responsible for the rescue work throughout the country. In order to clarify the undertaking's obligation to carry out first rescue work, the draft law provides for a mandate for the establishment of a regulation of the Government of the Republic setting out more precise requirements for the rescue unit of the power plant and the cooperation with the State Rescue Authority. Therefore, good members of the Riigikogu, the Estonian power plant of Narva Power Plants will be obliged to ensure the primary rescue capacity on their territory. This requirement is far from the first in Estonia. The Estonian Energy Mines, Tallinn Airport and the Estonian Railways also have their own rescue unit. The content of the draft has, of course, been discussed with the employees of Eesti Energia and the Ministry of the Interior agrees with them on this draft. This change does not entail any additional costs for the power plant, since, as was pointed out earlier, they are still financing the maintenance of the power plant's rescue command. The amendment to the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act at the end of this draft is of a technical nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U8	Thank you. Please ask a question, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Surely this is a necessary and correct bill. But I also asked the representative of the ministry in the Commission why it was only now that this had been achieved. During the preparation of this bill, did it become clear why it was stretched? As we know, the mines and the airport had long been set up by law. Why was this thing in power stations between the so-called earth and heaven?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U10	Thank you for your question. I haven't been in this job for very long. I suppose one reason may be that a significant number of rescue laws, including the rescue law, were only adopted at the end of the previous term. As a result, regulation on this subject has now been achieved, building on new legal regulations. But clearly, it's better late than never.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U11	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U12	Thank you very much. I am sorry that I am not familiar with this bill in detail. But here's the question. Is the idea that power plants must have a rescue command, just like at an airport, a mine, etc., or can they buy this service from a private security company on the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U13	I assume no one will buy this service from a private security company. It is still a rescue command of the Estonian power plant of Narva Power Plants, which ensures the primary rescue capability. This would be a likely solution after the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U14	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U15	Thank you. My question included the 15-year history of this question. Does this bill allow you to buy this service from a private company with free prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U16	I think this draft does not lay down general regulation; it is provided for by the rescue law. The Salvation Act states that it is possible to involve third parties in the rescue work, but the general rescue obligation on Estonian territory is of course the Rescue Board. We can come back to it if someone has some kind of ability. Of course, there is an opportunity in the Rescue Act to enter into private agreements with volunteers, free savers. As far as buying this service from a security company is concerned, I'm indebted to the answer right now. As far as I know, there are no such service providers in Estonia, so it seems to me that there is no such capacity. Maybe you know more, Mati, but I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U17	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U18	Thank you very much. Did I get you right that this service requires a certain degree of specific competence and a certificate? Question: are we not destroying the competence to perform such a specific function, which we seem to have?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U19	This specific function is, after all, the general provision of rescue services. It is clear that certain qualification requirements specifically laid down could be foreseen in the Estonian power plant of Narva Power Plants. For this purpose, a mandate has also been given to establish a government regulation in order to take account of the specific characteristics of this particular subject. This is mainly a matter for the owner of the company. It is certainly possible to foresee a specific qualification, because such objects do not really have many. As I mentioned, there are other vital service providers in Estonia who have their own rescue team. They're each with their own specifics, too. We take Estonian Railways or Tallinn Airport, they are not just Narva Power Stations, but also places where separate requirements can be foreseen for the persons who will provide the primary rescue service. This means that within 15 to 20 minutes, until the rescue service providers arrive from the Rescue Board, the rescue command of the Estonian power plant in Narva will be obliged to resolve the situation itself, whatever exactly it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U20	No further questions. Thank you, Ken-Marti Vaher! I would like a presentation by Urmas Reinsalu, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U21	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed this draft law at its meeting on 10 October. The overall mood was understanding and supportive of the objectives set out in the draft. That is why we decided by consensus in the Commission to refer this draft to the first reading of this Chamber, to close it and to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 12 noon on the next working week. The debate in the Commission was brief. It focused on the Commission's visit to Narva Power Plants during the previous session. There was a problem of security related to ensuring the continuity of vital services. Mr Tauno Suurkivi, the representative of the Ministry of the Interior, who attended the meeting of the Commission, explained that this draft regulation regulates the current situation by setting out the precise legal basis for the obligation to ensure that rescue work is carried out on its territory, in accordance with the principle that the obligation to support rescue work on special types of objects is laid down in sectoral law. This is not a precedent, the legislator has already laid down the relevant provisions in the Aviation Act and the Mining Act by means of implementing provisions of the Rescue Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U22	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Urmas Reinsalu. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting 83 amendments. a on November 1, at 12 noon. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U23	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Tõnis Lukas, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Committee on the Environment discussed amendments to the draft law amending the Waste Act at its meeting on 10 October. Three proposals had come. One of them was from the members of the Riigikogu Tõnis Kõiv and Liisa Pakosta. This concerned tightening the requirements when using sewage sludge as a waste management site in a densely populated area. It was forced to prevent the spread of environmental disturbance, or smell, in a completely contained space, i.e. to store such waste in enclosed spaces. The Commission discussed this issue seriously and considered that requirements should be strengthened in densely populated areas where residents are disturbed by the unpleasant smell of waste management and storage. However, there are currently no precise calculations that will cost this and in all other cases, and it is not known on the basis of which timetable the stench disturbing the population can be reduced by such methods. There will certainly be a return to this issue in the future. However, since the draft was initiated in order to transpose the European directive and it is urgent, we did not take up such a wide-ranging new opening. The initiators withdrew their proposal when they heard that the Ministry and the Commission were ready to take the matter forward in other forms. The Commission decided to initiate, in coordination with the Ministry, an amendment fixing that producers could indicate the costs of waste management for the sale of EEE placed on the market before 13 August 2005 as a separate part of the price of the plant. For the various categories, it is up to the Minister to decide whether this is valid until 13 August 2012 or until 13 August 2014. So far, this regulation was entirely under the influence of the Ministry, and now the so-called general decision on this regulation was incorporated into the law, but the delegation to the Minister remained. The Committee on the Environment proposed this on its behalf. The second amendment, made on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, concerns the possible entry into force of the Act if the Riigikogu approves this draft. One point with more time to enforce will be separated from other parts, but the rest of the law will be enforced on the day following publication in the Official Journal of the State. Since we are lagging behind the necessary pace when transposing the directive, it is appropriate to enforce the law as soon as possible after adoption. That is all the Commission has done. If we go ahead with this draft in the way proposed by the Commission, then it is proposed that the next reading, i.e. the law, be adopted by the Riigikogu as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U25	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! How late is this alignment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U27	I don't have that in the explanatory memorandum to read it, but according to my memory, it's a six-month question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U28	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Point 42 states that waste is disposed of and mixed municipal waste is recovered at a technologically appropriate waste treatment site as close as possible to its source. Do you think that the application of this legislative amendment will give rise to a different approach, for example, in the construction of incineration plants or storage sites? It is now the custom that we transfer waste across Estonia to a few landfills and individual incineration sites. But is there now, for example, a second approach, following the example of the Finns, and will regional recovery sites or smaller areas be built?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U30	Thank you. This second approach is not likely to arise in the case of a country like Estonia with a relatively limited territory. However, it was under serious discussion during the preparation of the draft. Waste operators have also proposed not to use the formulation 'as close as possible' in the future, as Estonia is so small that distances may not be emphasised at all, it is important to decide where one type of waste can be stored or handled in Estonia; distances are not important. At the same time, we are taking over the directive, and we considered that the principle of the directive that this place should be as close as possible would make sense, however, to be mentioned as one principle. We're not gonna change that here. In general, this does not mean that we give back full speed and that there will be something being created in every county. For example, a distance of 200 kilometres, which is considered relatively normal, exceeds the borders of many counties in Estonia. So, no, it's definitely not going to be that tight. But we're not taking the full speed towards one of the storage facilities, one of the treatment facilities. Decisions shall be taken on the basis of rationality. The text comes from a directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U31	No further questions for you. Thank you, Tõnis Lukas! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. We shall proceed to the examination of the amendments. The Committee on the Environment has tabled two amendments. The lead committee has proposed to take full account of the first proposal. The second amendment is also from the Committee on the Environment, and it is proposed that it be fully taken into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U32	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, member of the Committee on the Environment, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft law amending the radiation law was completed on 28 September. a and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 5 October. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on the Environment finalised one amendment amending subsection 1 (3) of the draft. Paragraph 1 (3) of the draft law complements § 4 (4) of the Waste Act, according to which the Environmental Board may provide paid services related to the radiological safety of its main activities, provided that this does not hinder the performance of its duties under the Statute. The list of services to be paid and the rates of charges shall be established by a regulation of the Minister for the Environment. According to the amendment, the list of paid services provided by the Environmental Board and the upper and lower rates of fees are established by the radiation law (new paragraph 6 of Section 4 of the Waste Act) and the Minister of the Environment establishes a specified list of services and specific rates of charges for the provision of services in his regulation. Fees shall be calculated on the basis of the labour, material, equipment and general costs necessary for the provision of the service. The amendment is based on § 113 of the Constitution, which obliges the legislator to impose all public financial obligations by law. The Supreme Court has acknowledged that the legislator may delegate the imposition of a financial obligation under public law to the executive power only if the legislator determines the scope of discretion which may consist in laying down the minimum and maximum limits of the obligation by law or otherwise, which ensures that its size is determined on an objective basis, allows the obliged entity to establish with sufficient precision the scope of the obligation and ensures equal treatment of persons. During the debate at the meeting of the Commission on 10 October, it was noted that the Environmental Board is the only competent authority in Estonia with competence and equipment to provide services to ensure radiation safety. It should be noted that the closest providers of similar services are located in Finland and Latvia. The minimum fees imposed by the Radiation Act have been calculated on the basis of the relevant formula base. Most fees are capped at three times the minimum fee. The Minister for the Environment has been empowered to establish a specified list of services (so-called sub-services) together with specific rates of charges for the costs incurred for the provision of services, taking into account the maximum and minimum fees imposed by the radiation law and on the basis of the labour, material, equipment and general costs necessary for the provision of services. Evelyn Pesur, chief specialist at the Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment and Ilmar Puskar, Head of Radiation Department of the Environmental Board, participated in the drafting of the amendments. Technical and linguistic changes have also been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. At its meeting on 10 October, the Committee on the Environment decided to invite the Riigikogu plenary to conclude the second reading of the draft 80 and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U34	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalle Palling. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us examine the amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment. The Steering Committee has decided to take full account of this proposal. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading of bill 80 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U35	We are going to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like to present the speech chair to Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft concerns the geological storage of CO2. This draft transposes into Estonian law the requirements laid down in Directive 2009/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. According to the Directive, the necessary laws, regulations and administrative provisions should have been put into effect by 25 June. a. So there is a request to the Riigikogu to support this rather specific draft so that we can fulfil our obligations and take over our legal space. This directive is one of the six pieces of legislation in the European Union's climate and energy package, which aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020. The main operational objective of CO2 storage technology is in turn to reduce CO2 emissions from fossil fuel power plants by collecting CO2 emissions together and directing them to a suitable geological storage site that meets specific conditions for permanent storage. CO2 capture technology can also be applied in Estonia to reduce emissions from cement production, for example. Due to geological studies carried out by our scientists, it can be argued that Estonia lacks suitable means of storing CO2 in the ground. It has therefore not been considered necessary to transpose into Estonian law the articles of the Directive on storage of CO2 in the ground, the subject matter of the storage permit and the study permit, the monitoring and control of the storage site, the closure of the storage site and other related matters. Since our geological conditions do not allow for underground storage, we do not have to transpose these conditions either. However, the purpose of the Act is to create an opportunity, not an obligation, for the collection and transport of CO2 in large installations, in order to preserve CO2 in suitable storage sites outside the territory of Estonia. Let me just give you an example. Denmark is a country where such opportunities exist and where, theoretically, we could also manage CO2 in liquefied form. The targets set are expected to maintain a total of 7 million tonnes of CO2 in the EU by 2020 and to reach 160 million tonnes of CO2 stored in the ground in 2030. The bill that you have before you amends a number of laws: the law on ambient air protection, the law on environmental impact assessment and environmental management, the law on environmental liability, the law on earth, the law on integrated pollution prevention and control, as well as the law on water. The amendment to the law on ambient air protection takes over the terminology of the Directive, sets requirements for CO2 transport pipelines and their connection, sets out the composition and reporting requirements for CO2 to be collected and obliges operators of large combustion plants to assess the potential for CO2 capture and transport. The transport of CO2 collected for storage in the ground shall be limited to the limit that the CO2 collected may not be transported outside the territory of the Member States of the European Union for the purpose of storage in the ground. The amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act complements the list of activities with significant environmental impacts in subsection 6 (1) with the construction of CO2 transport pipelines and associated pumping stations and the collection of CO2. An important provision relating to the transposition of the Directive has been included in the Ground Law. It prohibits the preservation of CO2 in the soil of the Republic of Estonia and under the continental shelf, because, as I referred to above, geological research has pointed out several times that there are simply no sites for the geological storage of CO2 in Estonia suitable for sustainable storage and security of leakage. A derogation is granted for the storage of CO2 of less than 100 kilotonnes in the framework of research. The amendment to the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Act stipulates that an installation engaged in the capture of CO2 requires a complex permit. The amendment to the Water Act prohibits the maintenance of CO2 in the marine area, i.e. the introduction of CO2 into the water column or the seabed, or the conservation of CO2 in geological formations under the seabed. As the collection of CO2 from emissions is extremely costly in technological terms, for example, in the Estonian energy sector, the collection of CO2 for underground storage is currently not planned to our knowledge. The EU ETS should act as a financial incentive to start with CO2 storage, but the current price offered for reducing CO2 emissions by one tonne is lower than the actual cost of using one tonne of CO2 capture and transport technology. So the requirements we are taking over our legal space, but, as we know, the collection of CO2 for underground storage in our energy sector is not planned, as has been said. However, I am asking the Riigikogu for support for the adoption of this very necessary draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U37	Any questions for the Minister of the Environment? Everyone has it all figured out. Thank you, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus! I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U38	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at its meeting on 17 October. The chair has already said that everyone is clear. The Minister therefore made a very good and thorough presentation. That's why I'm not going to make an overview of the substance of the law. However, the Commission raised a number of questions in connection with the discussion of this draft law. That's what I'm gonna give you a little bit of an overview of. Meelis Münt, Head of Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Reeli Jakobi, Chief Specialist, answered the questions. The members of the Commission had a question as to why the provisions on the maintenance of CO2 are included in the draft. The answer was that the preservation provisions are not directly there. The Groundwater Act provides that the preservation of CO2 in the territory of the Republic of Estonia is prohibited. At the same time, the Directive ensures that studies can be carried out. So there may be some changes in the future if there is more knowledge in this area. There was a question of how CO2 is created in the first place and in what case the law will apply in Estonia. The answer was that the preservation of CO2 does not apply in Estonia, but transport to other countries may take place. In Latvia, for example, small-scale deposits exist and CO2 transport and storage is possible, but at the same time it is not economically viable. They asked what these conditions are at all, why CO2 cannot be deposited in Estonia. Reel Jakobi replied that the geological conditions would determine this situation. The sedimentary rocks are thin, but CO2 can be stored below 800 metres. Unfortunately, we do not have such geological conditions. It was also asked that, if 25 of the 27 countries did not transpose the requirements of the directive on time, how many were responsible precisely for geological reasons. The answer was that it was known that Finland and Sweden had the same cause, and Latvia had the same cause. It was a question of whether the expert opinion on geological suitability was carried out by Estonian scientists. The answer was that it was indeed done by Estonian scientists, namely, researchers from the Institute of Geology at Tallinn University of Technology. In Estonia, researchers asked about the possibility of sequestration of CO2, using the principles of mineral carbonisation, and more simply how CO2 can be reconnected with oil shale ash and reduced emissions through the chimney in the production of energy. Meelis Coin's reply was that the European Commission would give its views on this in 2012-2013. So it's still going to be appreciated. This could be one real opportunity for Estonia to reduce its CO2 emissions. It was also a question of how long this preservation is and where the risks begin. The answer was that, according to the Directive, it is purely CO2 storage. The requirement is that the owner of the storage facility must ensure storage for 50 to 100 years and that it is continuously monitored in the reservoir. There was a question of 100 kilotons mentioned in the amendments to the law on the ground. What does this mean in the Estonian dimension? The answer was that, as the Minister has already said, this is, of course, the quantities allowed for scientific research. There can be no commercial purpose here. It is calculated to be 1% of the annual volume of CO2 emissions from the Estonian energy sector. This was, in short, the debate that took place in the Commission. As far as the Commission's decisions are concerned, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be taken to the first reading today, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading be stopped (this was a consensual decision) and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 16 a.m. on 8 November 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U39	Any questions for the waitress? Still no questions. Thank you very much, Jaanus Tamkivi. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting 104 amendments. 9 November 2010 at 4 p.m. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U40	Our fifth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I would like to ask Mr Ossinovski, the representative of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In order for you to be able to decide independently on the further procedure for this draft, not just to follow the instructions of the group, I will start by putting this draft in a slightly larger context, i.e. I am not only talking about the children that this bill is talking about, but also about adults. Indeed, a recent international study by MIPEX found that Estonia has one of the toughest rules of citizenship compared to other European countries. The Estonian authorities have also reached the same position. The Police and Border Guard Board notes: "Despite the very active communication of persons of undefined nationality in recent years, the number of applications for citizenship has been declining since 2005, as the provisions of the current Citizenship Act do not favour the application for citizenship. ' These are not my words, but the words of Raivo Küd, Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. When we look at the bill, there's a pretty sad picture. We remember how the Ministry of the Interior published happy press releases in spring about the decrease in the number of persons of undefined nationality, which is less than 100,000 people. There was talk about how the police and Border Guard Board's active communication among parents has increased the number of applications. As if this was the main reason for the decrease in the number of stateless persons. The real picture is, however, that in 2010 naturalisation resulted in the lowest number of people having received Estonian citizenship since Estonia regained independence. This figure decreased by 3,500 people last year, while only 1184, or a third of them, came to Estonian citizens by naturalisation. The most important reasons for the loss of nationality are, firstly, becoming a citizen of the Russian Federation and, secondly, a very effective measure, namely the death of non-citizens. That is why, on the one hand, we see that the number of stateless persons has been steadily decreasing over the years, but at the same time the number of people who obtained Estonian citizenship has also decreased in Estonia. The only thing that has not decreased is the number of Russian citizens. In order to make the press releases of the Ministry of the Interior more objective, it is necessary to add a rather uncomfortable fact that more Russian citizens live in Estonia as of 2011 than persons of undefined citizenship. The most important consequence of this is, of course, that Russian citizenship restores Russian citizenship, as the children of Russian citizens are automatically Russian citizens, and in addition, the child of Russian citizens and non-nationals is also automatically Russian citizens. Although this may not be relevant in the near future, those in this Chamber might wonder about Article 61 (2) of the Russian Constitution, which talks about the protection of Russian citizens abroad. Now to the bill. Given that the government has said, at the request of the Conservatives, that the principles of citizenship policy are not being changed, the Social Democrats are trying to approach this matter constructively. In fact, this bill 68 seeks to solve this serious problem, which I have just spoken about, that is to say to make the organisation of our citizenship a little more European and to take a small step not only towards reducing the number of stateless people, but also towards increasing the number of Estonian citizens, without changing the principles of citizenship policy. According to § 13 (4) of the current Citizenship Act, under 15 years of age a child of undefined citizenship residing in Estonia will be granted citizenship by naturalisation if the parents so request. Unfortunately, it is a sad fact that a third of parents do not do so either for ignorance or for some other reason. It is certainly a pragmatic decision in some cases to allow a child to travel visa-free in the CIS. However, there are also rare cases where a child has been deprived of his or her nationality because of his or her parents' ignorance. Several of these cases have already entered the proceedings of the Chancellor of Justice, and a particularly marked case was reported a few weeks ago on "The Spectator." That is why many international organisations, as well as Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder, have expressed the view that this system could be the opposite. Namely, all children of non-citizens could be granted Estonian citizenship by naturalisation without an application, if their parents do not wish to give it up within six months. That is the purpose of this bill. The MPs who have been here for a longer time may remember an externally similar draft submitted by the Centre Party during the previous term, but it wanted the children of non-citizens to be granted birth citizenship. This would have really been to change the principles of Estonian citizenship policy. As has been said, we are trying to be constructive, and we therefore stress that this is still a citizenship granted under the naturalisation regime. In order to disprove some of the non-qualified comments on this draft which were found in the government's opinion, I would say that it would look practically as if, when a child is born, he was six months of undefined citizenship until a possible parental opt-out was expected. If this does not happen, the government will decide to grant him or her citizenship when the child reaches six months of age. Thus, the discretion of the government would be maintained and bureaucratic application would not be allowed. In addition, communication that currently requires important human resources would be avoided. I asked the Minister of the Interior a written question about the scope of the communication, which you can find out if anyone has an interest in it. It talks about how important human resources, as well as quite large financial resources, are required. If someone tries to claim that the rejection of an application involves a change in the principle of citizenship policy, I wonder whether the application can really be considered as the basis for citizenship policy. Finally. Children affected by this bill, i.e. those whose parents have not wanted or been able to apply for citizenship, are currently under 2000. Considering that we are having nearly 15,000 children a year, our demographic situation is quite difficult, it is certainly quite a large number. It should be noted that this is considerably higher than the number of people who are naturalised in Estonia during the year, i.e. the number of people who become Estonian citizens. On the other hand, this is, of course, a rather small step towards resolving this very big citizenship problem, but in addition to purely practical outputs, this step would certainly have a very large and important symbolic meaning, namely that the Estonian state shows that it cares about all the people living here. I hope that the Riigikogu will be able to process this bill without great political emotions, because I do not think it is appropriate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U42	Thank you. You've been asked a lot of questions. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U43	Thank you. Honourable performer! Your presentation had a very interesting introduction, which reminded us once again that the number of Russian citizens in Estonia is increasing. In fact, no country wants citizens of another country to grow rapidly on its territory. I therefore ask you, who you seem to be well informed, a question that no Estonian government official has been able to answer in 20 years. If there is a military conflict between Russia and Estonia, why, I understand, the Estonian Defence Forces are always preparing, what do you think the Russian citizens here will be doing in the days of this conflict?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U44	I sincerely hope that there will be no such conflict. Its probability is at least low at present. But I also pointed out in my speech that those in the Chamber could read § 61 (2) of the Constitution of the Russian Federation. Everyone's gonna draw their own conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U45	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U46	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Basically, your draft would bring a six-month slap into the current regulation. I would like to know exactly what will change in this six months, for example, in the awareness of my parents. Why isn't this time a year or longer, for example, where the six months come from? What advantage does this particular six months give? You mentioned in your presentation that citizenship is very often a problem with parents' awareness, they are not aware of their rights. Have you thought that perhaps a communication programme would help, perhaps by providing more effective information, to alleviate the situation so that people are aware of their opportunities to apply for citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U47	Thank you. In answer to the first part of the question, some international organisations have recommended three months, some have recommended six months. It's a decision-making place. It is not necessary to leave this time too long, as this change of status will have certain legal consequences, i.e. the status should be fixed relatively quickly. On the other side of the question, I say that the information campaign is still being carried out, it has certainly led to certain results, but not as good as we would like. One option is to improve the efficiency of this work, and the other option is to go the other way. We often think about citizenship (in the case of grown-up people, it is probably justified) that a person must have a very strong connection with the country, he must be integrated here in order to become a citizen of that country. This is a fundamental principle of our citizenship policy. I think it works the other way around for the kids. We can link these people more to our society if we give them citizenship right from the beginning, and then there is, I say, a much greater likelihood that they will become loyal citizens of Estonia and Estonian patriots.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U48	Yeah, I didn't give you that exact figure. While we were drafting the bill, there were children who came under this law, but had not applied for citizenship under the simplified procedure, 1737. When this draft was dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 10 October, it was said that there were just over 1600. I doubt that the 130 children by whom this figure decreased in three months have, in the meantime, become an Estonian citizen, probably just turned 15 years old. I agree that this is, of course, a symbolic step, but I would still not underestimate it if the 1600 people who were born in Estonia and live here become an Estonian citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U49	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U50	I would probably not express myself in such words, but there are certainly people of both Estonian and Russian nationality who are not very well able to understand the long-term impact of their actions, especially when it comes to the choices made by these children. I think that the Estonian state should certainly deal with them and the more it deals with them, the better. The question is that this particular communication has been very much addressed. The Minister of the Interior replied to me that in addition to having published information leaflets, 153 officials agreed to advise parents every day, media campaigns have been made, 61 have gone to school with Russian language to speak about it, etc. A lot has been done, but less has been achieved than we'd like. But to conclude that we should not have to deal with this at all, I think, is not quite right.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U51	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U52	Thank you. Good waitress! I have to start by admitting that geography was the only subject I had on my graduation certificate three, but with logic, I was fine. That's why I wanted to ask you if you would remind me and Tõnis Lukas of the length of the border between Russia and France. Perhaps you can also tell me how much of the population of France is made up of Russian citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U53	Thank you, Indrek! I think your knowledge of geography wasn't so poor that you wouldn't know the answer to that question. I hope Tõnis Lukas' knowledge of geography was a little better.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U54	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U55	Thank you. Good waitress! A multicultural country such as Canada has been working very closely on the issue of citizenship for years. There have been many changes to these regulations over the last ten years. This has led to the emergence of a flow of maternity tourists, i.e. trying to time birth in such a way that while a tourist in Canada gets a child in the hospital because of the automatic birth on Canadian soil, with certain restrictions. This has led to immigration officials trying to prevent people from coming to the country whose pregnancy is in the last period. But it's a longer topic. I just wanted to ask if the bill could potentially create a flow of so-called maternity tourists in Estonia in order to get Estonian citizenship for the child born here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U56	Maybe I didn't express myself exactly. Certainly, the basic principle of our citizenship policy is clearly ius sanguine, and that is basically what remains of it. We're not going to have the order we have in Canada. According to the current regime, which does not change, in addition to the fact that the child must be born in Estonia after 1992, the second, third, fourth and fifth requirements must also be fulfilled. One of them is that a person must have lived in Estonia for eight years, the last five years being permanent. So this time it won't work.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U57	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U58	Thank you. I have another question concerning France, but also other countries. France is quite resolutely integrating those who have entered through language requirements, and it has done so in French society, leaving aside social problems, indeed with quite good results, compared to Germany, which is not so resolutely conducting its language policy as part of integration. By the way, more and more Russian citizens, both Russians and representatives of other nations, are emigrating to France, and there are quite a number of asylum seekers from Russia's territory. So much for geography. Is it now noticed that there has been an increased interest in coming from Russia to Estonia? Do you think Russia will be trying to come to Estonia in the near future to settle here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U59	I do not know whether to settle here, but we do know the situation by applying for certain types of residence permits, which was a problem this year. In general, of course, there were people who were not very interested in Estonia. They simply wanted to move freely within the Schengen area and probably go there to France. But once again: I do not want too much to compare Estonia with other countries, because the question is not what Russia is doing, it is not about what France is doing, but about what we ourselves are doing with this very specific, almost unique problem that we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U60	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U61	Dear waitress, Juku-Kalle Raid put forward an interesting hypothesis in his question that it could be ignorant parents who would not be affected by any communication. Does it not seem to you that, if so, the draft you have tabled is more legitimate? The state should then make this decision, because children of ignorant parents may not be ignorant at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U62	Thank you. I totally agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U63	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U64	Good President! Good performer! Perhaps you stress once again why it is even important for the state to be citizens of that country. What does this provide for the country, given that Estonia has a unique situation in which 8% of its inhabitants are not citizens of that country? Why are we even worried about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U65	Thank you. Yes, we have 8% of people who are not citizens of our country, but are citizens of another country. In addition, there are about as many people who are stateless at all. But its importance is one thing that has been highlighted. Here we are. I think this is not a very comfortable place for us, but we have been compared to Latvia in particular. Estonia and Latvia are European countries with the greatest problem of long-term democratic inclusion. It is clear that one of the problems with non-citizens is that they cannot participate in elections and therefore their opportunities to participate in the political democratic process are limited. The second thing is more general: if people are not citizens of this country, they also do not feel like citizens of this country, which is why they are not interested in what is happening in this country. I think that our long-term interest is that regardless of what problems our national minorities have, they should be involved in democratic politics and social life so that they do not go anywhere else. We saw it ourselves a few years ago. Speaking of France, I say this to Tõnis Lukas, I think France has problems compared to Germany. Sometimes social tensions go a little different than democratic politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U66	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U67	Thank you. In fact, it is very sweet when two Russians, like you and I, are discussing these matters here in the servantly Estonian language and we have to explain to some colleagues that this is normal and language skills are not really about citizenship, as sad as it is. But now to the question. Perhaps you have information on what happens to children whose parents have not applied for citizenship in time for a simplified procedure. Do they get Russian citizenship or a grey passport, or what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U68	Thank you. Do you mean the children whose parents did not apply for citizenship when the child was under 15 years old and who are now older? This bill does not regulate it. They're what they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U69	Where are they going next?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U70	Where are they going in general? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't have the statistics available right now, it's relatively difficult to get the statistics. But it would be interesting to find out exactly where they're going. I think that, in the same way and in the same way as in general: a third remains stateless, a third becomes an Estonian citizen and a third becomes a Russian citizen.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U71	Thank you. However, we will stick to the speeches recorded. This conversation is not freely developed in this hall. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Assuming this amendment to the law will apply, how do you, a good waitress, think in public law that there will be an additional basis for taking away citizenship? It is enough to do this simply by the parents' statement and that is it, because the draft states that the child will automatically receive Estonian citizenship, but in the course of the six months it will actually be taken away on the basis of the parents' statement. This may not at all be what you originally planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U73	Thank you. I don't think you listened to me enough. I also spoke in my speech about the practical aspect of how this thing would look. For the first six months, this child would remain an undefined person of nationality and when he or she reaches the age of six months, but the parents have not submitted an application for surrender, the government will make him or her an Estonian citizen by decision. There's no such thing in between, and there's no taking anything away from anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U74	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U75	Honourable waitress! Under the current regime, parents apply for citizenship for the child. At least then we will see that part of the parents are interested in citizenship. According to your proposal, there would be a situation where we do not know whether any of these three (one child and two parents) are interested. The only one who should take responsibility and understand something is the government that gives citizenship to a child. Do you think it is enough for the government to decide and in fact we do not know whether the child or his or her parents are interested in Estonian citizenship at all? Should we not, however, show any interest and initiative in obtaining citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U76	Thank you. We're talking about kids here. This is probably the case for adults, but it is a little difficult for children to talk about interest, both for children of native Estonian citizens and for children of non-citizens. It cannot be said that a one-year-old child has some kind of interest and connection to the country, etc. The question is that if parents do not apply for citizenship for any reason, if they are not interested, if they think that their child does not want it, or if they simply do not know about it, then the result is that when a child turns 15, he discovers that this possibility is no longer open and is relatively suspicious, whether he or she will become an Estonian citizen or a citizen of another country. What does this mean for his chances of participating in Estonia's life, and how does this change his interest in participating in this life? In addition, I think there is a certain group of people who may not be taking the most friendly view of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U77	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U78	Thank you. Good waitress! In Estonia, 8% of citizens have no citizenship at all, with almost 10% of citizens from other countries being added. We've talked a lot about France today. In France, only a few percent of the permanent population do not have French citizenship. But there is also a way that when a young person graduates from school in France, he can automatically apply for citizenship and, if he has not applied for it, when he turns 18, he gets it automatically. Unfortunately, in Estonia, if you have also been in school in Estonia for 9 or 12 years, you will still have to take additional exams if you do not have Estonian citizenship or if you are stateless. My question is: couldn't Estonia also be that if you graduate from school here, you can automatically apply for Estonian citizenship without further examinations, because the school system should ensure both language skills and knowledge of the Estonian state and society?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U79	Thank you. I totally agree with that. The possible counter argument is that Russian children do not speak enough Estonian when they finish school. In my opinion, the problem is not about these children, but about the quality of teaching. I agree with this basically, but specifically this draft is much narrower.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U80	Thank you. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U81	Honourable waitress! From the answers I realized that the target group of this law is 1500 children, and we have about 150 officials who are willing to give them all the advice that makes so-called ten customers per official, and is intended for several years to deal with the client. At the same time, we understand that this system is not working very well. Do you have an overview of what this information campaign looks like? Could it possibly be more personal? Is this limited to the publication of information leaflets?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U82	Thank you. This campaign is relatively well built. If I had to do it myself, I wouldn't know how to do it much better. First, at the maternity home, parents are given information leaflets and are told that they are offered personal counselling if they so wish. If so, one of these 153 officials will contact the parent. According to the Minister of the Interior, one oral counseling lasts about ten minutes. If the parent hasn't made up his mind, he's still getting calls and stuff. It's a rather personal approach, but its effectiveness is still low.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U83	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Evgeny Ossinovski! I would like to ask Andres Herkel, Member of the Constitutional Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U84	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I must first of all say that the issues of citizenship policy still give rise to a very lively debate in this Chamber, and that was also the case in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when we dealt with this draft on Monday, 10 October. As a representative of the initiators, Mr Ossinovski was present, who also presented the relevant positions nicely today, as a representative of the government, mediated the position of the Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Ruth Annus. The Commission raised largely the same questions as in today's debate. Perhaps more closely than the two major thematic blocks that emerged. First of all, the question whether the proposed change is a change in the foundations of citizenship policy or whether it is a purely technical issue. That was the first issue. The second concerned children under the age of 15 who are of undefined nationality and whose parents are of undefined nationality. It was discussed whether their naturalisation is a major problem or whether it is a question that is gradually resolving itself and which is not of great concern. I will not stop here in the views of the author of the bill, as they have already been presented very clearly to the Riigikogu plenary. However, I will explain the government's position, which Ruth Annus mediated, stressing the understanding that according to Estonian principles, a person is granted citizenship upon request and with the decision of the state to do so. It is not in line with our citizenship policy if citizenship is granted without a clear declaration of the person's will or, in the case of very young children, without a declaration of the will of their parents. Ruth Annus also pointed out, among other things, that, as the rapporteur mentioned here, there were 1737 persons under the age of 15 at the time the draft was initiated, now there are less than 1600. So this is a really falling trend. In 2004, there were over 11000 people in Estonia, which says that there are no major problems with obtaining citizenship for such children. Of the questions raised in the Commission, I will mark a few more, but not very long. They asked how many parents could have failed to notify the Citizenship and Migration Board of the child's nationality during the first year of life and what their chances of becoming a child's adult will remain. The answer was that about 600 children of undefined nationality are born a year, and about 500 of them will be either Estonian citizenship, or mostly Estonian citizenship during the first year of life of a foreign citizenship. Consequently, there are a hundred children in whom this problem remains unresolved, either on the basis of an informed decision by their parents or on the basis of problems of a social nature. But the possibility for a child until the age of 15 of this issue remains and is not rare in cases where the parents leave the decision to the child at the end of the day. At the age of 15, the child can decide for himself what he or she wants. A little more about whether or not this is a shrinking problem. I have already indicated that there are fewer and fewer children like this in Estonia, and in the course of the procedure of this draft, their number has been steadily decreasing. In 1992 there were about half a million persons of undefined citizenship in Estonia, and now this figure has fallen below 100000. The Commission was also asked about the age structure of some 1600 children of undefined nationality. The answer was that this distribution is clearly uneven. Rather, it is a problem that has arisen in previous years, which is gradually decreasing. Now there aren't many more stateless children. At the same time, the whole problem cannot be expected to disappear completely, but the reason for this is rather the fact that people with undefined citizenship are very well protected in Estonia and are in a very good legal position. The committee decided to send the draft to the Riigikogu Hall for the first reading today and appoint the speaker to act as rapporteur on the part of the committee. Opinions were heard on what to do with the draft. Opinions were divided as to whether the first reading should be closed or whether the draft was rejected at first reading. The committee chairman put to the vote the proposal to close the first reading, which received 5 votes in favour and 5 against, i.e. was not supported. There was therefore a rather complicated situation in the Commission, but, as is customary in such cases, the Commission's view is that the draft should be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U85	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U86	Thank you. I wanted to ask you something else, but your last sentences sounded very interesting. Does this mean that if the chairman of the committee had put to the vote the proposal not to finish the first reading and the result of the vote would have been 5: 5, we would now be discussing the Commission's proposal to finish the first reading in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U87	Yes, it may be so, and that is how the Riigikogu has been in practice. But I comfort you that the great hall is not the rubber stamp of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and everyone here has the opportunity to vote as they see fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U88	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U89	Dear waitress, As you have pointed out, this is a declining trend and the adoption of this draft as a law would pose no political threat to the Estonian people. This would be a gesture of goodwill, or as the Chancellor of Justice says, it would be a real act to show that Estonia takes all its inhabitants seriously. Can you explain why the government coalition is so stubbornly opposed to this gesture of goodwill, even though Professor Taagepera, the first chairman of the Fatherland and Res Publica, offered it several years ago? Or is it that if the Chancellor of Justice proposes or is in favour of changing the foundations of citizenship policy in Estonia, you are against it? What is the reason to oppose?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U90	Thank you for your question. Yes, the reason for objecting relates to the notion that this amendment nevertheless corrects certain fundamental grounds. This is not just a technical change. And on this point, our opinions in the Commission were also the most acutely divided. If I now mediate the rejection of this draft, the reason was indeed that obtaining citizenship without a clear declaration of will would mean changing the foundations of citizenship policy to date. We can argue whether this would be a major change and how fundamental it would be, but it is still important whether it is a clearly expressed will of a person to receive Estonian citizenship or whether it is not expressed. However, it is certainly the duty of the state to obtain the most informed citizens, and the specific expression of will involved contributes to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U91	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U92	Thank you. Good performer! You praised Estonian citizenship policy to heaven again, as you have been doing for 20 years. But did the Commission also mention that if our citizenship policy is so good, it has been criticised very strongly in recent years elsewhere in Europe, why do the Russians here want to change it and bring it to the Chamber of Riigikogu through their elected ambassadors? I mean, the situation still doesn't satisfy them. Was that discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U93	This was not discussed in this way, and I also have no idea how much support for this change lies in the Social Democratic Party. But regardless of nationality, they decided to put forward such a bill, and we treat it with dignity, just like the other drafts. As far as possible international positions are concerned, I recall that Estonia meets the standards of the European Union, the Council of Europe and other international organisations according to all criteria. There are indeed some further proposals from time to time, but these are such proposals, for which we certainly have a margin of discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U94	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Co-Rapporteur, Let me remind you that these are newborn babies. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, I am currently in possession of an opinion signed by the Minister for the Interior, in which Ken-Marti Vaher states that the child must therefore not be granted citizenship, that in his/her case his/her normal residence, his/her central place of interest, his/her family ties and loyalty to the state is not clear. With what analysis, with which medical device, or at all how do you recommend examining whether the infant is faithful to the state or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U96	Thank you for your question. I'll give you a more detailed answer. Sayings concerning children under the age of 18 will undoubtedly come from their parents. I'd say there's some sort of maliciousness in the matter. If parents decide to leave it open, if their parents have no idea what they want for their child or if they want to leave it up to their child, then the child will have time to consider it until they are 15 years old. However, I would use this question to point out one more thing that was not mentioned earlier. If, in some 5/6 cases, the parents choose the citizenship of their children during their first year of life, this actually takes place to a large extent on the basis of the Aliens Act and on the grounds that a residence permit must be applied for. So there is one such lever that makes people think about it early. I repeat, of the 600, roughly, there are a hundred who delay this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U97	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U98	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Your presentation gave the impression that there was an extremely black-and-white binary breakdown: changes in the Citizenship Act can be purely technical, or they can change the fundamentals of citizenship policy. We know that in certain traditional, deeply religious societies, it is a problem that the word of God, the Scriptures, is interpreted with God as a tissueist, therefore unchangeable and eternal. And if the Scriptures are the basis of laws, sooner or later these societies will run into such a problem that they will not be able to adapt to a changing world. I personally believe that the picture is somewhat more colorful, that such a black and white binary contrast is not justified. I believe that it is also possible to amend the Citizenship Act in such a way that changes are not just technical...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U99	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U100	... but are substantive and necessary, but does not change the fundamentals. Do you think this possibility exists?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U101	We must finally decide here whether or not this draft will be supported, and Sven Mikser will undoubtedly be able to say that he will abandon the black-and-white articulation and abstain on this issue. In fact, there are indeed contradictions and differing interpretations here, as demonstrated by the outcome of the Commission's vote. We understand this problem differently. Yes, a part of the Commission considered that this was a change in the foundations of citizenship policy, in particular on the issue of an informed declaration of will. The other half of the Commission considered that this was rather a technical change. Both positions exist and I, as the representative of the Commission, cannot in any way say that one position is worse than the other. Maybe I'll come back here later and express my personal position, but as a representative of the Commission, I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U102	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U103	Thank you. Good waitress! I will ask the Commission about what is being discussed. The Commission's protocol states that this is perhaps a decreasing problem over time, but still a problem that has been brought to the attention of our Chancellor of Justice, among others. Did the representative of the Ministry of the Interior or the members of the Commission present express an opinion as to when this problem could be resolved? As long as the problem is in the air, it is our duty to resolve it. Was there any mention of when we could say that this problem will no longer exist in Estonia and there is no need to put the subject on the agenda at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U104	Thank you for your question. I don't think we're gonna see this problem disappear completely in our lifetime. The non-nationalities are still in the countries and children are also born. But the question is whether this is a major problem, whether we are dealing with very many people of undefined nationality or not. The Estonian state has certainly taken a very long step towards reducing the problem. There will probably never be a situation where there are no stateless persons at all and no children are born.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U105	Juku-Kalle Raid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U106	Andres, you said it was this 160-headed contingent. The tendency to decrease is, and maybe this is where the yellow button is. But I still don't understand if this faction is going down pretty fast, why even deal with it today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have said several times that this draft law, however, corrects certain fundamental principles in Estonian citizenship policy and that our citizenship policy does not provide for citizenship without a declaration of intent. We have so far taken citizenship policy as a very rigid policy. We have talked a great deal about human resources, more specifically about the scarcity and constant decline of Estonian human resources. Do you not think that the current citizenship policy, which was born shortly after Estonia regained independence, is too rigid in our current human resource situation? Is it not even a moment for us to change the principles of Estonian citizenship policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U108	Personally, I don't think it's been too rigid. However, the Commission did not raise the question as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U109	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U110	Thank you, good waitress. Did the Commission also discuss the human question that Mr Ossinovski mentioned here? As for the hundreds of infants affected by this issue, it may be either the conscious choice of parents or the social problems of the family. Now, if the state were to get a little bit of a letter, but no one would really go on dealing with the family, would that be a good solution? Personally, it seems to me that it would be better for this child to deal consistently with such a family. Was this social problem and its solution discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U111	Thank you for your question. That question came up. Ruth Annus explained that there really are people among them who are constantly looking at social workers. So this problem exists and these people are definitely dealt with by the Estonian state. But as I have already said, the other side of this medal is that the status and rights of people with undefined citizenship in the Estonian country are well-off. But they're being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U112	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U113	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I was also present at this meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, thanks to this, I know that you have failed to mention one topic that was being discussed there and which I have paid attention to. And that is, while the number of stateless people is decreasing, the number of Russian citizens has increased significantly. Could you shed some light on this debate in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U114	I am sorry that I have left this out, but this debate has already been reflected here in the round of questions and answers to the large Chamber. And in my presentation, however, I referred to this in my opinion when I spoke in committee. Yes, Russian citizens in Estonia may be a problem. At the same time, there is a rather illusory hope that, if this is an informed choice for these people, with one national regulation, we will tell them this: we think that you should not make this choice. I do not believe that this would result in some qualitatively different result, so that we could get more informed citizens of the Republic of Estonia through this manipulation. It just doesn't happen. That is our position on the question of such an upset.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U115	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Was it also discussed in the Commission that Estonia has now been independent again for 20 years, but that we have here 15 to 20% less than 20 years ago? So has the current citizenship policy been supportive of our population decrease or increase? In fact, this is a very serious disadvantage, there are 15 to 20% fewer people, and in my opinion citizenship policy has also contributed to this reduction. Did you talk about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U117	Thank you, Mr. Rockvee! We were both in the previous Riigikogu on the Constitutional Committee and there the emigration from Estonia was also discussed. It's definitely a problem. However, as far as people of undefined citizenship are concerned in Estonia, it seems to me that they regard Estonia as quite a good place to live and that there has been no mass emigration.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U118	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U119	Thank you. I'm asking you again because you seem to be very familiar with the latest figures. You said that the children in this category are already under 1600. So in a few months, they've been reduced by 130. Do you know why this decrease has taken place? Have these people become Estonian citizens or have they become Russian citizens, or have they just become 15 years old and fallen out of that group, or have they, for example, left Estonia? Do you have any statistics like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U120	I think all these factors can be represented. However, as the representative of the government in the Commission said, there are much more children in the earlier years of birth, and therefore becoming 15 is one important reason why their number has fallen. As far as the most recent data are concerned, I have just received clarification from the Ministry of the Interior that, at the end of last week, we had 1593 persons under 15 years of undefined citizenship and 98481 persons residing in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit or right of residence.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U121	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U122	Thank you. It has been said repeatedly that the alternative to taking Estonian citizenship is to take Russian citizenship, and we have been walking like cats around hot porridge, discussing whether this number should be reduced or not. It has been asked what Russian citizens will do, for example, if there is a war between Estonia and Russia. The question is a little naive, because when the war breaks out, the citizens of the warring country will be interned. Have you thought about how many internships we should have in this case, and is it possible to intern these people all? Is that possible? Is this even a plan, or are we going to choose some other practice? And would it not be wise to reduce this potential, at least in the case of loyal ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U123	Thank you, Mr. Black! I must answer this question by not discussing it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I do not know which Riigikogu committee you belong to, but maybe you need to raise it in the National Defence Committee. I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U124	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U125	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that relatively good conditions were created in Estonia for people of undefined citizenship and that they themselves regard Estonia as a relatively good place to live in. We also know that one of our neighbouring countries has created more favourable conditions for these persons to enter than for people holding an Estonian citizen's passport. At the same time, I would like to give you the opportunity to refute the misrepresentation that may have remained, and which you certainly did not mean: how do you feel about undefined citizenship, whether or not it should be a desirable status?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U126	This should not be a desirable status, although certain visa rules may indeed have contributed to this. At the same time, however, it is the duty of a democratic state to guarantee the best possible legal status for people living in its territory. And it is important to me that Estonia is certainly not a country in which the rights of such people are violated, although often, due to the practice of certain other countries, an association may arise, that persons of undefined nationality have something other than citizenship, which has not been defined, certainly also missing. Fortunately, this is not the case in Estonia. But this status should not be desirable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U127	Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations now. I would like to ask for a chair of speech by Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group has at least proposed to offer citizenship to every newborn child in Estonia, and the Estonian Central Party Group agrees. I don't think there's a longer explanation. It is sufficient to recall that in 2008 there was also an analogous bill in this hall, only the waitress was of a different sex, that it was Evelyn Sepp was, and the number was second: 306. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs makes no less noble a proposal to stop processing this draft because it defends... what was it like?... the principles of citizenship policy. That is something that cannot be accepted, and like a decent person, I will explain this view. If my memory doesn't fool me, there were about 14,000 children born in Estonia last year. I mean, if the pace has not fallen, on average 40 children are born every day. Now it's not like it used to be, but imagine that in one of these rooms the size of our halls, the beautiful pink and light blue blankets are side by side. A malicious person could immediately ask that this is a model of our society: the Red Pass of the Russian Federation, the Blue Pass of the Republic of Estonia, but where are the grey blankets? There aren't any. I mean, there are boys and girls, nothing else. The babies have just eaten, sucked their breasts, and slept peacefully, but their sleep is not as carefree as they want. Since King Herod's time, small children have been threatened with some unpleasantness. And there's going to be trouble. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia, takes a piece of paper out of his pocket and starts to read with a loud voice: 'International law does not allow the granting of citizenship on a massive basis to persons who do not have a deeper connection with the state. " To whom does he say this? He says that to the children who were born yesterday! What would you do at their bedside? The minister continues: 'The international court thinks' here comes this main sentence! The usual residence of an alien, the central location of his or her interests, family ties and loyalty to the state, which is important for deciding on 'visits'. " Clear what interest they may have! One chokes, the other pees in the pampers. Let me remind you once again: we are not talking about their parents, we are talking about children, we are talking about newly born children. The Commission's co-rapporteur was unable to explain to me how the loyalty of the baby to the state could be controlled. That's the question that stays in the air. The minister reads: "It is important to stress that the principle that citizenship can be obtained by a person who is integrated into Estonian society applies when granting Estonian citizenship. ' This means that in the room where the 40 infants are, it is claimed that 30 Estonians have been integrated into society, but 10 are not. If so, please explain to me what integration is and how you intend to integrate these 24-hour children! Look, colleagues, anything good can sink, like Gerassim said when he drowned Mumuu in the pond. Can I have a little more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U129	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U130	In 1983 I was in Kazakhstan, and I was so lucky to have been given a can of meat produced in 1949. Our citizenship policy is like the same can. It's been standing in the freezer and no longer responding to our diet. At least it needs to be thawed up and checked, and it doesn't smell. So the Centre Party Group supports this bill and this dialogue and asks the Commission not to support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U131	Thank you! Now I would like to ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Since I was in a bit of a restrained position as a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs earlier on this board, I will now mark with a few words the views of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. This last speech, joking about what thoughts are in the head of newborn children and how they decide, was certainly not appropriate. This decision can indeed be made for these children by their parents, and in Estonia the principle is that citizenship runs by the ius sanguinis line, not by birth, and that is entirely appropriate. Now for some of the things that sounded pretty dramatic here today. First of all, the claim that the number of citizenship applicants is in decline is because it is difficult to obtain citizenship in Estonia. I went to France last week with our delegation, and there are several people here, and maybe there are others who want to come to the stand after me. After studying the citizenship policy there, it cannot be concluded that Estonian citizenship policy is particularly harsh. The reasons for the downward trend in the application for nationality have, hopefully, clearly emerged from today's questions-answers. This trend has emerged, in particular, because the status of persons of undefined nationality is well protected. Secondly, the problem of stateless persons has been solved very intensively in Estonia. As has already been said, we have now solved this for almost 20 years, with about half a million people of undefined nationality at the beginning. Since there's a certain degree of stabilization from this downward curve, it's perfectly logical and natural, so I don't see a very big problem here. Finally, the question of what to do with people who have deliberately chosen Russian citizenship. How to make them Estonian citizens in the future? This is certainly not solved by simply excluding this decision-making phase from the point of view that no decision is needed. Rather, it obscures people's perception of what is citizenship at all and what is a member of the citizenship of one country or another. We are of the opinion that these decisions must be made consciously either by children when they are slightly larger or by their parents. And the withdrawal of this possibility is indeed a change in one of the fundamental principles of citizenship policy. If one more paraphrasing of the debate between Jaak Allik and Juku-Kalle Raidi through the questioning process could be done, then one could say that non-identifiable children of ignorant parents can make a completely ignorant choice at the age of 15. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U133	Thank you! I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the initiator of the draft act, I certainly do not have to repeat here that we support the proposed draft and hope for the support and understanding of the Chamber. The Citizenship Act is one of the laws of the Republic of Estonia, which, thank God, have not been given to us from God, but has been accepted by us, and which we can certainly change when times and circumstances change, or even if we become more aware of the mistakes that have been written into or forgotten in this law. Our proposed amendment is not just a technical one. It is substantive and it is symbolic. And this mark is certainly positive ? ? No! About two years ago, right here in the Riigikogu, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder said: 'For children under 15 years of age who are stateless parents with a valid residence permit, Estonian citizenship could be granted by naturalisation if the parents do not object. To be clear, this is the acquisition of citizenship by naturalisation, not by birth. Such a move would be positive both for launching the debate and for real action to show that Estonia takes all its countrymen seriously. ' We have been talking for quite a while about the fact that we could reach Estonia on a good day and why not, in the already visible future, the fact that our people's relationship with our country can be characterised as patriotism based on Estonian citizenship. One of the rapporteurs said that stateless status or undefined citizenship should not be desirable; it should not be the normal status of a person living in one country. This means that the number of such people should decrease. Yes, it is true that this figure has decreased over the years, but it should certainly decrease further from the nearly 100,000 that this figure is now. There is also a question of which citizenship of the state these people will go out to those who, for example, have lived here for 15 years and have been in contact with the Estonian state and its systems. The question is: do we encourage these people? As an Estonian state, do we give them a signal that we want them to be our fellow citizens, or do we give them a different signal? Let us be honest, a completely neutral Estonian state cannot be on this issue. The Social Democrats certainly think that we should encourage these people to become Estonian citizens, be citizens with all the obligations and rights that result from them. The previous speeches also expressed the view that, as the number of these persons is statistically decreasing, the trend is positive, it is kind of pointless to deal with it. I think that if we can solve the problem of a thousand or a hundred or ten or even one person by correcting one or more of the laws, it is our duty, as Estonian legislators, to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U135	You said there would be an information campaign. Perhaps indeed, although I have a relatively large number of Russian friends who have not received much of this information. Some of the citizens it could be intended for are simply ignorant, meaninglessly ignorant. What is the point of dealing with meaninglessly ignorant people?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U136	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The Steering Committee has proposed to reject the draft 68 at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on the proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 47 members of the Riigikogu, against 40 and 2 abstentions. Draft 68 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. We have finished dealing with the fifth item.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U137	Citizenship policy has always been the subject of sharp discussions. I think that the Commission's debate was perhaps necessary to rediscover some of the issues, even if it were to be re-informed, that everything is actually in order in the Estonian country. However, as I have already said, the Commission's proposal is to reject the draft at first reading. This is now the question of the choice of the hall, whether we will continue to deal with it or not. The question for each member of the Riigikogu is why and for which he press one or the other key.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U138	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U139	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U140	Thank you. Dear waitress, France is working hard to integrate into its society both those who are not yet integrated, although they are born on French soil, and those who come from outside France. Everything is done on the basis of language, you know that. But that is not the question right now. The possibility of obtaining citizenship automatically does not apply to those born in France before the age of 15. So, in terms of liberalisation, there are countries in Europe that are comparable to us, we are not at all the most conservative, although perhaps we could be. The question is what is the case for the citizens of Russia to become a threat to us. Is Russia manipulating us, or can Russia intervene when Russian citizens are ill in Estonia? Which one's the right one?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U141	Firstly, I do not quite understand why France should give an example, we can also give other examples. France is perhaps not in the best position in terms of integration in Europe. For example, Germany and possibly Finland. But speaking of the other side of the question, it is a peculiar speculation about how someone else reacts to the way our citizenship policy is structured. I also indicated that there might be some consequences here, but the point of this bill is something else, regardless of what everyone else is doing around it. That is why I am not stressing that international organisations are demanding one, the other and the third. I am talking about the fact that it is important for the future of the Estonian state that we can bring as many people into our society as possible and make Estonia patriots.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U142	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U143	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I am sincerely pleased that the Social Democratic Party Group will come up with a draft that the Socialist Group voted against during the previous Riigikogu. That's it. Actually, here's my question. It's probably more of a symbolic step, because there may not be hundreds of families where both parents have grey passports, there are dozens of them. We have children to whom this simplified procedure applies, but both their parents may not be stateless, rather one of them is a Russian citizen, a citizen of Belarus or a citizen of another country. Do you have any statistics on how many of these kids could have?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U144	We will move on to the sixth item, which is the first reading of the Bill of Amendment of Income Tax Act and Social Tax Act § 3, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of the Riigikogu member Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! An analogous draft tabled by our group was also in the procedure of the previous collection and the aim was to solve the problems that have arisen between natural persons and the state at the moment when they pay taxes. At the time, half of this bill went into operation, which is why the Riigikogu considered it possible that if a natural person stops his activities, for example his father transfers his farm to his son, the state should not go between them with income tax. It is true that it has now become clear that the Minister's regulation specifying this possibility by law has not yet been adopted, but we will finally be able to ask the Minister for Finance when this regulation will be adopted. At the time, the other half of the bill was not resolved, and we are now proposing it to you again for the simple reason that we consider it right. The purpose of the draft amendment to the Income Tax Act and to § 3 of the Social Tax Act is very simple: to ensure the same conditions for the person who is employed in the event of illness and for the person who is self-employed. The point is that they are treated equally for the first three days and, from the ninth day onwards, in the same way, depending on how they have paid social tax or how they have paid social tax, they also receive sickness insurance. From day four to day eight, the employer continues to pay a salary to the person doing the work, but the natural person does not have anyone who can continue to pay him the salary in any way. The content of the proposal is simple: to compensate the self-employed part of their sick days on the basis that, if the employee is compensated for the loss of earnings, the self-employed part of his sick days could be taken into account by means of taxes for the self-employed part. It is not difficult to find this deductible amount, as the self-employed person has paid social tax before. This would be on the basis of his previously paid and declared income, i.e. by the days he is ill, he would have the right to reduce his income on the basis of the sick leave and therefore pay less taxes. Just as sickness benefits are subject to income tax for the recipient, the self-employed person should also be subject to tax on the deduction by way of income tax and hence the need to amend the Income Tax Act. It's as simple as that, nothing complicated. I call on everyone to support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U146	Thank you! Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress. Urve Tiidus, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U147	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will give you a small summary of how the draft law amending § 67 of the Income Tax Act and § 3 of the Social Tax Act was dealt with in the Committee by the Social Democrats. The Social Democratic Party Group submitted a draft on 8 June this year and it was on the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 18 October, last week. As the initiator's representative, Eiki Nestor presented the draft. The views of the Government of the Republic were presented in the discussion of the draft by Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Tanel Ruusmaa, who is the replacement of the chief specialist of this department, was also present. As Mr Nestor has already mentioned here, in the author's wording, the aim of the draft is to equalise the situation of self-employed persons, i.e. self-employed persons in their language, with regard to sickness benefits. The aim is to grant self-employed persons the right to deduct from business income the loss of business income due to illness 4. the data relating to the last year's personalised social security contributions submitted to the Tax and Customs Board would be the basis for the sickness-day payment and the deduction. According to the submitter's plan, the draft is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year. The debate in the committee was working and not as passionate as the debate in the second committee on the draft item on the previous item seemed to be. Mr Nestor gave an overview of the meaning, purpose and circumstances of this draft. He also said in the Commission that he was very pleased that one part of the earlier proposal on the same subject was adopted, which included another change in the situation of the self-employed. According to this, they can transfer their businesses to their children exempt from income tax. There are now several times before the Riigikogu the second half of this draft (the previous draft was 841 SE). During the discussion, the representative of the Ministry of Finance presented the positions of the Government of the Republic. The Government does not support the draft and the statement was already submitted by letter from the Ministry of Finance on 26 July. The recitals were as follows: It is said that the Income Tax Act is not an appropriate law to lay down regulation on health matters; these issues should rather be regulated in the Health Insurance Act. Although Eiki Nestor objected that self-employed persons can only be compensated for loss of income, not wages, which is why the Income Tax Act is the appropriate place. The same treatment of self-employed persons and employees is not justified, the Government's position is stated because the principles of working and related tax liability differ between self-employed persons and those working under a contract of employment. Let me explain this a little bit. As a result of this letter, the employee has a relationship of subordination with the employer, a small margin of discretion in the performance of his duties, as well as in the formation of the tax liability associated with his work, and the employer has an interest in verifying the justification for the payment of the benefit. The self-employed person is in a different situation, does not have a relationship of subordination, is mostly his own boss, is free to design the time, place and volume of work, and has greater opportunities to shape his own tax liability. It was also pointed out that the burden on the tax authorities in checking the declarations submitted would be disproportionate to the effect of the tax credit and that the draft would give the Minister of Finance the powers that should be laid down in the law in accordance with the Constitution. That was one of the reasons why this draft is not acceptable. Paragraph 113 of the Constitution states that all elements of the tax law relationship must be determined by law, but this draft gives the Minister of Finance greater powers. The Commission had further questions about the financial impact of the draft law. It was said that there was no negative impact. Some tax-specific issues were addressed, for example, that the self-employed person would have a direct obligation to declare income tax and that it was not very sure whether it would please the self-employed. That was the information from the Treasury Department. The Commission took the following decisions: It was unanimously decided to send the draft to the first reading today. There was also a vote on how to deal with the draft, and it was decided to reject the draft at first reading. It was supported by six and against five members of the Commission. That was the Commission's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U148	Thank you, good waitress! You have at least one question. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did the debate in the Commission also mention the'second round effect' of our draft, i.e. the possibility for self-employed persons to receive 4.8. A sickness benefit for a sick day would motivate self-employed persons to pay their social security contributions better and more honestly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U150	The Commission did not address this issue. I know it was on the agenda when the bill was processed here last time, but this time it was not on the agenda. Personally, I say that I believe in people's tax compliance and honesty first and foremost.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U151	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu, 25 against, no abstentions. Draft 67 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The sixth item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U152	We will proceed to the seventh item, which is the first reading of the Bill 69 of Amendment of the VAT Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair as a member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U153	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce you to a bill that provides for lower VAT for the room warm. Our proposal is to reduce VAT from 20% to 9%. The purpose of this draft is to reduce the high heating costs of homeowners by reducing indoor heating VAT. The home owner is a person who has a place of residence where he or she has developed a sense of home. Looking at the price increases in autumn this year, we see that in some cases the warm price has risen by up to 40%. Since 2007, there has been a significant increase in the price of heating and this has led to an increase in the share of housing costs in the Estonian household's wallet. For example, the heating costs of a three - room apartment have increased 64% in four years. A general increase in the price of heat sources, as well as changes related to VAT, has raised the price of indoor heating. If we still live in a region of the world where winters are cold, living should not be a punishment for our people. It is not normal to delay heating houses in autumn to save money, resulting in moldy apartments and runny children. It is common practice that heating costs in the previous winter will be stopped by the start of the next heating period. And then there's the question of where to find the money to renovate and heat these homes, apartments. The heating of rooms is not a luxury product, but a primary need for people, such as food or medicines. High utilities not only concern owners of private houses, but also owners of apartments. According to Swedbank's private information centre, the share of housing costs in the average household's wallet has increased from 14.3% to 18.8% in a very short period of time. 68% of Estonians live in apartment buildings, of which 70% are older than 30 years. Due to cold winters, the heating costs of the population have increased significantly in recent years. While this bill mainly alleviates the home expenses of homeowners who live in apartment buildings where district heating is used, the faction of the Centre Party has also granted an amendment to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which will reduce the amount of electricity excise duty from 1 January 2013 to the European Union's minimum amount of EUR 1. It protects homeowners who use electricity to heat their home. With these two drafts, the Centre Party protects all Estonian homeowners. The reduction in heating costs is a win-win for all homeowners, unlike the abolition of the tax on homeland, where the owner of the dwelling wins significantly more than the owner of the dwelling. Add here the fact that specially labelled fuel will disappear from the new year, and some of the owners of the apartments, the owners of the house, will have an additional one-third increase in the price of heating. Speaking of house-cooked VAT, you have to remember history. For seven years, VAT was 5% for room temperature, but on 10 December 2003 it was decided to increase VAT to 18%. Thus, as of 1 July, VAT was transferred to natural persons, housing and housing associations, churches and congregations, to persons in hospital and to legal persons or bodies financed from state, rural municipality and city budgets to 18%. While until 2007 natural gas used mainly for central heating was exempt from excise duty, on 14 June 2007 it was decided that it would be increased to 157 kroons per 1000 m3 of gas. So, at the same time, both the increase in VAT and the increase in excise duty had an impact. As you all remember very well, three negative supplementary budgets were made in 2009. With the second negative supplementary budget, the VAT rate on goods and services was raised from 18% to 20% in July 2009, for all goods for which no derogations were applicable. Thus, the price added tax rate was also increased by 2%. In addition, excise duties on natural gas and other fossil fuels were increased. Natural gas excise has risen from zero to 367 kroons per 1000 m3. Gas consumers were comforted by the fact that the price of gas on the world market is falling, but since the price of gas is linked to the price of liquid fuel, there has also been a high price increase. In several regions, housing associations are unable to pay for heat in time to heat producers, and this creates debts that will be paid until the start of the next heating period. This is how it lasts from year to year, and the free money used to heat homes cannot be created by humans. Continuous increases in indirect taxes have led us to a situation where homeowners have to bear a heavy burden in order to implement the state budget. The fall in VAT would signal to people that the state cares about them, and they should not seek a new place of residence in warmer countries. As people's purchasing power has been declining for a long time, it is time to think about cutting the price of warm VAT. It should also suit both coalition partners who are fighting to reduce home expenses and to reduce taxes. People would have more free money and use it as they see fit. When is it even better to reduce taxes than at a time when we have good economic growth in the country? The explanatory memorandum also provides an analysis of this draft law. The draft does not conflict with the rights of the European Union. Under the law, VAT would decrease from 20% to 9% from 1 January next year. Its expenditure on the budget would be EUR 17.1 million, and we see progressive income tax as a source of expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U154	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you remember the election ad this year, I'm sure you do. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association promised to halve public utility costs. At the same time, you are currently presenting a bill to help them keep their promise, at least a tenth or an eleventh of the total cost of heat. In view of the balance of utilities expenditure, 5% would already be available. Why do you think they don't support things that clearly help to keep their election promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U156	Thank you for your question. A lot was promised before the elections, but I know that several promises have already been withdrawn. This would indeed be one concrete measure by which we could reduce the home costs of all homeowners. And I will say once again that we live in a harsh climate where there is winter, when people's wallets still go 20% only to housing costs. What else do we have money for? But why they don't support the bill, that's probably what they should be asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U157	Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Last week, in his presentation, the Auditor General pointed out the fact that the share of fixed expenditure in our state budget has increased to 75%, i.e. there is only one quarter of the money that is freely redistributed. One reason for this is that tax revenues have already been directed forward. We still have only two taxes, which are collected at 100% of the budget, and these are VAT and heavy duty. When you gave your draft procedure, you were aware that this bill would reduce VAT receipts. Do you really think that we should further increase fixed costs and reduce the share of funds that are freely redistributable?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U159	Thank you, questioner. The question is where VAT will be taken from. VAT can be taken from where it does not directly affect people's well-being and their living conditions in our harsh winter. Of course, the VAT receipts will be reduced by this, but I think that people will use the money released differently and the VAT will not be collected by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U160	No further questions. Thank you, Tarmo Tamm! The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 25 October 2011 until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Before we go any further on the agenda, we must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union to extend today's plenary session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal. Since the presence of 95 members of the Riigikogu requires 63 votes in favour for the extension, the proposal was not supported. I would like to ask for the next presentation of the chair of the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U161	Thank you. The draft was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 17 October when Tarmo Tamm presented the draft and the opinion of the Government of the Republic was presented by Mr Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Excise and Customs Policy at the Ministry of Finance. The government of the Republic didn't like the bill very much. And why didn't you? The reasons were summarised as follows: namely, the fact that VAT is a general consumption tax for revenue in the state budget and that those who do not actually need state support will also benefit from a reduced rate. Grants must be needs-based, not the same for all. In addition, it was also said that general support for heat energy through the tax system contributes to excessive consumption and does not motivate savings and environmental savings, which I think means that if heating is cheaper, then more heat will be available in a hot room. On the money side, it was pointed out that a reduction in the VAT rate to 9% could cost around EUR 18 million due to lower revenues. In general, the Government of the Republic considers direct aid to those in need to be a more effective measure. The following issues arose in the Commission. It asked what the initiator felt was the way to compensate for the EUR 18 million missing from the budget. The originator's response was that through graduated income tax. There were also members on the Commission who thought that the justification of the advantage was questionable because the larger beneficiaries were the owners of luxury premises and, for some reason, Kadriorg's apartments in particular were given an example. The originator's comment was that 68% of people live in apartment buildings and cannot choose their type of heating, in addition, the number of beneficiaries of income support would decrease, as heating costs are currently also included in income support. The Commission then asked why the initiators preferred thermal energy rather than, for example, children's goods. The originator confirmed that the idea of reducing VAT on children's goods has not been abandoned, but in general heat energy is a good place to reduce VAT, as the Competition Authority limits the price and therefore would relatively well reach the end user. The problem was also raised that rural people do not benefit greatly from this reduction in VAT, as many people use wood heating in the country. The originator commented that the VAT reduction is a good way of mitigating the overall situation and compared it with the idea of freeing the land under the land tax. In addition, the initiator mentioned at the meeting of the Commission that local authorities would benefit from this change. Finally, the initiators were asked whether they considered this to be a good draft. The originator confirmed that they considered this to be a good draft, but despite this response, the Commission decided to reject the draft at first reading. The voices were close, but they were definitely 6: 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U162	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Rannar Vasiliev. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Since the proposal of the lead committee was to reject the draft at first reading, we need to vote it through. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 69 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and against the proposal. The proposal was supported and the draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U163	The eighth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Social Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. The rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U164	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, According to the European Commission, Estonia needs to step up active labour market policies by introducing measures involving young people and the long-term unemployed and regions with high unemployment. The purpose of the draft is to encourage the rapid implementation of the disabled person or young person (in the sense of the Youth Work Act) and to revive the economy at a time when the unemployment rate in Estonia is 14.4%. Ladies and gentlemen, The coalition's desire to exhaust today's agenda in this room coincides with my desire to be somewhere else, because today it is a rare case where much more important and interesting is happening outside this hall, namely in the castle square. So that's it, and I'll be happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U165	Thank you. There are questions. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I'm glad you've come up with this. Have you considered other measures to address this problem? It is certainly easy to play with social tax differences, but perhaps some other measures will contribute more to reducing unemployment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U167	Thank you for your question. Yes, we have considered and the measures we intend to offer you are quite and quite a lot. It is to be feared that with the same result as this and all the previous proposals have been made. So I am not going to tell you now, we will talk in the Commission and later in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U168	No further questions. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I ask for a presentation of Mr Andrus Saare, member of the Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U169	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Social Tax Act, initiated by the Central Party Group, was on the agenda of the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 18 October. a. Mikhail Stalnukhin presented the draft as the initiator's representative. The views of the Government of the Republic were presented in the discussion of the draft by Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. The purpose of the draft, although very briefly, Mr Stalnukhin, was introduced here: the aim is to encourage the rapid deployment of the disabled and young people who have lost their jobs and thus to boost the economy. A debate in the Commission. According to the initiator's representative, the basic position of the draft is that the state pays social tax when employing a disabled person or young person who has been unemployed for six months. Social tax is paid by the State for a period of 12 months, not exceeding a minimum rate of pay of two per month. The views expressed by the representative of the Ministry of Finance, representing the Government of the Republic, in the Commission were as follows: The Government of the Republic does not support the draft. Letters from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs were also submitted. In Estonia, people with disabilities or lack of work experience who find it difficult to find a job are already subject to a number of measures to encourage recruitment, such as wage support, exercise services, various forms of support for the recruitment of disabled persons. The Unemployment Insurance Fund provides the unemployed with employment services and other assistance necessary for access to employment and partially compensates the employer for the cost of the work place and of the reorganisation of the work equipment after the employment of the disabled person. Under the current law, the state pays social tax on the person receiving the disability pension at the monthly rate on which the social tax is paid. The employer shall pay the social tax for the part of the salary exceeding it. If necessary, the disabled person can use the service to work with the support person. According to the Income Tax Act, the use of a disabled person's personal motor vehicle between the place of residence and the place of employment is not taxed on income tax. An unemployed person aged 16 to 24 can be employed with a wage subsidy if he has been unemployed for more than six consecutive months and has not found a job. According to the Social Tax Act, the employer has the right to pay social tax on actual salary for the person who was unemployed before taking up employment. There are more of these measures. It must be acknowledged that the debate in the Commission was not very long. People were discussing the age of a person in the sense of the Youth Work Act. That's seven to twenty-six. to 1 year of age. Among the members of the Commission, the opinion remained that the necessary measures to facilitate access to employment for young people and disabled persons had already been put in place in the form of various employment services and grants. On the basis of all this information, the Commission has taken the following decisions: to send the draft to the first reading today (this decision was consensual) and to reject it at first reading (with 6 votes against 5 members of the Commission). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U170	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You didn't shed any light on the whole committee debate. There was a small debate going on when the representative of the Ministry of Finance mentioned that the cost of administration of the land tax exemption of the land under land, which was the subject of a very heated debate, was almost as high as the amount of the exemption. There was a small debate on this subject, perhaps you could talk about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U172	I did not consider it a very polite to praise the exemption of the land under home. There was so much to be said when a representative of the Ministry of Finance commented on the statement in the paper that the administration of taxes could not be very expensive. It was for opposition politicians that this was a very lively subject for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U173	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U174	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Did your committee also have statistics in the debate, or was there information on it? For example, you mentioned the use of a support person at a disabled person's workplace as a service. Do you have any statistics about how much it is used in Estonia and how it is possible because the state does not finance this service and it depends very much on the municipality. True, it is possible to apply for it in the short term through the Employment Services, but did you also have data on use to date during the debate on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U175	We have to admit that we did not have any statistics on this and that was not asked. Only measures that could be used were introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-25_U176	No further questions for you. Thank you, Andrus Island! Any requests? There's no call. Since the proposal of the lead committee was to reject the draft at first reading, we must vote it through. We're going to the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 26 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported and the draft has been rejected at first reading. To date, the agenda items have been discussed and the session has been adjourned. Thank you very much for your participation. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 12.49 p.m.
