ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable members of the government. Let's start this year's final briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! There are 46 comms registered to be present, 55 missing. The following members of government will take part in today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U2	Let's start with the first question. Please, Valeri Korb, question to Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I ask my question on the basis of the address of the inhabitants of the city of Sillamäe to find out for what purpose the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is holding back the process of clarifying the Jõhvi-Narva road section of the thematic plan for Ida-Viru County. The City Council of Sillamäe and the City Government of Sillamäe have on several occasions formally opposed the aim of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to push transit traffic out of the city space to a distant future, 2040 and beyond. The public, or local government, has coordinated the plans to direct transit traffic out of the city space of Sillamäe, to build railway viaducts and bypasses in the coming years. Why the Ministry and the Road Administration consistently ignore this view, while profitability...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U4	Please, it's been one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U5	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U6	I don't think the question came up, but I'm kind of guessing what we're talking about. This concerns the section of the Narva road in Sillamäe. For information, the Road Administration and I have initiated long-term thematic plans for all major routes in Estonia to fix the possibility of developing highways 2 + 2 with a long-term view. This applies to the highways of Tallinn, Narva, as well as Tallinn, Tartu, Luhamaa and Tallinn, Pärnu and Ikla. When it makes sense to build a 2+2 route in one or the other section depends on the frequency of traffic and the availability of money. When you're talking about passing through Sillamäe, I took out the relevant data just before I came here. There is no traffic frequency where we could talk about 2 + 2 roads, not to mention this long-term view that one day the road could pass Sillamäe. This is the reality of the current situation. I know that this plan is not over, the discussions with local governments and county government are continuing. I would call for a realistic solution as of today. I do not want to say that this could be the final solution, but it could be a realistic solution to improve road safety and traffic management on the Tallinn road through the city of Sillamäe. In addition, an important reconstruction of the existing route, taking into account the existence of the Port of Sillamäe and the increasing turnover of goods, including the construction of a multi-level railway viaduct within the existing route. I do not want to say that the alternative you have mentioned is not possible, but I repeat: this alternative is too expensive and does not correspond to the current actual traffic load.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U7	Please, Mr Valeri Korb, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U8	Thank you for your answer. In their address, the inhabitants of Sillamäe want to know one more thing. I will also ask you this question, Mr Minister. Is the main road of Tallinn located on the main road of Narva located on the 183 km Sillamäe?Vaivara railway branch overpassed on the existing main road or is it built on the planned bypass route, which would greatly disturb the well-being of the citizens of the city?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U9	First, there are residents with different opinions. At least I have been told that a different opinion is also very clear on Sillamäe. If we ever take this traffic out of the city of Sillamäe completely in the future, it may happen as with many other cities: the traffic load, which in some ways also benefits the city, will disappear from the city altogether. That's one. Secondly, if we want a practical solution for the next 10 to 15 years, then once again: it seems realistic to me now to significantly improve the traffic management of the Narva road, including the construction of an overpass on the railway. I am deeply convinced that this is very much in the interests of all the people of the city of Sillamäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U10	A question registered on the spot, Mr Kaljuvee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U11	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! I, too, have met the city leaders and other residents of Sillamäe with this issue. I asked them if the fact that the road was passing through town might not be a minus. Maybe it has a lot of pros. They didn't quite understand it. I have a question: do you think the Ministry has explained to the city enough the pros and cons that a road across the city could bring?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U12	As for the passage of this road from the city, it goes through the territory of the city, but if we look at the city as the real living environment of the people, the centre of Sillamäe is still far from that road. I believe that more clarification must certainly be done, the planning process is not yet complete. I'll give you the numbers we're talking about, just in case. If we were to build a railway viaduct on the road now and do other traffic management solutions, the estimated cost would be EUR 18 million. The cost of what Mr Korb is talking about is, I imagine, 80 to 100 million euros. I guess it's a little bit different, huh? You have to read the money here, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U13	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U14	The next question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U15	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister of Education, You have recently talked a great deal about free higher education, while the place fees paid by parents and the cost of a meal day are increasing throughout Estonia. So it's going to cost your parents more and more to go to kindergarten. Many parents, mostly mothers, raise children alone and receive a minimum wage or a hundred or more euros more. Social Democrats believe that at least in the parent group of kindergartens, kindergarten attendance should be free of charge, so that no place pay or food money is required, so that early childhood education is available to all children. My question is this: how does the state intend to ensure the realisation of this right and do you consider it important to make early childhood education available to every child?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U16	Good questioner! Pre-school education is certainly an important part of the whole education system. In addition to educational functions, the pre-school childcare facility also performs a childcare function and therefore belongs not only to education but also to the social sector. As regards the rules for the provision of early childhood education and care in Estonia, as agreed in Parliament, this obligation is imposed on the local government in subsection 10 (1) of the Pre-school Children's Institutions Act. I have no reason to doubt that local authorities carry out these statutory tasks with sufficient care, paying attention to all the social aspects that should be addressed in the provision of this service. All the costs involved are also within the competence of the local government and, in my opinion, interference with them is not justified at national level. The well-considered decisions taken at local government level are believed to be in the interests of people living on the territory of the local government and are guaranteed by the democratic process of selecting the local government. In addition, approximately €350 million has been allocated from public sources to local government units in 2011-2015, which can be used to invest in kindergartens, schools, cultural houses, youth centres, etc. This is important support for local authorities, and I hope that the necessary infrastructure will be realised with the support of this, in particular of the HOME Plan and the money from the sale of Kyoto allowances.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U17	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U18	Thank you. Dear Minister, Should teachers providing early childhood education not be more valued than before? After all, much depends on the child's first years of life, how he will continue to live. Today, kindergarten teachers and auxiliary teachers are clearly overburdened and underpaid. What do you think of such a system if, in at least two older kindergarten groups, kindergarten teachers would receive a salary from the state budget based on a bounty similar to school teachers? Then the minimum wage for kindergarten teachers across the country would also be the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U19	Good questioner! However, I hope that all local government employees will receive a statutory remuneration from the local government budget, as they are expected to do and as the local government council has recognised. As we know, the salary paid to municipal school teachers cannot be satisfied at the moment either. Public support for this has grown over the years. However, the amounts that local authorities have added to the salaries of teachers in general education schools have been quite different. There are local authorities who have found the possibility to pay teachers 20-30% more. As far as I am aware, the same kind of disproportion prevails with regard to the remuneration of pre-school staff. I very much hope that the principles that were introduced at the time in the area of the remuneration of teachers in general education schools will continue to be respected, and I am thinking of the principle of ensuring at least a uniform minimum through public support. But the Ministry of Education and Research has made raising teachers' salaries a first priority. We hope to make this work in preparing the 2013 budget. In view of this, I very much hope that if the state, for its part, is able to contribute further to the salaries of teachers in order to ensure an acceptable level of pay for them, then the local authorities will do the same with the salaries of pre-school teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U20	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U21	Thank you. I was actually asking about the pay of kindergarten teachers, and you were talking to a large extent about the pay of schoolteachers. I've had a lot of contact in Tartu with kindergarten teachers, their problems. I have one more question for you: what would you personally do in 45 minutes if you were with 24 five-year-old children?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U22	Thank you for a good question. I'd like to deal with the duties set out in the code of conduct. But I still stress: putting responsibility in employment relationships on someone else's necks doesn't solve any problems. Each employee must reach a reasonable agreement with his employer and each employer's employees on matters relating to salaries. The local government has its own revenue base, its own budget, its own democratic procedures for setting priorities, and I very much support all local authorities in raising the salaries of pre-school staff. In any case, the Ministry of Education and Research is looking for internal reserves for the benefit of teachers and other employees working in state schools as early as 2012. I am convinced that internal reserves exist in all systems, and I wish all partners every success in finding them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U23	I would now like to ask three questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague, Kaia Iva.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U24	Thank you. As you pointed out, early childhood education is a matter of local authority competence and of its autonomy. Practices in different municipalities are undoubtedly different. However, state support has been beautifully consistent in terms of investments and the construction and renovation of kindergartens. If we look at the previous financing period, the regional fund's money supported 63 kindergartens, and even 55 kindergartens during the current financing period. Thus, half of the projects were to support kindergartens and have created more than 2000 new kindergarten places. Has the scheme been negotiated in this respect for the next financing period? What is your view that this continued support for the renovation of kindergartens and the creation of new places will continue to be a priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U25	It has quite rightly been pointed out that public support for investment has been significant, that the number of kindergarten places has increased. The European Union's objectives in terms of pre-school education and childcare have already been met in the Republic of Estonia. And I am not saying this to reduce the importance of the tasks that lie ahead in this area, including raising wages and creating additional seats. But the state of affairs in this area certainly cannot be regarded as critical or tragic, as it has sometimes sounded. As far as the longer term perspective is concerned, there is certainly a need to create more childcare facilities, particularly in the light of the migratory processes that have taken place. The real problem is mainly in Harjumaa and Tartu County, even more narrowly around Tartu. I believe that funds will also be found to support this sector further in the coming financial period, but, as you are well aware, the priority-setting process is still under way. However, it is clear that the Structural Funds could also reach pre-school childcare facilities in the next financial period. To what extent, the debate is a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U26	Please, Mr Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U27	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, Heljo Pikhof came up here with an interesting mathematical or I don't know what formula. You, Minister, have a wide range of models and formulas in the vault. Why don't you explain that if everything is free in kindergarten from some age and at the same time we start raising the salaries of educators or kindergarten teachers, how would that be technically and practically possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U28	Well, we all know that free means someone else will pay. The extent to which the costs of pre-school institutions should be covered by the state instead of the local government or parents is indeed a matter of political choice. But I remember this regime, where everything was supposed to be free and the money was supposed to be gone. I do not share this ideal, and yet I try to organise a life in the field of education in such a way that a fair and affordable burden falls on all stakeholders according to the possibilities available. Indeed, for families in need of support, there should be targeted needs-based support so that children do not suffer. Such a mechanism exists in Estonia. To completely switch to free services in any area is, in my opinion, unjustified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U29	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Thank you for your very thorough answers. I have a question that requires a very short answer. I wish there wouldn't be an echo in this hall, so local authorities are the bad ones who aren't worried about the pay of kindergarten teachers. How do you feel about the fact that local authorities could not have raised their wages, also the fact that the state was cutting municipal revenues? Municipalities would have been able to channel this money into wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U31	Good questioner! That is the last thing I would like to do to blame the local authorities for anything in their decisions. Local councils have made their decisions in accordance with the wishes of the council members and the population. It is not up to me to tell them what they have done right or wrong. In general, I believe that the local residents are satisfied with the service offered to them, whether in Tallinn or in another local government. As for the evil state that takes money away from someone, you should not be surprised by the fact that not only the Republic of Estonia, but almost the whole world, suffered a rather serious economic crisis in 2008-2010. The savings at that time were well-founded and reasonable. This was done at all levels, from families, local authorities, the state and businesses. I believe that the willingness and ability to save as it was done gave us a much better starting position in order for our economy to grow as we see it now and also to be sustainable. Taking additional commitments in this situation is premature in my view, but it is a little irresponsible to pass the blame on to a third party. We are still jointly trying to resolve the issues facing the Estonian state and the Estonian economy in accordance with our financial opportunities and economic progress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U32	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U33	The next question is from my colleague Neeme the Great to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. On 11 October, you proposed to the Minister of the Interior to increase the number of residence permits related to entrepreneurship by 60. In doing so, you increased the profitability of the trade in residence permits of Mr Raudse and Mr Stelmach, which was the basis of their business plan. Hence the question: how did your decision come to make such a proposal? Was it some kind of analysis or somebody's advice? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U35	First, I suggest you be careful with the questions. Don't put it all together. This proposal is largely based on the current policy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in this area. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has, perhaps for the last four years, focused mainly on two issues relating to residence permits and, in fact, to work permits and visas in general. These issues concern highly qualified workers, who are primarily needed by companies who do not have a workforce in Estonia and who are in international competition. For them, the problem is not so much the limit as the high level of bureaucracy. That's one thing. The second topic is that if investment is made in Estonia, I am talking about real investments, no investment should be left behind the residence permit or other necessary state permits. These are our two main points of pain. I will look at these figures in this same letter, which has also been a lot under discussion in the press and which has presented various links. According to the statistics of 30 November, residence permits for entrepreneurship have been issued in 141 countries, currently in the process 34. All in all, that's 175. When the government increased the threshold and the Minister of the Interior began to distribute these sub-quotas, his offer was 110 in the business area. In other words, we can say that the proposal of the experts from the Ministry of Economic Affairs had in mind the real need. I am not making an assessment here as to whether these business permits are, as has been claimed by the public, fictitious, and that is a separate issue. To be honest, we don't have much information.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U36	Please, if you would like to ask, press the button quickly! Please, Mr Neeme Big, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U37	Thank you. You were talking about investments. Did you have an analysis of how many real investments have been made by those who have obtained business-related residence permits?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U38	The Ministry of Economic Affairs does not have a precise analysis of how much investment specifically relates to residence permits. I expect a concrete analysis of individual business permits. However, if we look at a wider and longer period, we see an increase in investment from third countries in the real economy, and we are talking about countries that need a residence permit. We have seen what countries they have been from this year. If the public has the impression that they are only from Russia, that is not true. There are applicants for a residence permit from the United States, Australia, as far as I know, from India. It is true that the figures concerned are relatively small. We also have to take into account that investments may be expected to be a residence permit, but may not be expected, and, by the way, this is also provided for by law. This must be assessed by our migration officials as to whether or not a residence permit is needed to make the investment needed in a particular company.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U39	Please, Mr Neeme Big, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U40	Thank you. The second question to be clarified is: have citizens Raudne and Stelmach, or their representatives, been present at meetings in your ministry on the subject, round tables or other decision-making processes?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U41	That information's been through the press, too. On 14 November, a round table was held involving business associations, the Development Fund, many other institutions that discussed the amendment of the Aliens Act. I would point out that the topic of this Aliens Act was initiated by the government and the Ministry of the Interior in spring. We have tried to make proposals that respect the interests and needs of the Estonian economy. The relevant round table took place, as I said, on 14 November, with the participation of these parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U42	Now, the questions registered on the spot. First, Mr Anvelt, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I was, of course, puzzled that you were warning us about the questions that we should be careful with them. In my opinion, you should rather be careful in your decisions and your answers. But here's my question. You have said that you are not familiar with Indrek Raud's economic interests. Was the Minister interested in any way or had Indrek Raudse's economic interests checked when he appointed him to the Tallinn Port Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U44	Any person who is a member of the board of directors of a company shall make a declaration of financial interests and those declarations shall be verified. It shall also be verified whether those persons have any conflicts of interest relating to the activities of that particular undertaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U45	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You have just said, in answer to a question from a colleague, that you do not have an overview of investments relating to specific residence permits, such data do not exist. But let's look at it geographically, maybe on the side of the address. Those 147 good investors, even though they had a couple of criminal authorities, were all registered at one address on Kooli street. Very interesting experience! There are so many houses in Tallinn if there were 147 in each house, it would still be amazing. It would be interesting, however, to get a clearer picture. Do you suddenly have an overview of the amount of investments involved when it comes to the group of investors that was nesting on the streets of the School?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U47	Once again, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is still monitoring the general statistical data here. We, too, are now considering, above all, the problem raised by this, whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs or Enterprise Estonia could in any way support the decisions of migration officers regarding the need for one or the other residence permit. I would point out that, as far as I am aware, there is an additional requirement in the current law, in addition to the size of investment capital, that each investment must be in line with the needs of the state's development, which is a general requirement in the Aliens Act. Secondly, a residence permit must be necessary in view of the particular entrepreneurship. These things need to be assessed by migration services. Whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the EAS should support such decisions in any way is the forum for discussion. I'd rather not. We would like to see a law that provides very clear, objective criteria so that migration services also have fewer options for consideration. This would actually be the ideal solution, not that we are going to decide by one face or another, whether or not the investment is necessary for Estonia. It is quite clear that we are talking about real investments, whether they are made in a real enterprise, in real estate or whether they are investment in securities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U48	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U49	Thank you. Juhan, as your depressed member, I'd like to know why you didn't resign after the residence permit scandal. Did you go through that thought yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U50	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U51	Honestly, he stopped by. But I have to admit that I do not feel politically responsible for what has been accused of and what relates to the fact that the decisions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been based on someone's private interests. That's what I said when I answered Neeme the Great question. The decisions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs on this matter have not been based on any private interest. Our task is to know the needs of different business groups or interest groups, but it is our business to be in the public interest and we have done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U52	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. There are several kinds of residence permits, and I very much hope that due to business-related permits, the bureaucracy on work-related residence permits will not increase. Rather, this bureaucracy needs to be reduced. But the question is about business-related residence permits. Since these applications are indeed accompanied by a very clear business plan, has the Ministry of Economic Affairs checked their compliance with the business plan or is it planned to do so in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U53	I said before, I haven't checked. That is not our task. We still monitor general trends in investment in Estonia, general trends, sector-specific approaches. For us, the investments that the people who make the permit want are not a very wide-ranging problem, given Estonia's attractiveness as a destination country for foreign investment at all. We are still interested in the country of foreign investment in general, not so much in specific details. But the fact that the barriers to the bureaucracy of migration must not become an obstacle to obtaining the necessary investments for Estonia is certainly our wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U54	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. On Monday, opposition parties in Parliament proposed the creation of a special committee to investigate the scandal on residence permits. What is your position as one of the parties involved in setting up this special committee, and also your position as a home party?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U56	Obviously, it is up to the Riigikogu to decide. I will certainly express my willingness to cooperate fully with this Commission when it is formed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U57	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U58	Thank you. A few days ago, news from media publications could be found that one of the largest Latvian business banks also publicly sold the service of obtaining residence permits. The website had price lists outside, etc. How do you comment on this? And should the Baltic States perhaps develop a common policy in this area in order to prevent unpleasant cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U59	These decisions are, insofar as they are not within the competence of Europe, certain immigration decisions are, after all, within the common competence of the European Union, still within the competence of the Member States themselves. I also have the data available to all those involved to look at how European countries compete in the area of investments that require a residence permit. Pretty tough competition, I suggest you meet him! If we look at different countries, I will mention Austria, Switzerland, Belgium, Great Britain and Canada, for example, as well as Bulgaria, Latvia and the Czech Republic, which have taken very clear national steps to attract investments of the kind accompanied by certain regulations in the Migration Code. We probably have this place of choice, given the sharpness of the problem in society and the reaction of society. There is certainly a difficult question before us whether we are even interested in this type of investment and in increasing the attractiveness of our country. It's a question. As Minister for Economic Affairs, all I can say is that in the current global competition, we must not take steps to reject investment. And once again, I am talking about real investments. I am not talking about any fictitious, really speculative investments or black money, which has been mentioned here today. In summary, I think that in this debate we must take very seriously the need to keep our attractiveness still, not to reduce it. If we can agree on something and increase the attractiveness of the country, it would certainly benefit the Estonian economy and the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U60	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U61	Please, the next question is from my colleague, Yana Toom, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U62	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! The Ministry of Education and Research, of course, promised that the response to schools that applied for a Russian-language study permit at upper secondary school would be given in December. Today we have December 14th, but there is no such decision. Unless this is a state secret, can I ask when it is planned to be discussed in the government? And are you going to discuss and take into account such things as the Memorandum of the NGO Russian School in Estonia, which has been forwarded to you, and the fact that 13 000 signatures have been collected today against the unprepared transition?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U63	Good questioner! As has been said, I promised to present this material to the government meeting in December, and I hope that the government meeting in which it will be discussed will be on 22 December, or next week. Of course, all this time, which has passed since this application until today, has been a very close cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Research and the schools that applied to solve school issues in connection with the transition to Estonian education of 60%, which is expected to end in almost two and a half years. As of today, it can be said that there are still some schools whose transition problems can be considered serious. I very much hope that continuing cooperation with all these schools will resolve the objective problems of the transition over the coming years. When it comes to collected signatures, such political actions often carry a very strong emotional charge. Closer investigations and clarification among people who have signed petitions or requests have shown that there is generally little information and little involvement in this complex process. The Ministry of Education and Research is definitely planning to deepen engagement and joint discussions in the coming years. In spite of the work done today, there is no full consensus, but most of the stakeholders involved come with this reform in a constructive spirit.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U64	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U65	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You also know that numerous studies have been carried out which prove that the transition will lead to an improvement in the knowledge of the Estonian language, while the students fear that their knowledge will remain incomplete. There's one substance that's essentially being monitored. This is what the National Institute for Health Development is doing, who monitors such a thing as sexual education, which is taught in human teaching. And the results are very sad. And these sad results are due to the fact that this subject is taught in Estonian, but it is a subject that requires discussions that teachers cannot create in these classes. And the consequence is that if, for example, a preservative does not consider it necessary to use 8% of Estonian teenagers in sexual intercourse, the percentage among the Russians is already 21. Don't you think this could...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U66	Please, the question time is one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U67	Question, please, hurry up!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U68	Do you not think that you should monitor other subjects in essence, not just from the point of view of the Estonian language?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U69	I am certainly asking for more information on this example. But when it comes to monitoring how learning takes place in non-native languages, it has been studied in almost all countries of the world for decades. Mostly, with a large majority of countries today, school education is compulsory, not to mention education at upper secondary school and university level, in the national language. The problems are serious, I admit that the transition may not be easy, but all countries have managed it, and I have no reason to doubt that Estonia can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U70	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U71	Mr. Minister! This report can be found or found by your advisor online at www.tai.ee, there he is. At the moment, you said that you would certainly ask to be informed in more detail about this study. The same sentence last time I told you right here that Ahtme upper secondary school students did not speak Estonian, and the same was true of Tapa upper secondary school. Now that it's been two or three months, have you gained more information on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U72	Now, the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U73	Yeah. I was told that young people at Ahtme High School were embarrassed about your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! At the beginning of this year, eleven applications were handed over to the governments of Tallinn and six Narva schools, which we are talking about. My question is based on the fact that, according to Estonian law, you should have responded to these requests within a month or, as the law allows, extend the period of reply by the same period. I have this simple question: why are you breaking Estonian law? Why, if there is a firm time to respond to requests, do you not stick to it? What are the interests behind this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U75	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U76	We focused on substantive issues and I am pleased that focusing on these issues provided practical solutions that have contributed to raising the quality of learning in all these schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U77	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Education! Only a few moments ago, a member of the Riigikogu, Erki Nool, expressed concern in this hall about what I said that, at least in the last group of kindergartens, the acquisition of early childhood education should be free of charge. And you said there's no such thing as free stuff. Someone else will have to pay for it. My question is: has the Fatherland and Res Publica Union given up its free slogan on higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U78	And now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U79	The Isamaa and Res Publica Association have not planned to offer free higher education in pre-school institutions. As far as universities are concerned, the relevant bill is in the Riigikogu proceedings and I hope that you will adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U80	Thank you. When I meet the school leaders of Tallinn, I have heard of their concern that the main focus of Tallinn City Government is on protecting the Russian language of instruction in schools, the organization of the school network is not much to do. What's your position? And can the Ministry come to the Tallinn City Government with good advice and force?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U81	Thank you for your question. It is true that if, in many cases, the school network is refocused on small magymnasiums, which have been established for various reasons and where there are few pupils due to the lack of birth of children, the situation of the school network in Tallinn is, in my opinion, much more serious. For many years, it has probably not been given the kind of attention it deserves. This concerns not only Russian-speaking schools, but also Estonian-speaking schools; it concerns not only upper secondary schools but also basic schools. And it most directly affects teachers' salaries in all these schools. With the state budget's money alone, which the state grants as a grant, it would be possible to significantly increase teachers' salaries in Tallinn if the school network were to be organised in a reasonable manner. This would be possible, as has already been said, within the limits of the available resources. I very much hope that the steps taken by the Tallinn City Government in planning the school network will be completed as soon as possible. A good example has been shown by the city of Tartu, which, as a result of the internal debate, has, in my opinion, reached very sensible proposals. So Tallinn has something to follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U82	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U83	Please ask the next question, Mr Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U84	Dear Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. Last week, the Riigikogu dealt with the price of electricity as a matter of national importance. In doing so, both experts, the head of the Competition Board and one of the representatives of the sellers, confirmed that since 2013, when we enter the open electricity market, the price of electricity production will increase by 45-50% if we look at today's prices in the open market. This means that if the cost of generating electricity is 30% of the consumer price of electricity, electricity is likely to increase by 16 to 20% in a year's time. If you are also in that position and confirm it, I ask: what measures is the government or the Ministry of Economic Affairs planning to take to help people and mitigate future price increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U85	Firstly, I want to acknowledge this debate. I looked at the minutes of this debate and there were unexpectedly few populist ideas and statements for me. So a very constructive debate. Thank you to the Social Democrats for organising this. Now for your question. First of all, your claim that opening up the market will lead to an increase in production costs and an increase in electricity prices. Explain to me that if a market is opened in Estonia, how will the hydropower produced by Latvenergo increase or, for example, how will Finland's nuclear energy become more expensive? The opening-up of the market does not increase production costs! The truth is, however, that on 1 January 2013 we will enter a new climate policy framework, which will make all companies more relevant not only to those who use fossil fuels to produce electricity but also to buy CO2 quotas on the market. How much specifically does the price of electricity in Narva rise, in fact, depends primarily on the market price of CO2. The market price is different, we do not know it, the forecasts are very different, the characteristics are also very different, but the competitiveness of oil shale plants depends on it. For the consumer, the situation is actually more comfortable because he knows he will receive electricity at market price, and if this market works well, it will be the fairest price. Your second question: social problems. I also looked at the proposals made by you and the other parties. In my opinion, if this increase in prices affects social coping for certain groups of people, it is more serious, then these people we still need to help with social support. If necessary, we will increase income support, if necessary, let us say, we will aim at some further steps. I'm sure the government will. We are currently monitoring the share of electricity costs in the consumption basket of different groups and companies. And if you give me the opportunity to ask the next question, I would like to introduce the results of the monitoring that have been carried out so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U86	I would like to ask you the first point to be more specific, Mr Urve Palo.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U87	Thank you. In a minute, it's really hard to put anything you want into question. I agree with you that one of the factors behind the price increase is that we are entering a new regime for trading CO2 quotas. As Märt Ots explained in his report, if we get them in full spanking, we need to start buying CO2 quotas under the new regime, then this means that the price of our oil shale electricity produced at the oil shale plant would be as high as today in Finland. It'll be about two cents for a kilovat-hour. This means that as both the opening of the market and the new regime for trading CO2 quotas fall into one year, the electricity production price will in any case increase. You don't have to hope that doesn't happen. It is therefore very important that the state plans concrete steps to mitigate the price increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U88	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U89	My question is that one way of mitigating the price increase is also human energy savings, but so far the Ministry of the Economy has not allowed energy-saving companies to enter the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U90	Dear colleague, a question in one minute, please, not a report.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U91	The question is this: do you intend to create a legal framework so that companies can enter the Estonian market to help people make houses and apartments energy-saving?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, Please, you have to fit 90% of the question in this one minute and 10% of the word!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U93	Make your proposals to the extent that this depends on the legal framework. We already, I don't mean to say we did, but we've been working on this on different levels for the fifth year, as far as I know. Have you noticed? We have implemented relevant programmes to improve apartment buildings in order not to waste heat. We have taken several steps through Eesti Energia. If you monitor the activities of Eesti Energia as an entrepreneur, you will see that people are helped to choose the right electricity consumption package and there are many other steps. If there is any legal mechanism available for a company that is going to make our apartment buildings more efficient, where the biggest waste is currently taking place in terms of the family's budget, I expect 24 hours a day and 7 days a week to see how we can make people invest in their apartment buildings as quickly and in a short time as possible using the legal framework. There will be the greatest savings in energy costs. I completely agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U94	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification. One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U95	I'm really going to clarify my question. I am thinking of creating a legal framework for the market of energy service-related companies that take on the financing of projects and the implementation of austerity measures, benefiting from energy savings. By the way, despite the fact that the Energy Services Directive requires the creation of the necessary environment for the operation of companies providing energy services, the Estonian state has not yet met this requirement. My question is: do you have a plan to establish a legislative framework or are you not familiar with this issue at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U96	We're in the loop. But make suggestions, then let us compare our views on this matter. If there is some sort of legal miracle that will make people save more energy, it is a great achievement. It could get a Nobel Prize. If we look at the problems that all European countries are facing in the chest, how they are trying to achieve a victory in energy efficiency, if there is one legal provision that should be transposed from some directive into the Estonian Code, then that would be great. Let's do this right now! Let's call an emergency session, and let's not go on Christmas break!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U97	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U98	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The question is two-part. First half: Where do you take the confidence that renovation will give citizens such savings? Houses will have so much credit burden that if people get rid of this loan in 20 years' time, you have raised the price of electricity to such an extent that there is no point in renovating anything. Point one. And the second part of this question: where do you take these income subsidies if, from the new year, even before the opening of the electricity market in small towns, the price of electricity rises by up to 40% or almost 45%, which the newspapers write about every day?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U99	In small towns, electricity prices rise by 40 to 45% 1. January?! Come on, Mr. Lenk, you've been a news reporter! What was the question? How do I know that renovating buildings will bring savings in heat costs? This is real practice. Currently, the average heat cost savings for projects supported by the State have been 37%. There are also better projects, there are also fewer good projects, just depending on what housing associations, owners of apartment buildings are planning. The State supports up to 35% of the cost of renovation. This is the most real savings that can be achieved. The second question was where do the income support come from? If this increase comes, the resources for income support are estimated in the budget. Electricity costs are also included in the cost of living when the income support is paid and when the minimum limit is taken into account. We certainly need to see how everything works, whether we have to take some sort of separate step here or look for extra money. The money for income support is calculated in the budget. Regrettably, I must assure you that, as far as we have analysed so far, the effect of rising electricity prices specifically on people's consumption basket does not seem as fatal as you are trying to describe. I repeat: for a family that does not use electricity for heating, the average electricity consumption is 2.8% of the total family bill. In households where electricity is also used for heating purposes, according to Statistics Estonia, they account for around 5.5% of all households, certainly if the price of electricity increases, the costs will increase more. Whether they grow as much as in gas-based heating is another issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U100	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You can actually rest, I have a procedural question, and I also signaled it with a raised hand. Having been in the Riigikogu for six months, I have long wondered why a member of the Board of the Riigikogu takes on the role of tutor. Why does Mrs. Randjärv often feel like a choir leader in front of the choir and make comments that are not regulated in any way by our working arrangements? And why doesn't he just stop the trial if he thinks it's necessary? Why are you telling me in advance what the question must be made up of? If anyone goes past the question time, turn off the mike! I don't understand why we grown-up people have to suffer to raise you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U102	I can say, why do I have to suffer you? If you've given me one minute, I'm asking you to stay in that one minute. It's time to ask a question. If you have any questions for Mrs. Randjärv, please ask her! I don't want people to turn off the microphone, but I'm asking everyone to stay within one minute! Please, Mr Peep Aru, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. The question is for the minister, it is not procedural. Minister, can you tell us how far it is to be able to grant renovation grants to private houses through KredEx?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U104	Not too far, I hope. In the temporal definition, it depends on the final agreement with the financiers, i.e. the Luxembourg Government. Basic agreements have been reached. If we can make all the arrangements and agree on all the border details, we'll make it public in the near future. I hope we're not talking about the year here, we're talking about maybe a month, not a longer time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U105	And another very short question. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U106	Thank you. A short question. We are talking about homes and families' electricity consumption, but some very large electricity consumers are health care institutions, health care systems. Has anyone thought about the cost of health care when electricity increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U107	I'm sure it's meant for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U108	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this question, and since Question Time is over, I thank the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions and the members of the government for answering them. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U109	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 11th working week. First of all, it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U110	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First of all, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law amending the Law on alcohol, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft, Jürgen Ligi; secondly, the draft law amending the Law on the Law of the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft, Hanno Pevkur; thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on investment funds and related amendments to other laws, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U111	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted three draft laws and if they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated on 12 December, Leading Commission, Committee on Finance; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Accounting Act and the Commercial Code, initiated on 12 December, the Committee on Economic Affairs; thirdly, the National Defence Committee. a Act amending § 76 of the Strategic Goods Act and § 9 of the Surveillance Act initiated on 12 December, the Steering Committee of the National Defence Committee; fourthly, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu's decision to establish the Riigikogu Research Committee to determine the facts relating to the granting of residence permits. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There were 80 comms registered, no 21. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U112	The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Commercial Shipping and the Law on Maritime Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Law on Commercial Seafaring and the Law on Maritime Safety, as initiated by the Government of the Republic 82. Please vote! 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U113	We begin the third reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Development Fund Act initiated by the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Estonian Development Fund Act, which was initiated by the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu, 102. Please vote! 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U114	Our third item is the second reading of draft 118 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo' submitted by the Government of the Republic. Mr Tõnu July, Member of the National Defence Committee of the Speaker's Board, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to this draft Decision, Estonia will continue to contribute to the NATO-led international mission in Kosovo in the composition of KFOR, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of June 1999. According to the draft, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from its NATO membership. Currently, one of the senior officers of the Estonian Defence Forces is serving at KFOR headquarters in Priština. In addition to the Defence Forces, Estonia contributes to the civilian mission of Kosovo EULEX. On 6 December the National Defence Commission met with representatives of the Defence Forces and received a comprehensive overview of the participation of the Estonian Defence Forces in international mission areas, including Kosovo. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading at its meeting on 12 December and decided unanimously to approve the explanatory memorandum to the second reading. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U116	Thank you very much, Mr Juul. There's a question for you too. Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Was your committee also discussing how many times or how many more Riigikogu members would have to deal with this issue in order to extend the deadline for this mission in Kosovo?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U118	Thank you for your question. In view of the current situation in Kosovo, there is, in fact, a certain tension in the region, we will probably have to discuss this again and again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U119	No further questions. Thank you once again, Mr Juul! Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. There are no amendments either. So we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo', draft 118. Please vote! 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U120	We will begin the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state on a post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' presented by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Ülo Tulik, Member of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft decision was completed on 23 November. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 7 December at 6 p.m. and therefore the text of the draft decision at first reading should be used as the basis for the second reading. The National Defence Committee met with representatives of the Defence Forces at its meeting on 6 December and also received an overview of what was happening in this mission area. The UN-led peacekeeping mission is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948. In addition to the explanatory memorandum to the draft at first reading, the Committee on National Defence notes that the issue of the aforementioned mission is also specified in UN Security Council Resolution 72 of August 1949. The Commission further states that since 1997 the military observers seconded by Estonia to UNTSO have served mainly on the territory of Israel and Syria. According to the draft, UN observers could also be located on Lebanon and Egypt's territory if necessary. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. This is a purely UN so-called 'blue helmet observation mission'. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft decision before the second reading at its meeting on 12 December and decided by consensus to approve the draft explanatory memorandum to the second reading. Based on § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the second reading of the draft be terminated, that the draft be put to the final vote and that the Riigikogu adopt it as a decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U122	Thank you very much, Mr Tulik. There's a question for you too. Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U123	Good manager! Good Ülo! Can you tell me how many people are meant to be sent on this mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U124	We're talking about three people, but there's actually two of them right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U125	No further questions. Once again, thank you, Mr Tulik. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. There were no amendments either, so we can go to the final vote. Good Riigikogu, I will final vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' submitted by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U126	We will begin the second reading of the draft 125 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development' submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech by Mr Andrus Saare, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft decision is to give consent to the increase of the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the share capital of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the power to carry out the activities necessary to increase the participation. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 5 December. The deadline for submitting amendments was reached on 1 December at 6 p.m. No amendments were received and the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not consider it necessary to submit its own proposals. The committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session for the second reading. 14 December 2005 and put the draft to a final vote at second reading. This decision was made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U128	Thank you very much, Mr Andrus Saare. No questions for the waitress. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There's no call. There are no amendments either, so we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Improving the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development'. Please vote! 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and no one was against or impartial. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U129	We will begin the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing a Member of the Council of the National Library of Estonia" submitted by the Committee on Culture. For a presentation, I would like to ask my colleague, Urmas Klaas, Chair of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U130	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision of the Riigikogu has been submitted before you by the Committee on Culture, according to which we propose the appointment of a colleague of a member of the Riigikogu Mart Meri as a member of the Board of the National Library of Estonia, based on Article 8 (7) of the Estonian National Library Act. This draft decision was initiated by the Committee on Culture at its meeting on 5 December and proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 13 December, that it be put to the final vote and adopted immediately. All these decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission. The Bureau put the draft on the agenda for the week to this day; we do not object to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U131	Thank you. There are no questions for my colleague, Urmas Klaas. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The negotiations will not be opened, and we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Council of the National Library of Estonia 142. Please vote! 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U132	The next item is also the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Appointing a Member of the National Broadcasting Council of Estonia" submitted by the Committee on Culture. Once again, I would like to ask my colleague Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U133	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The appointment of a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council takes place on the basis of § 15 (4) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. The draft decision was submitted by the Committee on Culture at its meeting on 5 December. The content of the draft is to appoint Jaak Allik, member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. The Commission presented this draft decision by consensus, and we also proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session in Scop 13, that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a broad consensus, i.e. by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U134	Thank you, my colleague Urmas Klaas! But there's a question for you. Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Did the Committee on Culture, before making this very nice decision and bringing it into this Chamber, also get to know the views of the honourable candidate that he will be doing there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U136	Thank you very much. We have the written consent of my colleague Jaak Allik to be a member of the National Broadcasting Council. We are of the opinion that we can make this proposal to the House because there is no conflict of interest in Allik's case, why it cannot fill this place. And, of course, working in this council as a representative of the Riigikogu and also of its political group, he must follow the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. There, all the duties of the board member and the nature of the work are well written.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U137	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U138	Thank you. Does this candidate have the advantage of finally achieving party independence after being in almost all Estonian political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U139	Thank you very much. The Committee on Culture did not resolve this issue from this angle. Due to the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, the Riigikogu has precisely the power to appoint representatives of political groups, and since the Social Democratic Party Group has found that Mr Allik is fit to perform this task as a member of their political group, this will also be the case if this draft decision is supported by the plenary assembly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U140	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U141	Thank you. I don't see Jaak Allik among us right now. As chairman of the committee, is it absolutely clear to you that he really wants to accept this place? Maybe his absence today has something to do with it, that he's not really sure about himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U142	He gave the Commission a very firm agreement to apply and later confirmed it orally. Maybe he's such a modest person that he doesn't want to be on his own. I'm afraid I can't tell you why he's not here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U143	No further questions. Thank you very much, my colleague Urmas Klaas! Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. We can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, to the final vote, I will put draft 143 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Riigikogu Estonian National Broadcasting Council. Please vote! 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one person against and one abstention also. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U144	Our last item is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on membership of the International Monetary Fund initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to present his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U145	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft is to transfer the assets liabilities of the Republic of Estonia, which is a member of the IMF, to Eesti Pank and to clarify the rights and obligations of Eesti Pank when representing the Republic of Estonia in the IMF. To this end, the initiator of the draft decree provided for the amendment of two legal acts: the Act on the Taking and Enforcement of Property Obligations Related to the Membership of International Organisations by the Republic of Estonia and the Decision of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia of 22 April 1992 on the Granting of Consent to the Accession of the Republic of Estonia to the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the associated organisations. With the agreement of the originator's representative and after hearing the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank, the Committee on Monetary Affairs submitted the draft to the first reading of 132 as amended. The amendment introduced part of the above-mentioned amendments to the above-mentioned decision of the Supreme Council concerning the representation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund into the Eesti Pank Act. As the national authorities of the European Union are obliged to consult the European Central Bank on any draft legislative act falling within the area of competence of the European Central Bank and this draft concerns the competences and responsibilities of Eesti Pank within the European System of Central Banks, the Monetary Commission addressed the European Central Bank for an opinion. In its reply, the European Central Bank confirmed that the transfer of assets liabilities related to the membership of the IMF of the Republic of Estonia to Eesti Pank is acceptable. The substantive discussion of the Commission's meeting was limited to the fact that a representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that in all euro area countries other than Belgium and Greece, the contributions from the IMF are paid by the national central banks, as well as by the Belgian and Greek governments to lend money to the IMF's contributions from their central bank. It is recalled that a question was raised in this Chamber at first reading. The Commission dealt with the draft on 6 December and proposed by consensus that the second reading be closed and the third reading be carried out. a on 15 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-14_U146	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. There are no amendments either. The second reading of Bill 132 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the agenda. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 2.29 p.m.
