ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the ninth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues want to hand over drafts or enquiries? First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching a draft law amending the law implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy and the law on administrative cooperation. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U3	Thank you. There's no more calls. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the board. The Bureau shall decide on this procedure in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Forward messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: Social Democratic Party Group. a Draft Act amending the Income Tax Act and § 3 of the Social Tax Act, initiated on 8 June, of which the commission is the Committee on Finance; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Citizenship Act, initiated on 9 June, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; in the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. a Draft Act amending § 15 of the VAT Act, initiated on 9 June, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; in the Group of the Estonian Central Party. a Draft Act amending the Social Tax Act, initiated on 9 June, of which the commission is the Finance Committee; members of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestor and Kalev Kotkas's. a Draft Act amending § 108 of the Public Service Act, initiated on 9 June, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher, the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Please, let's do the presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. You have the agenda on your desks, but I'd like your attention first! Firstly, the Group of the Social Democratic Party has proposed to exclude item No 15 from the agenda of the current Wednesday session of the ninth working week, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Secondly, the Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed that agenda item 16, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on utility model, patent law, the Industrial Property Law and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, be excluded from the agenda of this working week's Thursday session. Thirdly, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed to raise agenda items No 13 for the current Thursday session of the ninth working week, Eesti Pank's annual report for 2010, and No 14 for the Annual Report of the Financial Supervision Authority for 2010, items 1 and 2 for the agenda of 16 June. Just now, a request was made to the Bureau, which is somewhat in contradiction with the proposal of the Centre Party Group: the Social Democratic Party Group proposes that item 12 on the Thursday agenda be raised to the first item. Please, Mr Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U4	Thank you. On behalf of the IRL Group, I am pleased to say that we support two proposals for amending the agenda, proposals 1 and 2, but we do not support the partly overlapping proposals 3 and 4, tabled by the Central Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put the agenda to the vote, together with the first two amendments. Please vote! 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 37, no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U6	Let's start work on questions. The first question to be heard is the members of the Riigikogu Andres Anvelt, Heljo Pikhofi, Neeme Suur, Rein Randveri, Kajar Lemberi, Kalvi Tõvi, Sven Mikeri, Eiki Nestor, Jaak Allik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jaan Õunapuu, Rannar Vasiliyev, Karel Rüütel, Marianne Mikko, Kalev Kotkas and Peeter Kreitzberg on 9 May s. a request for information on the state of internal security. I would like a colleague from the speaker, Andres Anvelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U7	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, 16 A member of the Social Democratic Party Group has submitted an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, regarding the deep concern we have, let us say, about the deterioration of the internal security situation that has arisen in the last half of the year. In previous years, when we could say that the number of road deaths fell to the level of 1945 and that the overall situation in the fight against crime continued to improve, the trend has been different in recent months. It is a concern, for example, that the number of road deaths is constantly increasing (we can only remember the sad figures of the weekend when we had to read about the dead cyclists). It may be the cause of bad weather and very volatile winters, but let us face it: much of this worrying tendency is still caused by fewer police officers on the streets. Fewer people are about to put out fires. As we know, 30 rescue commanders have temporarily reduced their life-saving capabilities this year. That is why we have five questions. We want to know from the Minister of the Interior what the alternatives are. We know that there is no money, that is what the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have said from this very remote area. How do we plan to restructure internal security work so that people's lives are protected and we can all feel safer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U8	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U9	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioners! Thank you very much for asking me this question. Now that you've been on the job for more than two months, I'll try to answer you at my best. I answer by question. The first question: 'What is your vision of today's internal security situation? Do recent events point to changes in the security situation? ' I dare, honourable questioners, to make such an assessment that the current internal security situation is relatively stable. I would, of course, like to say more here and stress that all internal security institutions give their maximum every day so that we can all be safe to live in Estonia. In the last ten years, the security of society has increased considerably and, based on statistics, our situation is far from bad. The Ministry of Justice is an institution that collects and publishes national criminal statistics. These data show that the number of crimes in Estonia is decreasing. If we look at the number of fatalities in road accidents, we will see that we have taken a long step down here too in recent years. For the first time, Estonia is below the European average. Also, in three years, we have lost the largest number of people killed in fire from the countries of the European Union. The number of fire deaths was projected to decrease by one fifth between 2006 and 2009 and in fact by 37%. In five months this year, three fewer people died in the fire than last year. This, of course, very sad statistics have already taken into account the tragic case in Haapsalu, which, as we know, claimed the lives of ten people. But it is quite clear, honourable questioners, good members of the Riigikogu, that we have room for improvement. Of course, as Minister of the Interior, I too would be pleased if the expected economic growth would allow us to open purse irons a little more kindly. However, I think it is important that we do everything to ensure that, in these conditions and within the limits of their financial means, we give the maximum for our part, so that the people of Estonia feel safe even in economically not at the best times. The second question: 'Is our internal security underfunded, so that in the near future our society may face a deterioration in the internal security situation? " It is quite clear, honourable questioners, that there is no safety at cheap prices. This is primarily due to the need for competence, capacity, or people, and technology and technology. On the one hand, technology is the fastest-growing area, which means that we need to invest in modern technology to succeed in fighting crime and protecting public order. On the other hand, it must be taken into account that the technology is constantly being amortised and must be updated. We live in a very unambiguous way in a technology age. If we do not invest in technology, we will not be able to keep up with the current levels in the future. I certainly intend to make sure that both the internal security situation and budgetary opportunities in this area improve. This is clearly about our economic capacity, or the revenue from the budget, but it is absolutely unambiguous and understandable that ensuring internal security is a common thing for all of us and, of course, one of the pillars of a broad 'defence strategy'. Question 3: 'If it is not possible to obtain additional money in the area of internal security from the state budget, what compensatory mechanisms are possible to alleviate the situation? ' Very good question. Good questioners, I will answer you this way: getting one-off extra money certainly cannot be a sustainable solution. In the process of drawing up the state budget, the Ministry of the Interior makes an additional request; we hope, on the basis of certain clear arguments, to get more budget resources. Today, the budget process is still under way and it is early to talk about this picture that is going to hatch. We are only at the beginning of the budgetary process. I definitely want to see opportunities for investment, with my good team at the Home Office, as well as ways to make the most of the money. In recent years, we have been very active in the Ministry of the Interior in the opportunities to mobilise foreign funds, which have created preconditions for dealing with the crisis years. Of course, the state's contribution to internal security has also followed. The most effective way to avoid a lack of money is, of course, to prevent the need for money in the bud. This means an extremely important contribution to prevention. I myself believe very strongly in prevention, which helps save human lives. There is an analysis by Tallinn University of Technology and the Road Administration, which has found that the loss of one person in traffic, for example, costs society a very large amount of money. It is questionable how much it can be valued in money at all, but we also need to be prepared for it. According to these calculations, this amount is nearly one million euros, or about 15 million Estonian kroons. I can name additional compensation mechanisms, for which the good questioners have asked. Firstly, implementation of community service from 1 January 2012. This is an important step to anticipate community service for misdemeanours. All preparations are underway. This means that, in the long run, we will once again save, I think, a considerable amount of taxpayers' money and we will direct those people who are significantly smaller offenders than those whose actions have been dealt with in criminal proceedings to do community service. Cooperation with local authorities and the private sector is important here. In any case, prevention, prevention and, once again, the involvement of the private sector in prevention are important, as it is very difficult to achieve results without it. I myself took a small initiative last week and I hope that it will become regular in the future. I invited all the retailers and producers of alcohol to a single table, who could help to reduce the number of drowning deaths this summer. This first round table was, in my opinion, very successful. We got almost all Estonian manufacturers and brokers at the table. These agreements, which we have already concluded during this hour and a half, I think, mean that private sector forces and energy will be involved in information campaigns funded by the state with taxpayers' money. Thirdly, confiscation of the proceeds of crime is also one of the priorities I have set out. This means that we should be able to confiscate the proceeds of crime even more widely than we are now. The weakest place in organized crime is the income they earn. Yes, there are types of organised crime, the causes of which are ideological, motivated by elements other than profit, but, to a very large extent, organised crime revolves around profits. If we are able to get behind our fingernails on the proceeds of crime in a good way, it will generate huge benefits for society and, as a whole, it will reduce the resources that we would otherwise have to channel to criminal authorities, or at least we can focus their resources on more important parts of the work. These are important measures that we will certainly use with limited resources. Fourthly, we have already talked a lot about one of our priorities for the coming years, which is that much more volunteers must be involved in ensuring internal security. Estonia is, as we know, a country as big as the Netherlands, but we have 13 times less people than the Netherlands, which means that we have many scattered areas. We need to involve communities, villages, local people as much as possible in order to ensure internal security on the ground in order to ensure a certain elementary ability to save, to help with compliance with public order, etc. This means an increase in the number of relief officers, i.e. an increase in the number of voluntary rescuers, etc. These were the compensatory mechanisms that I wanted to present to you today. We can talk about this for a long time, but I could at least cancel the main priorities. I will put together the fourth and fifth questions: 'What structural changes do you consider necessary in the area of internal security in order to mitigate the state budget under-funding? Will you confirm or deny the need to bring people together from both the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board? There are quite a number of structural changes in the area of internal security. Parliament discussed and debated at length some time ago and then approved the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Board. This is an extraordinary step. A very large authority was created, employing about 7,000 people. Of course, time is needed to hone this organisation so that the functions that have been put together in this office can function in an oiled way. The Ministry of the Interior has also set up an information technology and development centre of the so-called SMIT, the Ministry of the Interior, which brings together information technology competence and resources, so that our activities are more transparent and less costly for the taxpayer and that resources are used optimally. The powers of the Minister of the Interior shall not include the recruitment or lay-off of police and rescue officers. This is still dealt with by the management of the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as the management of the Rescue Board, which is their area of competence. I want to ensure that the Ministry of the Interior and our agencies have the highest possible responsibility for taxpayers' money, the funds that the taxpayer has given us. The Ministry of the Interior has a very large area of government. I think we're a long way from the moment we can say that now everything's ready, everything's optimised, every crown goes exactly where it's needed. There's still a lot of work to do. The condition for successful work is motivated by an employee. This requires a reasonable burden, reasonable and well - thought - out tasks and functions, decent tools, and, of course, adequate wages. Are these conditions guaranteed by our limited budget? That's what we're analyzing in our offices and in our ministry. As I said, the budgetary process is currently under way, it is actually in the early stages. I do not rule out some changes that will require painful farewells in some old custom or at the same time. That is what we are talking about when there are concrete proposals. I dare hope that we can do it nicely at the beginning of the autumn. If the budgetary opportunities and our tax revenues increase, then it is my wish that the area of internal security should be a part of all this. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U10	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U11	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your really good answers. But I'm asking you about the next worry child we didn't ask about in our inquiry, but what did the hot summer of this year bring back to our yard? The trouble child is drowning. The media have launched a campaign, but it has to be said that even the four drowning deaths of the last weekend occurred in quite large places, not somewhere in the forest lakes, but at least three of them took place in places where the policeman or rescue officer could have been temporarily present or transited or showed up for a moment to prevent this accident. In fact, it is the presence of the police that cools the bravest in traffic, too. Have any new measures been taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U12	Thank you, Andres, for the question. Yes, it is quite clear that hot summers are the most tragic of drowning deaths. We've taken out the statistics. The year 2002, when the summer was as hot as last year, was very tragic, in 1997, which was the hot summer before it, was exactly the same. This means that a large number of days in those summers were very hot and people went to cool themselves down. Unfortunately, as you have probably read in the press, alcohol has often been involved. An analysis of last year's statistics shows that 60% of drowning deaths were alcohol. You can calculate 60% of 97 human casualties, isn't that at the border of 60 people? These are unfortunate things. We have, I think, started a much more extensive communication than last year; it will actually last this whole summer. There was a round table last week that I told you about. The aim was to ask the private sector to come along with the information. It seems to me that this readiness exists, which means that we can delay this communication, which is financed by taxpayers' money and which we can guarantee ourselves, hopefully until the end of August. We don't know if it's gonna be hot in the hole or if it was the last hot period in June. Today's weather is much cooler, but we have to be prepared for the worst. I don't have the information you're referring to, exactly where and under what conditions the death of the weekend drowning occurred. These are very recent tragic cases. Last year began a very close cooperation with local authorities, who on several occasions are willing to contribute funds to include lifeguards, even temporarily. Last year's statistics say that more than a third of the drownings still occurred after going into the water in an unknown place. How many such bodies of water are there, that is a question of its own. I think there's a lot of water where you can't reach the lifeguards, the Rescue Department or the police. Another possibility here is for volunteers to come to the aid once we have made it clear (this has actually been done in the Rescue Board) those most critical places where people are going to spend a pleasant summer day. In view of all these analyses, this year's summer has come to pass. I took out the statistics an hour ago: there is now a difference between the number of human lives, i.e. when 27 people died last year until 13 June, it is now 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U13	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U14	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! You talk nicely about the importance of prevention, volunteers, etc. This is all very nice, but we still have a real problem with the responsiveness of internal security structures, especially in the country. There must be a lot of examples. I know one example: the police don't drive out to Aser unless there are human sufferers. Maybe when men go to the store and steal a box of beer, the salesman just keeps watching, he can't do anything because the police say they're not coming because there are no victims. I think this situation is completely abnormal. How, then, can we say that people's feelings of security have improved, that is very good and that we have no problems? What are your thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U15	Thank you for your question. Last year, we passed the law on an assistant police officer, which, in the police hierarchy, is very precisely intended to provide for a voluntary institution in the form of help police officers, which have been given additional powers. This additional competence is that they can walk independently to check and monitor compliance with public order, they do so under the direction of a police officer, not with a police officer. I think that this is a very important step forward, so that we can actually, I hope, in the near future, cover particularly those places of crisis where police hands are likely to be delayed longer than larger settlements, towns, so that law enforcement is visible there and people are aware that there is a police force. This certainly also concerns the East of Virumaa. As far as I know, the activity of already existing auxiliary police officers in Ida-Virumaa is quite commendable. But it is clear that these lines need to be completed. I think this is precisely the case of scattered areas. This law has only recently been applied. I consider this important and have discussed on several occasions with the administration of the police department how to channel additional resources in order to build this system so that it works across Estonia, and what are the prospects for the development of a system of police officers for the coming years. Why am I talking about this? Compared to other European countries, where there is much more money to carry out some other functions, but there are also many more volunteers involved in both rescue and police work than in Estonia, Estonia is actually in relation to the orphan child, which means that we have not made sufficient use of these opportunities so far. But we must do this because that is what our ladies and gentlemen and our role models in Europe are doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U16	Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U17	Thank you. Dear Minister, The bill doesn't have to be taken out so much because all these sad news has been through news portals and newspapers. Speaking of drowning deaths again, nine people drowned in June 11 days alone. Compared to last year's ten drowning deaths throughout June, it is still very sad statistics. But you brought out alcohol for one reason. At the same time, we know that we have a little less alcohol consumption. I am asking: what are the causes of drowning, but of course also road deaths, including what happens on weekends in the case of drunk drivers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U18	Thank you, Marika! Of course, you can take out statistics for June. According to my memory, last year was hot mostly in July and the heat reached August. This year's heat, however, arrived, as we know, in previous weeks, which was partly unexpected. This very high heat, when the temperature exceeds 30 degrees Fahrenheit [30 ° C], is very active in attracting people to enjoy a good time, company, or sunshine alone. In these groups, you will be happy to bring alcohol. What do we want to say with information campaigns this summer? Last year it was very simple to say, "If you take it dry! " This message was addressed to specific people who could be perceptive, mostly men aged 20 to 29. This year we have expanded the communication considerably and I think it is in a very important direction. This is the direction of family members, acquaintances, friendships. So, if you drink, don't swim, if you drink, don't get on the wheel and keep your neighbor from doing it. This creation of 'community control' or supervision is the main aim of this summer's communication. Of course, it is not all overnight, but it is taking its time, but now the statistics say that the number of drowning deaths is, to a certain extent, lower. I very much hope that this number will continue to decrease. This will certainly not decrease without information and prevention. If we are only monitoring and, for example, only erasing fires, it must be borne in mind that Nordic experience says that prevention is the most successful one. The connection with alcohol, I think, has not yet been recognised by society, and it has certainly been little known in those groups who enjoy the beautiful sunny weather. According to last year's statistics, if you go into the water in a too perky mood, there is a very high risk that if you overestimate your abilities, this could all end very tragically. That is the most negative role of alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U19	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The number of crimes against property has decreased, according to statistics, but it seems to me that all this is apparent. When speaking to people living in different parts of Estonia, they do not confirm it. Remember, only a few months ago, the Estonian press reported that people were losing their patience in the Peipsi region and were talking about a possible own court. Mr Minister, the question to you is: are you not afraid that, as we go on in this way, people will become more alienated from the country and, in the future, will no longer be expected to receive help from the lawkeepers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U21	Thank you, Jaan! I said it earlier, and I would like to emphasise it with great pleasure: our aim is not only to have the police visible and present (which is to work year after year all the time), but one of the important objectives is to increase the community's own involvement in security. This is how all developed European countries have behaved, and so is Estonia. We have a voluntary initiative on the ground. For example, in the field of rescue there is a free-willed rescue union formed at the beginning of last year, full of good and startling men from all areas and places of Estonia, who want to be those who reduce the alienation of the community from the country, come to the aid, are visible as rescuers, aid police officers, etc. I think this is very important, we must not underestimate it. It is clear that we must act within the resources we have, we must find all the means to be visible and effective in our actions. If it is possible that local relief officers will prevent alienation and a reduced sense of security, then we must take this opportunity. After all, the solution is not that we send out an on-site collection from somewhere in the centre or that we do some kind of work with more resource-intensive competence that can be done with less resources. We need to be optimal, that is what the taxpayer requires of us. It is the duty of the police, it is the duty of the ministry, it is the great expectation of Parliament, and it is the expectation of all of us that we can best allocate the resources we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U22	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I agree with you on a lot of things, especially that it is a good thing that a legal basis has been created for volunteering and that more people should definitely be involved in volunteering in the field of internal security. But unfortunately, the harsh reality is that in many rural areas you can't find a reliable person who should mow the lawn for a modest fee or help break down trees. So, what are we talking about, creating a sense of security? In fact, the problem is that we simply lack people. My question, however, is: how do you feel about violence in Estonian society, family violence? Should this be dealt with as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U24	Thank you, Kalle! My understanding is that domestic violence has a very clear impact on minors. After all, it is not just that marriage parties or partners are arguing with each other, or it is getting much more faceless and worse, we have read about many of these cases in the media. But a very large victim is a minor. The state took crimes against minors as one of its priorities years ago. It happened when you were a minister, and it's been transferred to this day. As I remember, in 2004 it was one of the priorities set by this government, where I was a part of it. I think we have made progress in dealing with crimes related to domestic violence in recent years. What do these advances mean? It is extremely important that, for example, the prosecutor's office, but in particular the police, there are qualified and qualified investigators who can perceive the nature of domestic violence, who do not view it as a normal offence, but also understand psychological aspects, those difficulties relating to proof, etc. I think that some progress has been made in recent years. We are definitely behind several European countries, but it is not easy in any society. It is not easy to define domestic violence in any country. I remember that, for example, in New York in the early 1990s (Mayor Giulian has been told as a miracle story) domestic violence was one of the types of crime that did not know what to do. One, two and three approaches were tried. The victory was precisely a community-centred approach, which naturally requires a great deal of resources. This means that constant attention will be paid to those risk families, from which there will not be one challenge or two challenges, but several and several challenges, which the police will perhaps look at in the beginning for a bit of a turnaround, but within a certain time it will be seen that there is a clear pattern that this is not just a complaint, but a crime that is being committed, it is violence. Then the party who is the victim can be taken to the point where he cooperates, he comes and says that it is violence and it must stop. As you well know, many cases of domestic violence end up being that the "submissive side" is submissive and giving up the statements he has given. It's a very big problem. It needs special mechanical expertise at the police and the prosecutor's office. Its development and introduction requires a great deal of time and resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U25	Please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U26	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about one area that has not been mentioned so far: the reception of emergency calls and the Alert Centre. In the longer term, the establishment of a common police and Rescue Authority alert centre has been discussed. I think we've already planned a joint alert center in the building in Jõhvi. What happens if the Alert Center gets taken away from the Rescue Board, if the police are sent to the Rescue Board to work? Don't you have the temptation to include this in some sort of cutback format next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U27	Thank you very much for the question, Mati. The current situation is that we are moving in that direction so that there will still be one alarm centre in Estonia. That was the right question. This is one of the'structural reforms' that we have agreed for the next four years. We hope to stay on schedule. The service will become much more accessible to people, which means that Estonia will retain one of the phone numbers that we will use in the future, and even in European terms will operate a rather modern system, which means that the overload will be ruled out. As you know, there is currently a kind of unique "excessive" system in Estonia, i.e. there are internal compensatory mechanisms that ensure that the person using the emergency number never has a long waiting period. On the contrary, he will be offered a service immediately. The current timetable has been made to ensure that we remain on the schedule that was discussed last year. I will certainly raise the issue of whether we can launch the flagship project, as we have planned, in 2012. Yes, Jõhvi has been mentioned, there are certain questions concerning this construction as a whole. There are certain technical and structural nuances. Whether or not something stays lingering depends on our good partner, Riigi Kinnisvara AS, and in turn on its partner, or builder. But the current plan is, yes, to start the flagship project in 2012 and, in a few years' time, to start this system all over Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U28	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! All internal security problems are mainly funded. The Rescue Board is forced to temporarily reduce the rescue capabilities of nearly 30 commandos due to this year's budget. At the same time, you have stressed that as one of the possible compensatory mechanisms, you are contributing to volunteers, both squirts and auxiliary police, in order to increase the ability to save. In my opinion, the very foundation is still motivated people who get paid for this job. They can do the job well. The problem with volunteers is that they are today, they may not be here tomorrow because who goes on the hay and goes for the potato. Do you really believe that volunteers can replace real police, professional squires, and do you think that without providing more resources in these structures, we can improve our ability to save?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U30	Thank you for a good question. No, volunteers don't replace professionals. These are systems that work hand in hand. This is not possible in any other way. These are actually two complementary systems. We cannot call both professionals, one of them is a profession, the other is a contribution to the security of the community. I have also said that yes, it is a problem that life-saving capacity has decreased in Estonia. It is bigger than in 2006, but less than it was in previous years. This is, of course, the point of negotiation when the 2012 budget is made. We intend to raise this issue. This, of course, has to do with what will be the so-called specific motivation of the rescuers. If you remember, a few years ago, the wages of the rescuers were very low. Now we can say that the wages of the rescuers are no longer as bad as maybe four or five years ago, it's improved. But it is clear that the cost of living moves away and we must therefore look at the entire structure and organisation of the Rescue Board as a whole. It is unambiguously resource-related, I fully agree with you. Once again, why am I emphasising volunteers? Because there are places in Estonia, there are areas where volunteers can prevent and respond to many problems. I think this is a very important addition for professionals. I certainly don't contrast these two. I have stressed everywhere, both in meetings with the rescuers and in contacts with the public, that they are complementary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U31	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U32	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm also asking in the context of the rescue squads. In Estonia, after one of the previous rescue units closed, there has been a situation in at least a few municipalities where the municipality has taken charge of all the costs of the command building in order to ensure that the commando is not shut down. On the one hand, it is the task of the state according to the law, but on the other hand it is the responsibility of the municipalities. What is your assessment of whether there is a solution to this? The solution is not that the command will be closed, but that the solution would be if the state came back to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U33	Thank you for your question. Some of these cases I've encountered. I have asked for an analysis of these cases and also for the possibility of putting the country on its shoulders. So I'm aware of this problem, and we're trying to do what we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U34	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, We have professionals in the security field who guarantee security. What matters is their motivation. There is a conflict because wages have been preserved for several years and I think they will be. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, it can also be estimated that there is a hidden lack of full work time, even for weeks or months. We know that too. Hence my question: how do you assess whether the current motivation is satisfactory in order to maximise security, or whether there is a conflict here and there is a need to reconsider something?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U36	Thank you for your question. I think that both internal security and very many other areas of state life are far from ready. We must make quite an effort to make sure that we really use each crown transparently and effectively. There are 10,500 people in my jurisdiction who perform very different functions. In 2010, the police, border guards, citizenship and migration areas were put together, as you know. I think it was the right decision, but there is no way we can say that this office is complete. The Head of the Police and Border Guard Board himself said last week that he saw the need to make significant changes to management systems, savings, redeployment of certain resources, etc. All of this actually relates to your question, to the fact that we still have as competent as possible people who are doing a sufficient and reasonable amount of work. Not in the way you indicated that there is underactivity of functions somewhere, people are overloaded, and somewhere is vice versa, some positions are hanging, just not filled in for a long time. That's the general approach. That is the difference between the private sector, where there is always a risk of bankruptcy, we can say so. Very materially, the private sector operates in many ways on a profit basis, i.e. the risk of bankruptcy forces the private sector to constantly review its resources, functions and how much is spent on one function or another and whether it is necessary at all. The public sector does not have such direct pressure. The only pressure that comes from this hall by the legislator, the Government of the Republic, etc. Public sector leaders must be the ones who constantly force the public sector to be as effective and efficient as possible and, if necessary, also to review the functions that we have a responsibility to perform and in which we can involve other sectors where we can work together, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U37	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We've been talking a lot here about supporting volunteer commandos. I will ask you, in an example, whether this will really be realised. A concrete example is the Prince's commando in Noarootsi rural municipality in Läänemaa. At the beginning of the year, the professional commando was shut down. The activities of the local rescue team were activated and negotiations were opened with the Rescue Board. Now it's been six months, but the contract with the NPO hasn't been signed yet. Is support for voluntary words not, or is there real resources here? Or does the Rescue Board just lack resources? Why hasn't there been a deal with the Noaroots Fire Company so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U39	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, the Rescue Board's been working on this. It's not the first time I've heard the name "Purces" today, I've heard it before. The head of the Rescue Department has been there. That's my information. Every effort has been made to make a voluntary commando there. I will also ask today, when I see the Head of the Rescue Board, what is the state of the Puke, whether this has been resolved and what the latest developments have been. I'm sure I will.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U40	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Already in ancient Rome, it was found that a professional is worth a great deal more than an untrained person, even if it has good will. Even gladiators were not wasted to kill, but untrained slaves were taken. I really liked it when you answered the questions of Karel Rüütel and Neeme the Great that volunteering is a method of efficiency rather than substitution. However, when I spoke to the rescuers there in Tartu, I was told that in several regions, which are mainly covered by voluntary rescuers, the risk of accidents and the ability to save has been reduced, as volunteers are not allowed to enter certain fires according to the rules, etc. Was it overcrowded fear, or is it a real danger that some areas will be left without high-quality rescuers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U42	Thank you for your question. Volunteer rescuers gained more competence by the rescue law passed last year. An independent savior institution has been created, which means that if so far a volunteer savior had the opportunity to participate in rescue work in the presence of a rescue officer or with a rescue officer, then now he can do it independently. These people are not untrained, they receive 16+32 hours of training. 16 hours is first-level training and 32 hours is second-level training, which was added by the adoption of the new rescue law. When I led the Committee on Legal Affairs and considered this matter to be very important to me, we discussed several times with the Rescue Board's management, which claimed that 16+32 hours was enough to perform the functions prescribed by law. Yes, lifesaving capacity, or smoke diving, is not acquired with this amount of training, that is clear. In order to acquire smoking, 180-200 hours of training are needed. At their last meeting with the freely-willed rescuers, their clear message was that at one point they would like to reach out to the first volunteer rescuers with smoke diving capabilities. This would be a completely new quality in Estonia, never before. I was surprised, in a good way, that they were ready for this. We need to analyse the capacity, how we can organise such training and what are the volunteers who, of course, have to meet certain requirements, etc. 200 hours is a very large amount of training. It is in this sense turning a completely new page in voluntary activities in the rescue area in Estonia, but I think this direction could be the right one. In this regard, yes, there is a great deal to be done. As I said, at an organised level, free-willed rescuers themselves began to stand up for their interests at the beginning of 2010 and formed the first organisation. Now more than 500 rescuers have completed second degree training in Estonia. I really hope there'll be more.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U43	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your positive messages. But, as we know, internal security is also very important in the border regions. How do you currently assess the close cooperation with neighbours, Russian law enforcement agencies, as well as Latvia and Finland? Is it enough to resolve the internal security problems along the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U45	Thank you very much. We have been working very well with our Finnish colleagues and this has been going on for years. I went to Finland myself, met with the police chief, and I have spoken to the Minister of the Interior several times in a short time. This is not even so much about perhaps this close to the border, but rather about cooperation in the fight against increasingly international crime. For example, last year there was a lot of talk about the so-called organised crime groups in Lithuania, who committed acts not only on Estonia's territory but also in Scandinavia. Estonian and Finnish police have exchanged a lot of information about drug crime, trafficking and everything else. This cooperation is very good. The Latvian police, I say this, do not, according to current information, stand perhaps on the strongest legs. Understandably, many countries have been affected by the economic crisis and Latvia is far from being affected either, on the contrary. However, cooperation with colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania is, according to the police themselves, a constant one, and it must be. Because when it comes to the fact that Lithuanian organized gangs are not relatively active, I am talking now, based on Europol sources, not in Lithuania, but precisely outside Lithuania, in many parts of Europe, including Latvia and Estonia, there is no other way. Trouble with the Eastern Neighbor may be known to everyone. This cooperation can always be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U46	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U47	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, as many of us as we are here! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior on his own behalf for the detailed answers. I know that this area, directly the Ministry of the Interior, is relatively new to him and there has been little time. You couldn't expect any quick results here. Although I dare deny some thoughts from this remote control. Firstly, I do not think that the situation in internal security and especially in the area of accident deaths is stable. It would be stable if the volatility remained at a few percent. If we are still talking about large growth, especially in the case of road accidents this spring, then we cannot blame everything on the weather. The word'stable' is perhaps even slightly politically incorrect. At the same time, the Minister of the Interior pointed out a very important number. I don't know how it's calculated, that's one million euros. In any case, the calculation is irrelevant. There are human lives back here. If we can find monetary value here, we will see that the amount that our country will bear, not just because of the loss of human lives, but because of all the losses, is actually significantly greater than the need for money to cover the return to internal security. I stress: going back. That's what we don't want to see in the near future, I guess. One of the things that the Minister of the Interior and the questioners did not touch today is that the police's internal investigation shows that the police's internal motivation and confidence in their organisation is very low. Yes, in the same way we are talking about the reform of the merger of police and border guards, which has only recently ended or, let us say, only recently begun, but it can still be said that for a year and a half, water has already flowed into the sea, which should have led to a certain stabilisation. It's not there. It will certainly affect the outside, it will affect people's sense of security. What matters is how often a person sees a police patrol, how sympathetic a police officer is. Or another thing: how criminal investigators behave, how motivated they are to deal with minor matters. Because, in the same way, we are saying that statistics show that the number of crimes against property is decreasing, but there are also fewer types of crimes such as drug crimes. Detecting drug crime actually shows the police's work. These are not the type of crime where the victim comes and talks about his or her concerns; they must be reached by the police themselves. Even keeping the detection of this type of crime the same shows that not everything is as good as it should be in the area of internal security. I think there has to be an optimist, but we have a lot of pessimism right now, especially about people's motivation. There's a lot to be done. I'm gonna take this opportunity to give the Minister of the Interior an idea. In the case of police, it is worth following the example of rescue officers. For example, such a small thing: rescuers, whether voluntary or professional, react to what is happening in another region when the rescuers in this other region do not have cars nearby. Regions are quite large, often coming from another region. The police have not done so, every precinct lives like a small princely state, but this is something that depends on the management of the organization, and I think there is a great deal to be done in this area. I want to hope that we will value the people who work, we will value the lives that these people protect, and we will move towards a reduction in accidents, because we are at the forefront of this number in Europe, here in Northern Europe or Eastern Europe, as you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U48	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. Please, Mr. Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U49	Thank you very much, Andres, for your attention. I fully agree with you: statistics on organised crime are a very open point for interpretation. I would rather say that if we generally perceive, through a number of elements, that, for example, drug crime or corruption is a problem, then it is clear that we cannot judge this crime by a number, or statistical number, by far, because one massive drug incident is only one statistical element, or one criminal case. Similarly, one very serious case of corruption is one statistical indicator. God's right, always be careful when interpreting statistics and deciding whether glass is half empty or half full. I think that there are very few places in the area of internal security where we cannot be cross-political, i.e. between different political groups, different political parties. We have a lot of common understanding and, of course, a common goal to increase overall security. But I still want to mark your reference to road deaths. I want to correct it. I said in my initial assessment that the situation is stable, of course with caution, based on general statistics and trying to objectively look at the situation with regard to road deaths. The previous year, 2010, when 78 people were killed in traffic, had been released in Estonia's history, but also as we went further back in time, phenomenal. It was claimed that the last year, when this figure was so small, was 1940. The fall in recent years has been very high in statistics. We were at 140-150 deaths three or four years ago, and we have reached 78 deaths very quickly. It is common European practice that for all accidents, the average for the last three years is mostly looked at, i.e. the trend is best reflected in the average for the last three years. When we compare two very short and somewhat arbitrary periods with each other, Marika, for example, pointed out in her question that there were ten drownings last June, but there have been more of them in June of this year, then, forgive me, it has its own arbitraryness. Of course, it can be shown that way. That is why all experts recommend looking at the three-year average. We're comparing the trend. The trend is nicely downward. The average of the last three years is a hundred deaths. I am very pleased with you, with less than 100 this year, because it is difficult to foresee a phenomenal year such as 2010 given the current financial resources. There were probably a number of factors that ran into each other last year. Here, monitoring, communication, more active activation of speed cameras, weather, economic recession played a role, which meant that people were less often seated on the driving wheel, etc. The interaction of all these components was important. The conclusion that I want to emphasise is that we should monitor this trend in general and draw conclusions. Looking at the sinking death, looking at the fires, we can see that the overall trend is also downward. Even the comparison with last year, which I pointed out, is in favour of this year. I think, in general, we can assess the status quo to be stable, but there is still a great deal to be done. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U50	Thank you, Mr. Minister of the Interior. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U51	The following question is made: Members of the Riigikogu Priit Toobali, Vladimir Velmani, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Mailis Repsi, Aadu Musta, Lauri Laasi, Marika Tuusi, Valeri Korbi, Enn Eesmaa and Tarmo Tamme submitted on 19 May an inquiry into the constitutionality of electronic voting. I would now like to ask my colleague, Priit Toobali, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U52	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Your Honor, Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, The March Riigikogu elections were preceded and followed by a very lively public debate on e-elections. Various opinions were expressed in the debate and there were people who dared to publicly warn of the potential dangers of e-elections. Paavo Pihelgas, a student at the University of Tartu and a hobby programmer, proved in the "Spectator" TV show that the e-vote system is relatively easy to cheat thanks to the security hole there. Barbra Symonds, a former IBM security expert, has stressed that he believes that security in the IT field is not yet high enough to use the Internet vote and thus allow the people to lead the countries. The internationally recognised organisation OSCE followed the March Riigikogu elections in Estonia during its mission. Particular attention was paid to the organisation of e-elections. The observers identified a number of shortcomings. More importantly, Estonia's incomplete code that does not allow the e-election results to be cancelled should the need arise; the voter does not have the opportunity to find out whether his vote reached the electoral commission; the electoral commission does not have an IT expert following the voting procedure and a back-up plan in case the voting system should stop. The whole observation is summed up by the fact that the e-vote system needs to become more transparent, the code needs to be improved and much more work has to be done to ensure that the voter without IT knowledge fully understands the system. For these reasons, the Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, asked 11 members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu to analyse the conformity of e-elections with § 60 of the Constitution. In particular, the six issues of our inquiry concern the fundamental differences between e-elections and voting ballots. We ask the Chancellor of Justice to answer our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U53	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Now, please, Chancellor of Justice of the Speaker's Office, Indrek Tederi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The answers are as follows: At least in my initial opinion, all the issues raised are constitutionally resolvable and the Riigikogu has already started looking for solutions under the leadership of the Constitutional Committee. I believe that a better solution will be found to many of the problems that led to the debate in the Riigikogu. Since the answers to the questions asked can be found on the basis of the existing practice of the Supreme Court, I also refer to the relevant positions of the Supreme Court, which constitute a fundamental framework for shaping electoral regulation. As a result of the constitutional review procedure initiated at the request of the President of the Republic of Estonia, the Supreme Court took the following position in 2005. In particular, the principle of the uniformity of elections constitutes a specific case of the general fundamental right of equality contained in § 12 of the Constitution and, in the context of an active right to vote, it means that all persons entitled to vote must have an equal number of votes and that all votes must have an equal weight in deciding on the allocation of seats in a representative body. However, in the context of the selection of representative bodies, the principle of equal treatment does not mean that all persons entitled to vote must be guaranteed an absolute level playing field for the single conduct of the electoral procedure. The various voting methods provided for by law are pre-voting, voting outside the polling district of residence, voting at the detention place, voting at home, voting abroad, voting at a different situation. It is not, in principle, possible or constitutionally necessary to ensure full equality in the exercise of the right to vote. The introduction of the e-vote is based firstly on the objective of increasing electoral activity, i.e. the democratic participation of the people in collective decision-making, and secondly on the objective of modernising electoral practice by introducing new IT solutions. The pursuit of greater turnout is based on the principle of the generality of the elections, which requires that all persons with a right to vote be guaranteed the possibility to participate in the elections. The measures taken by the State to ensure that as much of the electorate as possible can participate in the elections are justified and desirable. In accordance with the principles of freedom of election and the secrecy of voting, the state must create the necessary conditions for free voting and protect the electorate from influence that prevents him from giving his vote in the way he wants or from voting. The possibility of changing e-voting provides an important additional guarantee of compliance with the principle of freedom and secrecy of elections in e-voting. This includes a reduction in the motivation for the illegal influence of the electorate. In conclusion, the Supreme Court took the view that when giving the opportunity to change e-voting, the legislator has found an appropriate balance between all constitutional electoral principles when considering different principles and the values behind them. This should also answer the fourth question of the members of the Riigikogu, which concerns checking the context of e-voting, and the fifth question on the constitutionality of re-voting in e-voting. In the resolution of March this year, the Supreme Court states that if, after the vote has been given, the electoral body is informed of the successful transmission of its vote to the electoral body for the benefit of its elected candidate, but the vote does not actually reach the electoral committee of the Republic and the election committee of the Republic does not register such a blocking, it is a violation of the subjective electoral right guaranteed by the Constitution. In such a case, the voter has no legally guaranteed opportunity to cast his vote in favour of the candidate in the way he chooses. I would add that the infringement in this case is precisely due to the fact that the voter will not be aware of the blocking. This means that the electorate cannot go to court to defend its rights either. In the second resolution of March of this year, the Supreme Court stresses that when organising e-voting, the state has the task of ensuring that the software used in elections is compatible with the most commonly used hardware, as well as with operating systems, screen resolutions or scripting, but it may be difficult to achieve such compatibility on a case-by-case basis. If problems arise, the voter will be able to turn to technical support for e-voting and if the problem cannot be eliminated, the voter will be able to vote on the ballot paper. This should in general answer the third question of the members of the Riigikogu concerning the technical side of e-voting and the sixth question about the reliability and controlability of the e-vote in current technical solutions. At this point, I will stop reproposing the positions of the Supreme Court. All that remains to be added is that I consider all these positions of the Supreme Court to be fully justified. On the first question of the members of the Riigikogu, my position is asked as to whether the time of pre-voting is in accordance with § 60 of the Constitution, according to which the regular elections of the Riigikogu take place on the first Sunday of March. The second question concerned electoral agitation during e-voting. First of all, I would point out that e-voting is not the only means of voting that precedes the first Sunday of March and during which electoral intervention takes place. The same situation applies to pre-voting at the polling station, including voting outside the polling district of residence, voting at the detention centre and on a ship flying the flag of Estonia in international or foreign waters, as well as voting abroad. I am of the opinion that § 60 of the Constitution cannot be interpreted as excluding any form of pre-voting, taking into account, on the other hand, the need to ensure the generality of the elections and thereby the greatest possible legitimacy of the Riigikogu. I recall the Supreme Court ruling that the measures taken by the state to ensure that the largest possible proportion of the electorate is able to participate in the elections are legitimate and desirable. As regards the admissibility of electoral agitation during e-voting, unlike the election day on the first Sunday of March, I recall once again the Supreme Court's ruling that it is not, in principle, possible or constitutionally required to ensure full equality in the exercise of the right to vote. At the same time, I would point out that the prohibition of electoral agitation from the first opportunity to make its voting decision in the primary elections could mean a ban on electoral agitation, even earlier than 20 days before the election day, and would appear to be disproportionate in terms of the right to information and access, both actively and passively. The European Court of Human Rights has also repeatedly expressed the view that, just before the elections, people's minds are focused on political processes and elections, which is why allowing political freedom of expression at that time is particularly important. All in all, I note that by nature e-voting is not different from voting in the voting booth. It is simply an opportunity for the voters to choose which technical solution to use to express their will. The problems of the technical solution that need to be resolved do not automatically mean that the idea of e-voting is not constitutionally feasible at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U55	Thank you very much, Chancellor. You have questions. I would first like to ask Mr Aadu Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Were similar experiences in other countries followed in shaping the Chancellor of Justice's opinion? For example, in my non-high professionalism in this area, I take the view, or I have understood, that it was considered appropriate in the German country to stop e-voting, because it does not ensure that the full voter's will is passed, despite the fact that their technical level and basis are not weaker than ours. There wasn't any contradiction here, was there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U57	Thank you! The question is that Estonia really is ahead of the innovation in question. Nor is it right to say that other countries are not interested in introducing e-voting. Indeed, Estonia is currently the only one of its kind at this level, but if we are talking about the reliability of the electronic world at all, I would draw a parallel with banking: we trust the banks with our money, which stands there in electronic form. However, since this has gone to European experience, I am going to dwell a little on the practice of different countries, which shows that other countries are also very interested in e-voting. Norway, for example. Last year, the Norwegian Government launched the 'E-vote 2011' project, which will lead to the launch of the "E-vote 2011' project. e-voting tests in 10 local governments during the local elections in September 2004. This includes electronic counting, or scanning, of the votes cast online as well as of the votes recorded on paper ballots. The aim of the project is to create a secure e-voting solution for the election of parliament, local government and county councils. In the Czech Republic, the Ministry of the Interior has launched a pilot electronic selection project aimed at conducting e-voting testing in 2012. The U.S. Department of Defence is also actively seeking solutions that would enable US military and civilian citizens abroad to vote online. In Spain, one of the first regions to vote online has been Catalonia. During the last ten years, e-voting has been tested at the level of the local parliament, local authorities and universities, and work on this is ongoing. The e-vote is also being tested in Switzerland. Belgium has expressed its interest in organising online voting for foreign Belgians, and the representatives of the state have also met with the Estonian Election Commission. Slovakia has also shown interest. Austria used online voting in the 2009 student union leaders elections, which was an important pilot project for moving to national level. Russia's pilot project for online voting was carried out in a slightly different way, using a CD. It was 2008-2009. In Latvia e-voting is written into a coalition agreement. So there are countries that would like to move towards e-voting, but it has to be taken into account that European countries have very strong traditions and have an impact. But I stress that Estonia should not lose its innovative position.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U58	Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U59	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You mentioned that full equality in elections is not possible, but it would be possible to make sure that e-choices do not have the possibility of re-voting. It is clear that the person who has voted once will still change his or her decision as a result of some influence. But I was not satisfied with the answer to that previous question. Tell me, please, are the countries of old legal culture, such as Germany, England, France and many others, primitive in your opinion that they only choose on paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U60	I didn't say they were primitive. I said that in certain areas Estonia is more innovative and we are moving faster. In addition, we must take into account that, although there are common values for fundamental rights and freedoms in Europe, each country has its own constitution. Our Supreme Court has checked e-voting repeatedly and found that it is basically constitutional. At the same time, it is natural that there are problems in each area and that the area can be further developed. If you look more attentively at any election in the so-called old Europe, if such a term can be used at all, there are always problems. And these problems usually occur when voices divide relatively evenly between political forces. Then suddenly it's discovered that there are a lot of mistakes in the system. One question was the amendment of the electoral decision. I believe that this system is optimal if a person can change his voice. This ensures that, if the person initially is affected, there is always confidence that he can change his decision. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U61	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! You referred to one of your responses to e-banking and its security, but we have all heard about the break-in of e-banks all over the world and the money being lost from accounts. In that case, the bank will repay the lost money to the client. Now the rhetorical question is, who compensates for the lost voices? But my question concerns something entirely different. If the IT solution of the e-vote works smoothly and the possible security risks are minimised, it can ensure fair and completely legal elections along with the current Code. However, do you not see the danger that, because of the large, unearthed IT security risks, the current code is not enough to ensure that the elections are in accordance with the Constitution, perhaps to be honest and also to be fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U63	Of course, the legal space can be improved and, as I understand it, the honourable legislator has started to go this way to create additional control mechanisms to ensure that e-voting takes place smoothly. In the first half of the question, a comparison was made that if anything was lost from the bank, the bank would make up for the damage. But in principle, the Supreme Court has also said that according to the law, the Supreme Court has the right to cancel the results of the voting in the state. However, this can only be done if the Supreme Court comes to the conclusion that the offence had or could have had a significant impact on the outcome of the vote. However, such a hedging mechanism, so-called the possibility of a refund, exists. The College of the Supreme Court has admitted that in view of the proportion of votes cast electronically in the Riigikogu elections, infringements may have a significant impact on the outcome of the elections in electronic voting. This theoretical possibility therefore exists and if it is discovered, the Supreme Court may cancel the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U64	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U65	Thank you. Mr Chancellor of Justice! If I vote at the polling station, I can be sure that my Bulletin is right where it will be registered afterwards. I'm also 100 percent sure that I gave the vote to the candidate I wanted to give it to, and he's going to get it, at least very likely. If I vote electronically, I don't have any certainty, I don't know if my voice will arrive and if it will go to the person I wanted to vote for. At the same time, IT specialists claim that it is quite easy to secure the necessary feedback so that the person knows exactly that his or her vote has been received and given to who he or she wanted. Do you see a contradiction with the current Code when applying such a methodology?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U66	Thank you for your question. When you come to the beginning of the question, the alternative really gives the certainty you want. If the voter has more confidence in voting with a note, then there is an opportunity. The problem would indeed be perhaps greater if Estonia had only e-voting. But if you look more broadly, philosophically, the question of the credibility of elections is also, in a good sense, the question of people's trust, i.e. how this system is trusted and how this system is organised. Well, not only arranged, but also manageable. If you vote on the note, you can't rule out a violation in the booth. All I want to say is that no system gives 100% guarantees, there is always some kind of violation. And as I have made clear by examining and checking the matter: if there has been a violation, it will also come out in the case of an e-vote. But yes, in terms of how to develop the e-vote further, to create a duplicate control system, the legislator has a free hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U67	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U68	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Your Honor, Chancellor! Our parliamentary elections and e-voting have certainly been followed by many countries of the European Union and certainly have given examples of our disadvantages and advantages to our Members of this Parliament. The OSCE organisation has also analysed and submitted a report on our parliamentary elections. This report also deals with the legal provisions on e-voting, including the conditions under which the results of the online vote will be cancelled and how it will be done. In the OSCE's view, the Estonian state should specify and specify these provisions. How do you feel about such a remark?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U69	Thank you! I have read this OSCE report, and I would like to stress that these remarks do not apply to the nature of the e-vote system. There is no evidence that could categorically claim that it is unconstitutional. However, as I have already said, every system can always be developed so that it is more sure that it will be more problematic. There's no denying that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U70	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Chancellor of Justice! Here's my question. Look, we don't have anyone going to the voting booth with a friend or a friend of mine, that's out of the question. This is how I am protected from being influenced as a voter. When I vote at home, no one knows what's going on next to me. And even if it is only a matter of choosing on paper, there has been a strong influence. We all know cases where our politicians have been caught buying votes, and this has happened every time there is an election. Did I understand this logic correctly that the possibility of re-voting in an electronic environment means that the legislator hopes that if the influencer is next to the hitchhiker and pushes the mouse key for him, then he leaves after that and when he is no longer present, the person will finally make his choice? That logic seems a little weird to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U72	My position is based on the Supreme Court's view that this is an additional possible guarantee that supposed illegal influence may be unnecessary. At the same time, I stress that certain actions are deeply private and it is also very natural for a person to vote for himself without being influenced by anyone. However, if he uses someone else's help or someone affects him, there are always all kinds of influences in society. But ultimately, everyone can vote in the most ordinary way by using the ballot paper, which should mitigate all threats.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U73	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U74	Thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Certainly, in some countries, there are different levels of thinking about whether to start using e-votes. Have your colleagues, Chancellors of Justice of other countries, or their teams, addressed you directly to receive comments that, since they are planning such things, what problems do we have? And if they have done so, what have the basic questions or their problems been?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U75	No one has formally approached, but I have discussed this with ombudsmen from different countries. It's just that it's come up, and most people have explained in private that it takes them a lot of time. But officially, no one's turned.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U76	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U77	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! There's been talk about privacy. There really are questions. For example, several people vote on one computer, and more or less at the same time, and a number of them are over 80, then, of course, the question arises whether they made their own decision or were assisted by someone. And, of course, how secret my vote is when I'm in the system with my ID card and it's absolutely understandable how and by whom I voted for. Now, these questions are quite important if we start discussing how to organise all of this in the future. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U78	I'm based on the assumption that everyone is acting and carrying out their own self-determination and that no one else on the side can decide in his place. Of course, however, it is a matter of every person's conscience to consult on how he makes his or her political choice. It's basically a matter of human privacy. But in this sense, voting on the classic note is really different. However, it is not right to believe that when a person uses an e-vote, his voice goes somewhere in an electronic black box. I don't know exactly what's going to happen there, but the assumption that something bad is going to happen isn't right. There are control systems to control everything electronically. And as far as I can tell about the e-world, there's a trace of every action. If anyone does something, it's verifiable. And if there has been a significant influence, the Supreme Court will be able to cancel the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U79	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U80	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I honestly say that I personally support e-elections, although I agree that there may be small problems in both IT and legal. However, I still did not understand this point of view as regards the re-election. That the first time I may be influenced, when I do a second e-vote on my computer, it's like there's hope that no one will ever affect me again. Am I right to understand that this position is the result of a decision of the Supreme Court? And two, what's your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U81	My personal opinion, thank you for asking, basically coincides with the positions of the Supreme Court. This opportunity to change the vote is, in my view, a positive one, because it is an additional guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U82	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U83	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Chancellor of Justice! I come back to your answer, which you have just given to one of my fellow Members: that there is a trace of everything. At the same time, we know that the results of the e-vote will be destroyed very quickly after the votes have been read, but I do not remember exactly, but I think it was seven days after the election results have been confirmed. Do you think this is enough time? After all, there may be some dispute or court settlements and there may be a need to prove where that truth and right are.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U84	Thank you for your question. In principle, there is currently an opportunity to challenge the results within this period. It must be borne in mind that Parliament cannot fail to form. First, the disputes will be debated and then Parliament will be formed. This period should not be too long. As long as the results are stored electronically, I can't tell you this by heart. How long it would make sense, that is the second question. But as I emphasised in my reply, in the current system, I fully agree with the Supreme Court that this is not in conflict with the Constitution. However, other, additional regulations may be envisaged.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U85	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Good Chancellor of Justice! If I vote on paper, I will not be given the opportunity to vote for the entire family, even though they would trust me to do so. But if you vote electronically and if they trust me with their IDs, I can essentially vote for the whole family. Don't you see the contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U87	There are two different technical ways in which the voter's will becomes apparent. They're connected to the nature of this thing. In electronic voting, we rely on the assumption that a person is using his or her own voting opportunities. Assuming that the entire family collects their ID cards together, you can always expect very different things. But we rely on man's own exercise of the right to vote. And if we follow this, we're going to get a positive result in every way. That's not gonna change the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U88	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U89	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Chancellor of Justice! You said in reply that there were problems in each area. In this regard, I would like to ask you, as Chancellor of Justice, what are our problems in electronic voting? Or aren't there any?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U90	Thank you for your question. I'd still only be on the constitutional level. Certainly, the legislator has the opportunity to supplement the system, it is always possible to create additional control systems so that the voter has confidence: it is fair and clear. However, I stress once again that since the Supreme Court has clearly stated that by its very nature the e-vote is not in conflict with the Constitution, I will stick to that position as well. In essence, I fully support it. I consider Estonia's innovation to be very sensible. And even if we assume that there are problems, these are not problems that result from a conflict with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U91	No further questions. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for giving me answers. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I imagine that someone in the board of some kind of trading chain, we'll take Selver or Prisma, and we'll just set up boxes for money. Let's make sure there's some fine money so a man can take the money back, everything else stays the same. We're going to go shopping so that we take the goods ourselves and pay as the Chancellor of Justice said, on the basis that the person realizes his right to buy himself. I just traded the right to vote for the right to buy. Some things need to be compared as a process, don't you think? Two years ago, I was a member of the electoral commission and I followed the elections to the European Parliament to see how this really happens, what the problems are. We were very close to ensuring that no one left a single note in the booth, so that God would hold it when one point appears on the list in the booth, right? All lists should be replaced and the minutes indicate that such an incident took place. It was also necessary to make sure that there was no commercial anywhere. Every half an hour, someone from the Commission had to go out of the voting room, walk down the corridor to the exit and find out if there was any incentive material in the corner. In particular, it was strictly monitored that no one would go into the booth alone or the three of them would be excluded, and that should not be the case. Sometimes it was forbidden to go there even with a child, let the child wait here, you think alone, because the rules are like that. If we had the rules that apply to electronic dialing in Estonia, then first, any signs in the booth are allowed as you wish. Secondly, advertising is allowed both in the voting room and in the hallway, in any place where the voter will vote. Three, take the cabs off! There's no point in this cab! Let the people come in packing and vote in the choir, no problem at all. I have this feeling that the Chancellor of Justice is talking about innovation and trying to prove to us that it is very progressive that it is very good. But since he's already offered to speak philosophically, I'm not sure that everything we call progressive is actually good. Our predecessors had to face him, face him, and everything depended on personal courage and skill. Later, these qualities were no longer needed for what, if you have a machine gun, let alone an atom bomb? At the same time, the machine gun and the atomic bomb are examples of real technical progress. But everything that technological progress, innovative progress brings, is not good. You don't have to use all of this. It's pretty weird some people don't get it. For example, the Chancellor of Justice says there will be traces. There's no sign of anything! Mr Chancellor of Justice, you're just saying straight away, you don't share this. I have a lot of friends who are top-class programmers, and they go to the polls, they don't vote electronically. They understand perfectly what can happen to their voice. It can disappear, it can go to another candidate, it can reproduce, it can happen no matter what, and there's no trace. This is not possible because there is enough advanced technology. The voter has the option of choosing which solution is suitable for him, claims the Chancellor of Justice. But why does one have to be more preferred than the other? One person has to work hard to go to the polling station and comply with all the rules so that the result is likely to be 99.9999% correct and honest. The second may offer to sell its vote, as the last election found several times on the Internet sold its votes, and if the buyer is stupid enough, it is possible to sell his vote several times. All these opportunities exist and there is no way to control them. It is, of course, the view that we must support everything that is new, which is innovative. Times change, one day there will be clarity on this too. But the problem is sometimes that it can happen too late when people have already forgotten what is an honest election. Ask any mathematics teacher if today's children, who are very progressive, who use not only calculators, but each of them also have a candy, can calculate without a paper-pen, just add, subtract, let alone divide and multiply! We should be vigilant and limit everything that threatens democracy from the start. At least to the extent that life requires our own, pragmatism demands. The answer is only words, words, and words. We rely on man to exercise his right to vote himself. What if he doesn't have that chance? If he is dependent on his employer? There are many of these opportunities! Once again, we held a debate on the subject of electronic voting, and once again, the result is the same. What can I do about it? Looks like the later we get smarter, the more interesting it gets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U93	Thank you. Would the Chancellor of Justice like another word? No, I don't. That concludes the issue of this inquiry. Thank you very much to the answer, and thank you to the questioners!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U94	The next question is to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. As the representative of the inquisitors, I would like to ask you to speak to Inara Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 2 May, we launched an inquiry into the feasibility of the Climate and Energy Agency for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. It is appropriate to make a brief overview of how the Climate and Energy Agency was born and how 86 million kroons were allocated to it. In 2009, when there was a second reading of the state budget in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu, there was little pleasure for certain political parties. The additional budget for 2009 allocated EEK 86 million to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In 2009, an agency was also to be set up with the aim of becoming an independent organisation, but this money could not be used throughout the year and was assigned to the 2010 budget in 2009. Later, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications signed a contract with KredEx, a department was formed, the dowry of which was 86 million kroons. We have asked questions on this subject to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and have also made inquiries to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir, who has pointed out that the use of money has not been meaningful and that there are many other negative aspects to the agency. At the same time, Marek Strandberg, Chairman of the Agency's Advisory Board, has argued that the Agency has been set up in an exemplary manner, a number of conditions have been met, including the launch of several projects, such as support measures for the renovation of apartment buildings and the programme for electric cars. At the same time, however, we know that very many measures, as well as activities, duplicate those of KredEx. After the start of the new Riigikogu, however, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also realised that it needs a detailed overview of the Climate and Energy Agency. It would be appropriate for the Ministry to have all information relating to the Agency's projects and which contracts the Agency has concluded. It is likely that, based on this detailed review, the government could also make prudent decisions on the future. We have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, waiting for meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U96	Thank you very much. The question must be answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U97	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer the questions. The first question: 'The new Riigikogu consists of four political groups. To what extent does the change in the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications relate to the fact that the Estonian Greens of the Party are excluded from the new Riigikogu? " Answer: not in any way. The second question: 'What do you think are the most important projects carried out by the Climate and Energy Agency? Why couldn't these projects be carried out by KredEx? ' First of all, I note that the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not changed as regards the need for an implementation unit to support the implementation of the national renewable energy policy related to energy savings. Let me remind you that, in principle, the establishment of an agency of this kind was proposed to the government by the National Development Plan for the Energy Economy approved by the Riigikogu until 2020. This development plan sets out, as one of its objectives, the development of optimal organisational arrangements for the development of the energy sector and for dealing with emissions trade. Such a certain implementing agency is necessary. I have also replied to you here earlier that the first priority of the Climate and Energy Agency has been to contribute more to the energy efficiency of buildings. The agency was formed as a department of the foundation KredEx from its creation, not the way you said it would be somewhere in the meantime, and continues to date. Specialists working at KredEx Foundation are on a good level, their work has been of great benefit in implementing energy saving policy. Some examples just to confirm. First of all, Climate and Energy Agency specialists developed a scheme to support the development of comprehensive renovation projects for apartment buildings. The aim is to provide stronger support for reconstruction projects aimed at increasing energy savings by competent designers. Secondly, a grant scheme aimed at local authorities who have received reconstruction support under the HOME list to carry out initially more in-depth renovation or construction work that achieves higher energy savings in buildings. Thirdly, development to develop minimum energy performance requirements for new buildings. Workers' proposals on possible new minimum energy performance requirements, including the definitions of low-energy houses and nearly zero-energy houses, have now been finalised. In addition, there are a number of initiatives in the field of transport, such as the so-called electricity mobility programme, plus possible grants for projects in municipalities or in the third sector in the field of transport. Question 3: 'As a minister, you stopped all new commitments and contracts at the Climate and Energy Agency for projects prepared by the Advisory Board. Does the Ministry have an overview of the amount spent by the Agency during its term of office? ' An audit was carried out to verify the activities of the Climate and Energy Agency. As a result, 814500 euros had been spent on 31 March 2011 out of 86 million kroons allocated to the Agency, i.e. 5.56 million euros. Contractual commitments of almost EUR 2 million have been made, but the money has not been paid out because all these contracts have to be executed first and only then will the subsequent payments be made. As of 31 March 2011, the outstanding balance was EUR 2,753 million. Just in the background, I can tell you how many projects are in progress. Question 4: "Why didn't the agency's feasibility be analysed before the Agency was set up, and this is only now done ex post? ' Your claim that it has not been analysed is unfounded. In the National Development Plan for the Energy Economy until 2020, approved by the Riigikogu, the development of an "Optimal organisational organisation for the development of the energy sector and for dealing with emissions trading' measure 3.2 is a task that cannot be performed without an implementing agency such as that already exists in several European countries. These tasks are awareness-raising programmes targeted at different sectors, support measures, more detailed analyses of the implementation of the state energy policy, international cooperation, etc., according to the development plan. In essence, the Agency's tasks were already known before it was set up and have not changed much since 2009. However, the question was, What could be the organisational arrangement of the Climate and Energy Agency? Given the possibilities for an additional budget for 2009, as well as the need to launch new initiatives to help boost the economy, the Climate and Energy Agency was established as a pilot project in KredEx. I believe that this was the right time for a mid-term review, which is why this audit was commissioned. We have come to the conclusion that this activity of the Climate and Energy Agency, which concerns analytical work, monitoring work and international cooperation, could be the task of the Development Fund, financing specific projects depending on the nature of the project, but whether it is the task of KredEx, the Environmental Investment Centre or any other agency under government. We are currently negotiating on this issue with the Development Fund, and we hope to reach an agreement in the coming months that some of the functions of the Climate and Energy Agency will be taken over by the Development Fund, some of which will remain with KredEx.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U98	Thank you. You have questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The Energy and Climate Agency is definitely necessary for the Estonian state. I never doubted that. Except the government hasn't been able to get this agency to work properly in this year and a half. Really, it's a good thing you're doing the revision now. Do you have an internal belief that this energy agency will still be set up as it should, so that it deals with what it is meant to do and what climate and energy agencies in other countries are doing, rather than sharing any political amount of money? Are you gonna make him work like this so he can deal with strategic issues, not share money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U100	I hope that the question is over. This is incredible, Mr. Kaljuvee! You keep asking me questions, asking the Auditor General, asking the Minister for Finance to confirm that this is some sort of huge political amount that you are referring to a green party somewhere. You have found no confirmation of your claim, but you are so obsessed with this claim, you know, it happens from time to time that you didn't actually listen to what I said here, if I'm not wrong now, for the fourth time today. I did not deliberately read out the various functions, various projects and initiatives that the Climate and Energy Agency has been able to do in this year and a half. You started your question with the indication that they have done nothing. I guess I should take out the paperwork again. I actually have huge extras on what has been done in other areas alongside the energy efficiency of buildings. You just can't fight those facts. Now the answer to whether the agency could be better put to work. The answer is clearly yes. But clearly, your attempt to portray the establishment of the Climate and Energy Agency as some sort of act of political power or any other mysterious transaction that took place without your knowledge or your involvement has had its effect. That's not true! Once again, it is not true, and you are actually lost! Unfortunately, the reputation of the Climate and Energy Agency has been somewhat damaged, let us admit that. And if someone's reputation is damaged, it is quite difficult to work with greater intensity in a small society like Estonia. Especially if the main weapon of such an institution is the word, information, revised conclusions, which are aimed at Estonian decision-makers, entrepreneurs, politicians, state officials and simply residents. You regularly come here to understand that the Climate and Energy Agency is like some al-Qaeda cell, and of course it will be extremely difficult for the agency to come up with folk lighting positions and new information.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U101	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, A year ago, your colleague was asked what he thinks of the Agency's activities. He then gave quite a colourful estimate of his didn't know what kind of creature it was. But it's been a year, and now you said that part of the agency's activities goes to the Development Fund, the other part to KredEx's expertise. Maybe that's right. I'm not going to argue right now. But tell me, what's left with the agency? Perhaps it would have been practical to immediately strengthen the development fund and KredEx in view of these trends, one year and a half ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U103	I don't think I'm making a very wise comment on the preamble to your question. You probably referred to a colleague of the Minister for Finance who has recently placed himself in such aggressive anti-popularism. From this point of view, it could be argued that a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, is doing exactly what one very polished populist does. He takes public opinion and turns four more nuts on it. You try to beat the Climate and Energy Agency with your feet and hands, push it out of the Estonian public arena, and Jürgen Ligi was your good ally here. This is not the case, however, and I believe that Jürgen Ligi actually knows what kind of creature the agency is and what kind of creature it could be in Estonia. Now, the function distribution. One of the ideas of the Climate and Energy Agency was that, in addition to the task of a so-called brain trust, it could also have the resources to carry out certain pilot projects. That is why the Climate and Energy Agency received more money from the 2009 additional budget than normal operating costs. That was the original plan. If you look at the initiatives of the Climate Agency, in addition to research and analysis, reports, it should have certain amounts for pilot projects. At present, one of the issues of negotiation with the Development Fund is the extent to which the Development Fund should also be able to deal with individual pilot projects in order to gain experience in one area or another where testing is needed. It has always been clear that implementing measures, when we talk about energy and climate action, remain competent for institutions under government and government authority. KredEx has dealt with the energy savings of apartment buildings all the time, the Environmental Investment Centre has dealt with measures aimed at so-called carbon savings in different areas. These measures are partly managed by the PRIA and the EAS. Thus, there are several institutions under the authority of the government, which, to one degree or another, deal with measures whose objectives overlap with those of exemplary energy and climate policy. Why did I also agree to the Greens proposal to launch pilot projects in 2009? This seemed reasonable, and it actually seems partly reasonable at the moment. But to save the Climate and Energy Agency from your constant attack, the development fund seems to be the right choice. I can say, as a marginal remark, that also in 2009, when this idea was put on the table and it seemed reasonable to me, as Minister for Economic Affairs, that we could do something that was already foreseen in the energy economic development plan, then my initial vision was that it could be under the Development Fund. But there was an idea, I don't mean to say that it was too raw, but the development fund was quite skeptical. They had a lot of priorities. They have now reviewed their position and are very interested in developing this kind of action in the Development Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U104	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U105	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. This is the top political demagogy if you are now accusing the opposition ambassadors of determining the fate of KEA. Listening to your current inquiry, it seemed that there had been no problem with this agency. I recall the report by the Auditor General here in the Chamber where he pointed out a number of shortcomings, including shortcomings in frame policy. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have twice wished to discuss this audit. Is it true that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not wanted to present it to us? Can you tell me what's in there that shouldn't be read by the ambassadors?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U106	I agree, in principle, with the choice of leaders. Theoretically. However, my life experience shows that you certainly have much more of this than I do, that it is increasingly difficult to find very good people in competitions. By the way, this is a very interesting Estonian paradox. I may be off the subject, but indeed, finding very good people in very responsible places through a competition is becoming more and more difficult, even in the public sector. I can tell you a whole series of examples that the competition has essentially failed. But now the answer to your specific question, Mr. Vakra. Since you are in Parliament for the first time, you do not know who belonged to this Climate and Energy Agency Advisory Board, whose members took the courage to appoint a leader without a competition. Just to get this thing started fast. The council included Mr Kaljuvee, a representative of the Central Party Group, and there were five other people from the Riigikogu who represented all the political groups in the previous Riigikogu. The council was made up of representatives of the most important ministries, including the representative of the Ministry of Finance, the minister of which said that he did not know what kind of elephant or thing this agency is, the representative of the Ministry of the Environment and the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And that is not all, including the representatives of the four most important associations of companies. These are companies that are in contact with this sector, the associations of heating and ventilation companies and others. So there was a rather representative collection, 13 to 15 members. That is why I am surprised by your criticism. Mr. Kaljuvee is already preparing to come to this speech chair, even though he could have sent his speech directly to the verbatim. Mr. Kaljuvee, why didn't you do the job in the council didn't make them work right? One man is also a soldier on the battlefield, an important bet. So some criticism is your self-criticism, but also self-criticism is a force that can lead forward, not backwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U107	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U108	Madam President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It must be said that all that has been said about what has been done and what has been decided by the Minister for Climate and Energy is true. It must be acknowledged that indeed this agency has done a great deal of work on the insulation of buildings and on all kinds of specific projects. And it is not the first but the third time that I have confirmed that this agency has done a good job in this regard. A lot of projects have been developed and millions have been shared. But what this agency didn't do, Mr. Secretary, he didn't tell me. Maybe we didn't ask the best about it. In fact, the agency has missed a lot. Like what? It has not been done that Estonia is the only country in the European Union to which no CO2 quota has been fixed. After all, both the Auditor General and all those ambassadors who have asked about the Agency's work here have stressed that the Agency does not have to deal with any narrow projects. Indeed, these pilot projects are necessary and can also be dealt with and well done if they can, but above all, the Energy and Climate Agency must address strategic issues, strategic decisions and not plan small projects. It's been our whole confrontation! I respect Juhan Parts and many of his activities. I have no personal hatred for either the ministry or the minister or the energy economy. It has really been our wish that this agency be put on the right track. It's nice that the Ministry of the Economy has conducted an audit of the Agency. There must have been some mistakes, and they're trying to make things better. Perhaps our role is also to try to put this organization on the right footing. One of the right bases is how the driver is chosen. I didn't choose that Fox as leader. I was a member of the Council and I took part in this Council twice. I have said here that I could not participate more because for me the Council's ways and methods were not right and if you are the voice of a shouter in the desert or a soldier in the field, you will not always be able to act on your conscience. We chose to talk about problems in this room because my voice didn't come out of that hall. I tried twice, but I was such a lame man that I couldn't fix the house. I thought the minister's power was much greater, and I'd help him find the right way through this hall. I am very pleased that the Minister will also find this way through difficulties and, in the end, the Energy Agency will really be dealing with what it has to deal with. I would like to emphasise once again: the energy agency must address strategic issues of energy and climate policy in particular. The same example that I have given of the CO2 quota shows that it has not dealt with them. I can give you dozens of examples like this, but that's it for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U109	Thank you very much. There are no more requests for negotiation. Would the waitress like to make a final statement? No, I don't. The third issue of inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U110	I cannot comment or answer whether the results of this audit are for internal or public use. I cannot imagine any paper that would not be read by a member of the Riigikogu is my first response. But I want to comment on the concept of whether there are problems or not. I'm sure there's a problem! Mr Kaljuvee and Mr Efendijev almost agree here that there is always room for improvement. I would like to comment on these assessments. I remember well when my good friend, the Auditor General, was in this hall with a loud voice, so the walls were shaking, talking about this agency. I don't want to criticize the Auditor General, but I have to say it's as good as having a pediatrician diagnose a newly born child that he doesn't know anything about Albert Einstein and hasn't heard from Mozart either. What's the diagnosis?! It's not too early to diagnose! The Climate and Energy Agency was actually intended to be an institution that must support the necessary changes in Estonian society, in a situation where there is so much going on in the field of energy and climate in the world. It is quite unfounded to take such fundamental views, which were so successfully amplified by the MPs of the Centre Party: that this is some kind of political agreement that is, as if, impossible to bring to light. That's completely wrong! It's not right to say that!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U111	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U112	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'd still argue with you. Actually, there was a political agreement. That 86 million literally came to this agency, and that was it. At the same time as the Riigikogu in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I saw this bill and I was very impressed that we were not given any explanatory notes, no analyses, no justifications, nothing. It's just $86 million, and that's it! Now we're wondering how this agency is going to work, what its tasks are, and so on. As a reminder, the Greens made another request. In particular, they wanted a further EUR 100 million to be allocated to them in 2010 in addition to this EUR 86 million. This bill didn't go through. My question is that you have made some kind of audit, but we have not read the summary. Can you tell us what will happen to this agency in 2012 as a result of this audit?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U113	Okay, I'm not gonna comment on your beautiful claims, even though they all need to be handled separately. In 2012, I think, the 'analytical' side of this agency will certainly continue with the Development Fund. By then, they'll have settled in and wind into their wings! As far as implementing projects are concerned, we are currently looking for one agency for a clear initiative that has found a very positive reception and additional resources. This is actually our first move. I am thinking of significant and very attractive support for housing associations so that they can finally get out of the bottleneck and start investing in the energy efficiency of houses. This program must definitely continue. Then there's the electric mobility program, where we're starting to get to the implementation phase. We do not know what its real results will be in the near and distant future, but we must implement it. I also think that there are important issues concerning our industry's energy efficiency programmes. Continued measures aimed at wider and effective deployment of renewable energy. If you're watching what's going on in the world, you might have noticed what happened last weekend. A report commissioned by the United Nations and the World Bank announced that biofuels should be stopped in transport as a matter of urgency. It's a question of what's gonna happen now. What is progress in transport at all if we have adopted very broad goals? Not only in Estonia, but in Europe as a whole, can we reduce or increase the share of renewable fuels in transport? Jne, et cetera. So there is a very important work to be done and, in my imagination, it is precisely in the development fund. Of course, implementing programmes are also important to trigger one or another change in Estonian society, households, entrepreneurship, state apparatus.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U114	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U115	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I don't want to look back. I'm looking forward. How much do you apply to the Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi to get it into next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U116	I have not yet submitted a draft budget. However, the substantive answer is that perhaps no additional amounts are needed in the budget by 2012. It all depends on the vision of the management of the Development Fund. Rather, it is a question of financing the development fund. If we look at projects that are related in one way or another to this area in KredEx and KIC, KredEx is primarily concerned with the energy efficiency programme for apartment buildings. We are now working hard to figure out how to increase the interest of housing companies in this program. It's money, but there's little demand in the market. How can it be increased? The negotiations with the Development Fund will depend on whether or not additional money is needed by 2012. If so, these are certainly not some very large amount of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U117	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U118	Thank you. Good minister! I agree with you on this and hardly that there is anyone in this Chamber who thinks that the Climate and Energy Agency is not necessary. It is an honour for me to discuss this with you for the first time, although you, as you said, are here for the fourth time on this issue. Your message was that a certain part of the MPs are trying to make the Climate and Energy Agency look like an al-Qaeda cell in the public eye, and that made me the next question. At least one of the people who criticised the Agency on previous occasions is right. When we look at how leaders are elected in Western countries, it usually requires a competition, conversations, and a broader reflection of how a state institution gets its leader. Especially when it comes to an institution as important as we have the Climate and Energy Agency. This time, this leader was simply appointed by the Council by decision. Can you really draw parallels here with an al-Qaeda cell? I don't think that's where the leaders are democratically elected, do you?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U119	Let's go to the next question. This has also been submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. First of all, as the representative of the speakers of the chair, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U120	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, On 4 May, 15 members of the Social Democratic Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, which is motivated by the activities of Eesti Post. Last year Eesti Post's turnover was 53.2 million euros and profit 7.2 million euros. At the same time, the company suffered a loss of EUR 0.8 million in the provision of universal postal services, which, according to both Chairman of the Supervisory Board Meelis Atonen and member of the Management Board Aavo Kärmas, is not normal. And it's not normal. According to Kärmas, the company will face a loss of EUR 4 million in the future as a result of the universal service. If the country does not propose a solution in the coming months, the Council will propose that the agreement be terminated. That is what President Atonen said, adding that if necessary, they will go to court. As regards the profit of Eesti Post in 2010, it was only made through the sale of real estate, according to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Eesti Post only suffered losses from universal services, maintenance of the postal network and sending of letters. Now I quote Mr Atonen: 'We have a duty to maintain a post office in all areas and the price of the stamp has not been raised in a long time. " That was Mr Atonen's distressing description. In recent times, we have had to see that Estonian Post has consistently closed post offices, especially in rural areas. There is information that this will continue in the near future. That is why we have three questions for Mr Parts, to which we want adequate answers that satisfy the people of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U121	Thank you. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U122	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! The first question: 'Has Eesti Post submitted an application to the Competition Authority pursuant to § 411 (1) of the Postal Law to compensate for unreasonable costs of fulfilling the universal postal service obligation? " The information provided by the Competition Authority shows that Eesti Post has submitted an application to the Competition Authority for 2010 pursuant to § 411 (1) of the Postal Act to compensate for the unreasonable burden of discharging the universal postal service obligation. The second question: 'Why is the state not subsidising the universal services offered by Eesti Post in the required amount? ' To clarify, the state does not subsidise the activities of AS Eesti Post, but the state compensates for the unreasonable costs associated with the universal postal service. Unfortunately, due to the deficiencies in the application submitted by Eesti Post, the Competition Authority has still not been able to satisfy this. In particular, the methodology used in the application to calculate the unreasonable burden does not meet the requirement of objectivity and causality in subsection 40 (5) of the Postal Act and the methodology developed by the Competition Authority for assessing the costs of the universal postal service provider. In addition, Eesti Post has not taken into account in its application the requirements arising from Regulation No 20 of the Minister of Economic Affairs of 6 March 2009 "Requirements for the Income and Cost Calculation of the Universal Postal Service Provider'. In the course of the procedure, the Competition Authority has repeatedly pointed out to Eesti Post that Eesti Post must take into account this methodology and the requirements of the Regulation in its application, as otherwise the Competition Authority may reject the application of Eesti Post. As the Competition Authority is in the process of proceeding with the 2010 application of Eesti Post, it is not yet possible to say how much the unreasonably burdensome costs of the universal postal service of Eesti Post were in 2010. This is an economic dispute between an undertaking and a market regulator. The Competition Authority has confirmed that it is their desire to achieve a swift and fair final solution in this procedure. At the same time, the Competition Authority cannot take an administrative decision without being sure that the methodology and the requirements of the Regulation are complied with when making its assessment. Question 3: 'What are the government's measures to prevent the Estonian Post Council from taking extreme decisions and terminating the agreement with the state? ' Under § 6 (1) PostG, the universal postal service provider is awarded by a public competition organised by the Competition Authority. As a result of the competition, Eesti Post was authorised to provide universal postal service for a period of five years in 2009. The authorisation is therefore valid until 2014. In accordance with paragraph 2 of the same section, the Competition Authority imposes a universal postal service obligation on a postal service provider authorised to provide a universal postal service at the time of the call for competition for up to five years, should a public competition fail. Paragraph 6 (4) of the Postal Act states that when determining the universal postal service provider, account shall be taken of the need to ensure the provision of universal postal services in the short and long term in a cost-effective manner, without distorting competition and for an affordable remuneration.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U123	Thank you very much. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U124	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is good that you have announced that such an application has been submitted to the Competition Authority and that there is a dispute. My question concerns this possible disagreement between the Ministry and Eesti Post. Does that have to be the case, and could it not have been resolved otherwise, somehow without the intervention of the Competition Authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U125	There is no disagreement between the Ministry and Estonian Post. In my opinion, this is otherwise quite typical, but in the conditions of Estonia it is the first time that the universal postal service provider and the market regulator are testing each other for strength. I, too, do not know at the moment what will be the final decision of the Competition Authority as a regulator to what extent unreasonable costs must be financed from the fund set up by law to finance universal postal services. This fund is a notional part of the state budget, but it is actually very dedicated. The income of the fund is formed in accordance with the Postal Act, and in this respect Estonia is not a specific state in the European Union, too, the principle is that all postal companies operating in the market pay money to the fund on each letter. These amounts compensate for the unreasonable costs of the universal postal service. There is, of course, an argument, which is an unreasonable cost and which is not an unreasonable cost. The company wants to show maximum unreasonable costs in order to obtain the highest possible payment from this UPT Compensation Fund. The role of the competition authority is to be an impartial market leader here; it must not make any decisions that could be directed by a general meeting or a ministry, but it must be a purely economic decision based on its assessment criteria. As a market participant, Eesti Post can always disagree with the decision of the Competition Authority. Well, the near future will show you what happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U126	Thank you very much. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Today's fourth question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U127	I would now like to ask for a chair of speech, Rainer Vakra, who, as the representative of the heirs, will put a question to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U128	Good manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Indeed, an inquiry has been made on the date of 12 May concerning the behaviour of the Ministry of the Environment as landowner in the country. In broad terms, we can classify this land in a number of categories: firstly, the unreformed state land; secondly, the national protected areas, be they landscape protected areas or parks. Now, in summary, the content of this question, or maintenance of protected areas. In his previous office, over and over the next six years, the Ministry of the Environment has discussed this issue again and again and again, and I have to admit that the Ministry of the Environment never showed any activity in resolving this issue. When we spoke to the local government leaders in May this year, it became clear that this was not just a matter of Tallinn, but of the over-estonian issue. The state, on the one hand, owns the land of protected areas, but does not fulfil its obligations, which are precisely about good order, the cleaning of garbage, but also the ban on ATVs and the liquidation of bonfire sites, for example. The latter can literally destructively affect protected areas. In Nõmme, for example, all seven parks have been protected. The inquiry specifically refers to the enforcement of the protection rules of the Pirita River Valley, which clearly leaves it to be desired. In fact, the purpose of the inquiry is to jointly find solutions to how these state-owned areas would still be able to function. Once a year of cleaning, let's do it! ' as part of a campaign or during other social activities, is clearly not enough. The municipalities and the state therefore need to put their backs together. But in the meantime, it has to be recognised that, at least in cooperation with the city of Tallinn, the state has been clearly passive and, rather, has taken a stand-off approach. Therefore, there are indeed seven questions for the Minister, which, once again, are very Tallinn-based and are based on the living environment of Nõmme and Pirita. At the same time, the problem is widespread throughout Estonia. For example, if one municipality wants to build a playground, swings, sandbox or why not a pool or something like that on an unreformed state land, then the state will always be present as owner and say that it is his land, there is nothing to do with it. However, if someone has poured several loads of garbage on such land, this unfortunately remains the solution of the municipality. So here are our seven questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U129	Thank you. Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment of the Speaking Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! First of all, in the introduction of the representative of the heirs, the subject was really a little wider than the questions raised in the inquiry were expected. In my answers, however, I refer to the questions raised in the inquiry, which were primarily from Tallinn's background, and as the representative of the heirs said, Pirita was particularly concerned. With regard to such wider cooperation, the representative of the heirs stated in his introduction that, in view of the state, there is a major problem when the municipality in whose territory there is one or the other protected area wants to establish a sandbox or playground there. If such a situation really exists somewhere, I am happy to look forward to concrete examples. My data does say that where the land reform has been completed and nature conservation works are carried out by RMK, cooperation with the municipalities is rather very positive. That municipalities want to invest in a protected area and that the state has deterred them from making these investments, I am hearing for the first time. If that is true, I would be happy to hear where such a situation exists in particular. But now specifically to questioning. The first question was this: "Why is the pollution of Kose's summer manor (the former boiler house owned by the Russian army) not completely eliminated to this day, and what are the consequences of the pollution in the Pirita River and the bathing beach? 'The specific date from 2009 was 13 February 2009 was the date of Decree No 12 of the Minister of the Environment, entitled 'Consequences for the elimination of pollution in former military and industrial areas', on the basis of which the Ministry of the Environment sub-office initially proposed the elimination of residual pollution in all former military and industrial areas. On the basis of this regulation, a list of the works to be carried out was drawn up, including the former Kose boiler house at Kose tee 9. Planned work was the excavation of contaminated soil and not only the excavation, but also the transport of hazardous waste in a clear way. At the time the works were carried out, it became apparent that the pollution was much more extensive than it was thought at the beginning, and the volume of contaminated soil was larger, which led to the conclusion of an additional contract during the execution of the works. But at the moment, Mati Salu, the expert supervising the implementation of this project, confirms that the contaminated soil has been removed and transported. There is still work to be done and carried out, and the building of monitoring wells is essential for this project. The final date for these works is 31 July 2011. The second question has been formulated by the heirs: 'The management plan of the landscape conservation area of Pirita river valley provides that the Environmental Board is responsible for the periodic work related to the cleaning of the Pirita river bed and the maintenance of meadows by the State Forest Management Centre. Is and when is it planned to start maintenance of riverbeds and meadows to ensure the protection objectives of the Pirita River Valley? ' As I mentioned in my introduction, the practical nature conservation works are carried out by RMK, or the State Forest Management Centre, in the state land. As for the Pirita River, this year the Pirita River will be cleaned in the section between the Iru Bridge and the Pirita Bridge. The total length of the section is 7.5 km and the cleaning must have ended in November 2011. So by November this year, you have to be done. As far as other work is concerned, as you, good heirs, probably know, this landscape protected area is such that the land reform has not been completed there, which means that 2/3 of these countries have not yet been transferred to the country cadastral. This is going to be a major obstacle to RMK, which should be the performer of these works, because it is understandable that RMK will be able to work in countries where it is entitled to do so, so what are state lands. In December last year, RMK applied for the ownership of the protected area by the state of the countries currently owned by the state. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the Tallinn City Government has not approved this request. The third question: 'Prahi cleaning is the responsibility of the manager of the protected area, and the state's executive is in this case the Harju-Järva-Rapla region of the Environmental Board. When does the manager of the protected area plan to begin carrying out his duties and to clean up the waste of the protected area and supervise the affected motor vehicles? " The representative of the heirs said in his introduction that this whole area is one where very good cooperation between the state and local governments is important. There must be cooperation not only between the state and the municipalities, but also between the state and all those with land in protected areas. I must say that the cooperation with the representatives of the city of Tallinn was good when making the management plan for the landscape conservation area of Pirita river valley. According to this plan, for example, the contracts for the disposal of waste, the regular disposal of waste, are the responsibility of Pirita and the district government of Lasnamäe. So cleaning the debris in the protected nature reserve is not the responsibility of the Environmental Board under the management plan. On the basis of a possible division of labour agreement, the district governments should reach a consensus on who is responsible for the territory. The fourth question has been worded as follows: 'According to § 28 (1) of the Nature Protection Act, the objective of the protection of landscape protected areas, including the landscape protected area of the Pirita River Valley, is to introduce and regulate the use of the site. When will the manager of the protected area start, in cooperation with the municipality, with the development of the river valley and the construction of planned recreational facilities? ' I certainly agree that cooperation is needed on this issue. At the same time, I am forced to draw attention again to the fact that the land reform in this area has not been completed. If this request by RMK, which I referred to earlier, were to be accepted and that would allow the land reform to be completed and the land concerned to remain the property of the State, then RMK could begin to do all the necessary work in order to create a very representative area. This application, however, is uncoordinated by Tallinn City Government. Let me give you some examples of how RMK has acted under these circumstances. This year, the state has allocated 2.5 million kroons to RMK for nature conservation work, and I will speak in kroons, but it is also planned to use EUR 1.15 million, or 18 million, for nature conservation work supported by the European Regional Development Fund. These works that RMK can and has planned to do this year are the largest part of the maintenance-renovation work of the communities, followed by the maintenance-renovation work of the species in terms of the number of objects. However, there is also provision for improving nature conservation infrastructure, maintaining parks, dealing with individual objects. And, of course, it is always necessary to consider the need for exceptional nature conservation works. So RMK operates well, but once again, it has the opportunity to do so only in countries that are state-owned. The fifth question has been worded as follows: 'If parks, arboretums or stands are located in the state land and are managed by the Environmental Board, why is the state not fulfilling the obligations of the owner through the Environmental Board, i.e. why are the works necessary to ensure the preservation of the appearance of the park and the composition of the species, such as mowing and shaping of the tree and shrub fronts, are not carried out? ' Again: RMK, which carries out practical nature conservation work on the state land, can do this if it is appointed as an authorised authority of the sovereign property manager. The sixth question: 'Why does the Environmental Board consider that, in relation to state land, the State Land Manager is obliged only to dispose of waste from § 128 (5) of the Waste Act if, in the opinion of the polluter, within one year of the commencement of the procedure for the release of waste into the environment, the polluter has not been identified? What is the basis of the Environmental Board's view that state lands in Tallinn do not need to be organized or maintained? ' A strong temptation is to comment a little on the tone of this question, but I will overcome that temptation. I am telling you that neither the Environmental Board nor the Ministry of the Environment are of the opinion that state land in Tallinn or anywhere else does not need to be maintained or organized. However, when it comes to regular waste management, municipal waste management, it must be organised by municipalities on the basis of the Waste Act on their administrative territory. I repeat: there must be good cooperation between the state and the local authorities in this area, so that if, for example, a large pile of garbage was discovered somewhere, it would know what to do. And it is not at all the view that, in any case, one year must have passed since the discharge of waste into the environment. At the same time, the state is, and I believe that the city of Tallinn is also of the opinion, that it is important to find out who caused the particular pollution. If this is not possible and if it is an unreformed state land, then the municipality has so far turned to the state that has organised the eradication of pollution. I'll give you a table later, just in terms of information. This table lists the countries where the residual pollution has been eliminated and the waste has been harvested. So this work is on and, unfortunately, it has to be said that there is more to this work than we would like either in Tallinn city or at state level. There are still people who do not consider the basic obligation to clean up after themselves and leave a lot of garbage and garbage behind in the wild. The seventh question: 'Why are state states being cared for selectively and do we really have to wait a year for the initiation of an offence procedure to eliminate waste on state land (for example, someone has thrown a garbage bag into state land with municipal waste)? " Surely you don't have to wait a year. The polluter-pays principle should be taken into account. It is therefore important to find out who caused the pollution. We should do the maximum we can to identify the polluter. If it is not possible to do so, then you will not have to wait a year and it has not been respected. We need to work together to eliminate the pollution.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U131	Thank you very much, Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus! You have a question. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U132	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! Mr Vakra spoke about the maintenance of protected areas, but I believe you will also move outside the capital and see these ruins, which were once herdboards, pigs etc. Who do you think, or more specifically, what kind of ministry would have to deal with this in order to make this picture more beautiful?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U133	Although this question does not directly relate to questioning, it is still an important question. Whatever pollution it is, it is visual or other pollution, it must be disposed of, and we are now discussing how best to do this, how to make it possible to re-use the scrapping residues of the same buildings. Of course, the problem in itself is that by now most of these decomposed buildings already have a owner, and often it is simply the owner's inability to resolve the situation. But it is possible that there are also owners who have simply neglected their territory. At the moment, we are looking for the most reasonable solution, in cooperation with several ministries, how it would be reasonable to reduce this type of pollution in Estonia. I agree it's gonna hurt your eye. And there are examples where these buildings not only hurt the eye, but also attract people who would not like to be seen there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U134	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U135	Thank you. Good minister! I come back to the city system and to mowing more specifically. Indeed, there are seven parks in Nõmme that have been placed under national protection. As we know, in 2007, this protection plan did not provide for the city to mow them, but it is not a question at all. I have a question from a completely different area. This concerns unreformed states, or territories that have not been affected by the property reform. The citizen actually doesn't care who owns the land, whether it's a park, a forest, or a protected area. If the area is out of order and full of garbage, it's a common concern for all of us. Who do you think is responsible for what happens when you look at the map in no-man's-land?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U136	I very much agree that it is not important for a citizen, a simple person moving in a city or a country who owns the land. He wants it to be okay, and he has every right to want it, and he has every right to have it that way. As far as protected areas are concerned, the same management plan, which I referred to several times earlier, is precisely the document in which all these issues must be put in place. The management plan for the Pirita river valley landscape protected area, which was approved at the end of last year, is valid until 2019. I think it's a pretty good management plan. And once again, I assure you that good cooperation was also made with the representatives of the local government, and in particular with the representatives of the local governments of Tallinn. Since this is also a matter of cleaning up garbage and waste heaps, I would like to make it clear that one part of the same management plan, which I quoted earlier, is precisely the organisation of the waste management and the one who should be responsible in this area. According to the management plan, the responsible executives should be the district government of Pirita and Lasnamäe. I believe that, in cooperation with national representatives, the best ways to do so will be found. Even in previous years Pirita has not had any major problems in this regard in the area of landscape conservation. There has been very good cooperation with Pirita Municipality, who, for example, has installed waste bins and has tried everything to ensure that there is not too much garbage. So I think the cooperation is quite smooth, and I am sure that the municipal authorities are also interested in regular disposal of waste from the landscape reserve. By the way, let me give you an example. If you have happened to visit similar areas in Sweden or Finland, you may know that there are often large signs placed at the gates of the protected area or along the roads leading to the protected area, which tell people that as much as you can get there, you can bring back as much as you can. Everything depends very much on people's attitudes, their willingness and their desire to keep nature as clean as it was before a person entered a landscape protected area or any other area. Once again, the responsible contractor in the waste management area is the district government of Pirita and Lasnamäe in the Pirita landscape conservation area, according to the current management plan. I am absolutely sure that they can do this very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U137	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U138	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In Haabersti, for example, there are also plots that are unreformed state land. Some are protected and some are not. As you rightly pointed out, there will be cooperation in cleaning them out of any mess that will inevitably occur there. But cooperation means doing some kind of work, negotiating, exchanging letters. It sucks how much. If this land were owned by a certain owner, whose job it is to clean up and maintain it, it would be much easier. The city has repeatedly turned to the state to obtain such meaningless small plots of land, 700-1000 m2 large, and each time the answer is that it is not possible, it is extremely necessary as a reserve country for the performance of the state's tasks. But the mission seems to be to collect debris there. Is it reasonable, then, that land will not be returned? And why aren't they?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U139	You're going a long way from the point of view. Had I known that you would be interested in how much the country has transferred to Tallinn, how much land has been municipalised, I would have taken this information with me. In general, Tallinn's applications, especially recently, have been the case that we have transferred quite a number of plots of land to the city. The last request, for example, was on the agenda of the government's previous meeting and concerned the construction of a bicycle path for the old railway dam. A colleague sitting behind you nods, he's probably very familiar with it. So there are very reasonable and well-founded requests for which the state has met the residents of Tallinn in the sense that it has delivered land of very high value free of charge. Another example is the Cultural Kilometre, for which the city of Tallinn applied for land for municipal property and, of course, the state gave the land to Tallinn free of charge. But I repeat: I fully agree that the outstanding issues of the land reform should be resolved, not only in the city of Tallinn, but everywhere where they are still unsolved. The clearer ownership issues, the easier it is often to carry out tasks in everyday life, such as organising the same waste management. But if you are more interested in this subject, we can talk further after we have answered the question. I'd be happy to give you the data on the land that has already been municipalized.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U140	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. Let's open the negotiations. Rainer Vakra has made a request. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U141	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I too long wondered whether I would endure temptation and cancel or not. Indeed, there was an important incentive why I came here: I thank you for the contribution you made at the last government meeting when it was decided to hand over the land of the Vääna railway dam from the country to the city free of charge. Finally, Nõmme can also build an asphalted roller skating road, where it is possible to engage in sports that have so far been impossible in the Nõmme fitness centre. On the other hand, on several occasions there has been talk about the parks of the Nõmme Reserve and as a former resident of Nõmme, you know that Nõmme Parks have all been protected. I assure you that in the last six years, the country has not been there to help with mowing, cutting trees or cleaning. We have asked for this and we have written about it to your predecessors, and now I very much hope that cooperation will improve as a result of today's inquiry. I know that the Nõmme district has the same issue on the agenda right now. At the same time, I also agree that a particularly important issue to be resolved is that of unreformed state countries, i.e. no-man's-land. Currently, at least in Tallinn, the districts do the necessary work, whether in the framework of good times or with their own forces. It would be unreasonable to say to the inhabitants of Nõmme, Pirita or Haaberst that we are not doing any work because it is physically located in our part of the city, but according to the map legally in the country. This is not a sensible solution and a sensible answer to any person who notices any garbage. One good example is indeed your example of Sweden: there will be signs to bring along as much as you can later. Unfortunately, for example, there are still places in the Pääsküla bog where all kinds of things are carried by carloads. I doubt these people would read such labels, even though they would apply to them. And indeed, if the car is full of garbage and they can take it there, then, given all the physics and mathematics rules, they should be able to get that stuff out of there. But, of course, they do not. The problem, therefore, of unreformed states and the completion of their municipalisation, certainly needs to be resolved. Whether it is the same or the other way around, it must be as Vassiliev said that these small plots would be given to the city, or so, they would be specifically managed by the state, or RMK. That would certainly be one solution. However, as far as the whole issue is concerned, once again, the keywords would indeed be cooperation here and, on the other hand, more attention being paid at national level to what is stated in the Code of Protection and, in particular, in the Action Plans. I am pleased that you have made Pirita River Valley theories very clear to yourself and to your officials. However, I believe that, as far as the seven parks of Nõmme, for example, maybe after 2007 when a decision was made on them, the file is still on the shelf of an official and maybe it has never been opened. This is not the way we know who has to ensure good order in these parks, because it has indeed been done for years, even decades, by the district government since 1993. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U142	Thank you very much. Would the waitress like to make a final statement? No, I don't. That concludes this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U143	Let's go to the next question. First of all, as the representative of the heirs, I would like to ask Valeri Korb, who will present an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U144	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of the Environment! Eight members of the Riigikogu have signed the inquiry. We believe that the Estonian waste management is a large-scale business, in which millions of euros move. The Estonian waste management is largely divided into three companies: AS Ragn-Sells, AS Veolia Environmental Services and Adelan Prügiveod OÜ. The only company created on Estonian capital is Adelan Prügiveod OÜ, which provides waste collection and transportation services in Harjumaa, Tartu and Narva to the population and manufacturing, commercial and construction companies. AS Veolia Environmental Services belongs to the worldwide Veolia Group, Ragn-Sells' headquarters are located near Stockholm. Thus, Estonian garbage transport is largely under the control of foreign companies. This is not only a downside, but it is also accompanied by specific competence in the field and environmental protection principles. The interests of large groups are significantly wider and are not limited to the interests of Estonia alone. Adelan Landfill and Ragn-Sells have submitted an application for authorisation for long-term interim storage of waste. Although in the short term interim storage gives Ragn-Sells the opportunity to save landfill fees, the tactical step taken by the company is far more important than cost savings to ensure a critical mass in case of waste when the waste fuel plant they build becomes operational. The same plan is for Adelan, who wants to collect garbage for a mass incineration plant built by Irru. With regard to everything I have talked about, we have five questions for the Minister for the Environment, which we would like to have an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U145	Thank you very much. Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment of the Speaking Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U146	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Inquiries! I answer questions by question. The first question: 'The Ice Act required Estonia to be transferred to waste shipments from 1 January 2005. Last year, not all municipalities had joined the organised waste shipment. What's the status today? " Today's situation is that in the first quarter of this year, 13 municipalities with this obligation had not moved to the municipal waste shipment. The 13 municipalities where this obligation was not fulfilled are Kohtla-Järve city, Narva municipality, Tabivere municipality, Sõmerpalu municipality, Rakvere city, Paikuse municipality, Sindi city, Tori municipality, Tahkuranna municipality, Aaslava municipality, Luunja municipality, Mäksa municipality and Ülenurme municipality. These are the data for the first quarter of this year. The second question: 'The aim is to use a technology similar to that used in the manufacture of hay bales. The leader of the Järva-Harju-Rapla region of the State Environmental Board, Allan Piik, has publicly questioned whether the durability of the film surrounding the waste is sufficient from an environmental safety point of view. At the same time, it has been used successfully in other European countries. How safe is this temporary landfill of waste for the environment assessed by the Ministry of the Environment? ' We believe that, for each of the activities envisaged, the environmental impact of the activities must be assessed and that a specific authorisation authority is competent to take a decision on which action it is necessary to initiate an environmental impact assessment. One of its objectives is to prevent or minimise damage to the environment. One reason is indeed the same question of the durability of the film to which the heirs refer in their question. As municipal waste, unlike hay bales, contains or may contain sharp parts, there is a pretty high probability that the surrounding film will break. And once this film is broken, it clearly promotes the formation of various chemical processes in pressed municipal waste. If the film is broken, it is also quite likely that precipitation occurs in municipal waste, which in turn produces leachate water. If these same filmed balls are stored in several layers, it is not possible to easily identify whether the lower ball film is broken, and if storage takes place, for example, on a rubble-coated site, it is unprotected groundwater and, of course, it is also a threat to the environment. Not to mention that when municipal waste is stored in this way, they are surrounded by a film and the film breaks down, there is an unpleasant smell that attracts both birds and all sorts of unpleasant rodents, and this is obviously not good for the environment. You do refer to other European countries in your questions, where this method has allegedly been used successfully. I must say that, as we know, this pressing and filming technology is used for storing and transporting waste fuel and not for intermediate storage of mixed municipal waste. The third question: 'The Head of the Waste Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Peeter Eek, has said that in the coming years, if all waste operators and energy companies make their plans to produce electricity, heat or waste fuel from waste, Estonia will be lacking in waste to carry out all business plans. What could this mean for the Estonian environment? Can large companies transport waste suitable for their waste incineration plants from abroad to Estonia? ' First of all, if you start with the last question, we have not received such information that someone wants to start bringing mixed municipal waste to Estonia. It was true that last year, Valga wanted to start storing mixed municipal waste in Latvia, but the idea was interrupted because Latvia did not agree with this plan at all. Such transport and storage from one country to another shall be possible only if the relevant competent authorities of both countries have given their consent. And as I said, it's not known at the moment that anyone has such a plan. The other part of the question. Maybe some statistics. I'm starting in 2007. In 2007, according to the waste reports submitted to the Environmental Information Centre, there have been 389792 tonnes of mixed municipal waste in Estonia and 307263 tonnes of it. A year later, in 2008, somewhat less waste was generated, 354905 tonnes, and 323043 tonnes were deposited. In 2009, 301739 tonnes were generated and 289978 tonnes were deposited. Now, if you compare this data with the capacity of all known treatment facilities established or built by all known companies, for example, the Iru waste incineration plant built by Eesti Energia allows to handle 220000 tonnes, Tallinn Waste Recovery Centre AS has built a waste fuel production line with a capacity of 120000 tonnes per year and Ragn-Sells AS a waste fuel plant with 120000 tonnes per year, then the sum of these figures comes out quite clearly that the capacity of the treatment facilities to be built exceeds the quantity of mixed municipal waste produced. What does that mean for the Estonian environment? After all, it is only good for the environment, the less waste is deposited. In the waste hierarchy we follow, waste disposal is at the lowest level. The more waste can be avoided and the more recovered, the better. Question 4: 'In the landfill economy, Veolia is a beneficiary of the waste business in the past. Is the opposition of officials to the ideas of the trashing of Veolia's competitors again an example of Veolia's favor? Does the Ministry of the Environment have any information on Veolia's intention to establish a waste incineration plant? ' I'll start with the last question. The Ministry of the Environment has no information that Veolia Environmental Services AS intends to establish a waste incineration plant. But I have to say that from your second question, I did not understand to some extent what you are referring to. Who, then, do you say is the one who has somehow promoted the activities of the waste company Veolia, and which authority do you refer to the opposition to this idea of intermediate storage? Tallinn City Government? True, the City Government of Tallinn has addressed the Ministry of the Environment at the end of last November and has specifically indicated that there are no conditions for long-term interim storage of waste in the Tallinn region, etc. I see this letter raised questions for you. I'd be happy to pass on this letter to you. This letter has been signed by Rainer Vakra's penguin room Deniss Borodich. I'd be happy to pass it on to you. So if you find that the City Government of Tallinn has drawn attention to such things in vain and opposed the idea of interim storage of waste, I believe you will receive a reply from the City Government of Tallinn. The fifth question: 'The law on waste today encourages a schedule-based and not waste-based waste transport, which is significantly more sustainable from an environmental point of view. When does the Ministry of the Environment plan to make changes to resolve this situation? 'The Waste Act does indeed provide for the obligation that regular shipments of municipal waste from a densely populated area take place once every four weeks and from a distributed area at least once every 12 weeks. The reason why it was decided to impose such conditions was, in particular, due to the desire to avoid the risk that waste could otherwise pose to health and the environment. With regard to the previous question, we had a long discussion about why there would be a situation in the first place, why people would still take garbage into the woods, why they would not use waste management, why they would not collect this garbage, as foreseen. If we now had a regime that each waste holder himself would decide when, what and how much he would hand over from his garbage to the waste manager, I think this situation would be even worse. For starters, everyone on my behalf, I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U147	Thanks to the waitress! Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U148	Thank you. Good minister! You spoke about the hierarchy of waste management, where landfill is indeed at the very last stage. By combining the results of all kinds of projects carried out by means of investments, be it waste incineration or recycling, you can really think that there will be no waste in the future if you look at the formation of Estonian waste. What is sincerely delighted about, we cannot be sad about it or hurt our heart. Not to mention it would be really bad if somebody started bringing us more garbage. At the same time, however, we are once again supporting the construction of a landfill in South-East Estonia and we are allocating a total of 3.2 million euros, or 50 million kroons of aid. How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U149	Thank you. I think that is why we really have no reason to be sad about the decline in garbage from year to year. It is true that the reduction in waste has been particularly marked in the most difficult years of the recession, as confirmed by the above statistics. Understandably, consumption also decreased significantly in these years, and there is certainly some connection here. But the goal is still to keep this level lower and not to worry too much that maybe there is some way to produce more garbage for companies that have made investments. That's not what we're really worried about. I believe that all companies have made investments knowing the state of our economy. As regards the construction of a landfill site in south-eastern Estonia, this is one project that has been in the process for a very long time. To this end, the KIC provides for a separate measure from the European Union's resources, and this has been a strong desire of the South-East Estonian municipalities. They too want to store their garbage as close as possible to where the garbage comes from. So I think it is in the interests of the residents of South-East Estonia, who should also be guaranteed that they will receive their garbage service at the most affordable price possible. This must be one of the most important principles to be taken into account in this matter and which probably have been followed by the municipalities that have applied for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U150	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U151	Thank you. Madam Secretary! In your report you said that 13 municipalities have not moved to an organised waste shipment. How do you comment on this situation and what will you do to make them join this system? Unfortunately, I think these people are paying a higher fee for trash.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U152	Thank you. This is a problem and tomorrow, for example, the Ministry of the Environment will have a meeting with representatives of the municipality again. Of course, we have also asked for their help, so that the local government characters themselves, where this process has been dragged over for a very long time and where it is a problem, I do not want to say that they are under pressure, but to convince them that it has to be done. And as I said in reply to the previous question, it is precisely the price of the service that is certainly very important for the inhabitants of these municipalities, which is one reason why it is necessary to move forward with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U153	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U154	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I would like to clarify whether there is now a possibility that some small settlements in a non-large city, because the interests are different, a person takes his own garbage to a dump and receives a receipt for it. He's not gonna throw those bags under the woods because it's his landscape, and practically he's gonna take care of it. Why do I ask? Because I was in the Blackwater area recently, and people are really worried that there's no way we can handle a garbage company. They make demands on people, people are not favorable, there is a conflict and there is no way to get rid of the garbage.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U155	Thank you. The current Waste Act clearly states that, in the case of dense settlements, the obligation is to order transport once every four weeks and once every 12 weeks. The opportunity you're talking about, the law doesn't provide for it. I agree that, ideally, if everyone were to be environmentally aware and take a very responsible approach to the collection of waste and waste, it would certainly be a good system. Ideally, we would not have the situation that we talked about in the context of the previous inquiry and where, unfortunately, not all people consider it necessary or reasonable to take the garbage to the place where the garbage is located.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U156	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U157	Thank you. Madam Minister! I don't remember what he said this about, but this year President Ilves has spoken about the need to change the public procurement system, it is too difficult, complicated and far from ideal. At the same time, waste management is also a process that is quite complex. And when these two things come together with a system of waste management and public procurement, the result is sometimes that public procurement can be formally carried out, but after that the same situation lasts for months and years because of the complaint process of one or the other party. I mean, there will be no new, lower prices, no real competition, etc. My question is: have you considered that public procurement for waste management could be carried out differently, creating a simpler and more understandable set of rules for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U158	Thank you. Any system can always be improved. However, as far as public procurement is concerned, I think that the municipalities where this system operates and where it has been possible to carry out procurement without being dragged over by a debate over the years are a good example of not being able to blame the existing public procurement system. I think that the more transparent, the more precise and the later the debate is one of the announced public procurements, the less there are disputes. So transparency and punctuality will help to ensure that there are not very many procurement disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U159	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! I hope you don't mind if I ask a purely humanitarian question, which is still the subject. Namely, I have once witnessed a Green discussion about a waste incineration plant. One of their hypotheses was that the incineration plant sounds hostile and aggressive in some way and that it would be more environmentally friendly for a waste-hunting plant. The discussion quickly subsided, but I liked the term proposed. What might be thought of in the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U161	Thank you. If anyone feels that there is a need to change the terms, that they are more acceptable to people or that they are greener, then that is fine by me. It's something you can think about.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U162	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U163	Madam Minister! I will continue with the issue of waste management. We know that on the night of Saturday, a fire broke out in the Uikala landfill, and it took almost 17 to 18 hours to erase it. With my own eyes, I saw a thick smoke, and I understand it wasn't easy for the rescuers. Thanks to them! My question, Minister, is this: is there more information that took place there and how much damage has been done to nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U164	Thank you. My thanks to all those who worked hard to erase it! The situation was really ugly there. We're going to go a long way from this question again. At the moment, I don't have any specific information on the causes. I know that complex permit checks were carried out at the Uikala dump in May this year and there were no violations. What, in particular, may have caused this very ugly fire there, has not yet been reported to me, but I think it is important in any case to find out the reasons. Since this event is so recent, I do not have any sums of damage that I could already say specifically. But it was a very ugly fire.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U165	No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Thank you so much for Keit Pentus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U166	We'll move on to the next subject. First of all, as the representative of the questioners, I would like to introduce the speech chair Aadu Must to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, 19 The members of the Centre Party have signed an inquiry into the salaries of teachers, police officers, border guards and rescue workers. The main point of this inquiry is that in many places, including budget forecasts, public officials' salaries have been announced not to rise. At the same time, it is pointed out that, for example, the consumer price index has increased by about 5.2% since the same period last year and real wages have fallen in Estonia for the ninth quarter in a row. If the Minister so wishes, I can recite these questions as well, but perhaps it is better to hear them in the course of their answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U168	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, please to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Then I'll start answering again. I can see why you've picked up these jobs on the raise. They are large and have always been popular among politicians, but the rules apply to society as a whole. First of all, as far as this strategy is concerned, you obviously have not read it correctly. We didn't say wages wouldn't go up. The strategy says that the state's operating costs are frozen, and all ministers know that wages can rise by increasing efficiency. What are these measures? As Minister of Finance myself, I am responsible for a subject such as centralisation of support services. In the coming years, we will centralise financial staff and wage accounting in all areas of government and introduce e-invoicing. For example, by 2013, we want to save 40% of the cost of performing the accounting function. The centralisation of real estate management will also lead to significant operational costs savings. In any case, the money must be released through restructuring. The second question: how should teachers, police, border guards and rescue workers cope? Well, it's not like they're handling it according to society's wealth. This even applies to the most popular specialties you've picked out here. I guess we had to learn from the time of the recession and the crisis, or really from the time of the boom and the crisis, that raising wages overpower ends very badly and pulling back is much more painful than the slower increase in wages, and we have built our budgetary strategy accordingly. No area can grow infinitely, we are a shrinking nation, and at the same time a country cannot expand without borders. A reduction in the number of institutions is also an option for such a reform. For example, the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Board managed to reduce the number of officials providing support services by more than 200. It must be said that it is not inflation that dictates wages. Much still depends on the causes of inflation. In this case, they are still clearly in international prices on foreign markets and we must adapt to these prices. It is not just that we are running along with wages, because in this case we are adding domestic pressure to the pressure of international inflation, and in that case the price increase would already be more dangerous. This would also hit our competitiveness and, of course, would have a social impact on the poorer. You will then ask: 'The North Police Association made a statement which deplored that the Baltic States were not doing anything about increasing crime, which is also affecting the Nordic countries by virtue of the Schengen Agreement. Is it not a clear signal from outside that Estonia must contribute more money to law enforcement and raise the salaries of police officers? ' No, it's not a clear signal, it's an extremely confusing signal. In this statement, errors are inside, and they have not had to take back a little after these claims. Estonia cannot complain about increasing crime; rather, it has shrunk in this century. As far as more or less of this contribution is concerned, Estonia contributes 2.3% of GDP to public order and security, which is one of the highest indicators in the European Union and the OECD as a whole. It is clear that it simply does not make sense to take first place in the costs of all areas. Effectiveness in systems must be sought. You will then ask: 'Estonian Educational Workers' Association has also raised the problem that, as a result of the average age of teachers, they will not continue in schools in the coming years. How does the government coalition intend to increase the value of teachers in society? ' It has to be said that the fate of an ageing society is that people at work are getting older, but in fact, the number of students has also decreased. It cannot be that the number of teachers is increasing and the number of students is decreasing at the same time. This problem has long been recognised that the number of teachers is also decreasing. Whether it has to be so painful that, first of all, only old people really stay is, of course, a question. But we'll try to answer that question. I would point out, however, that education is also an area in which we are very big spenders in proportion to GDP. We are fourth in the European Union, if I am not mistaken, as of 2008. And I suspect that at the time of the depression, that percentage of GDP might even have risen, I mean, compared to others. The fact that he rose is a fact. Which, again, suggests that the problem is not the proportion of money to education, but the efficiency of using it. However, all of you are welcome to propose solutions to make the school network or the higher education system more efficient, so that there can also be more pay. There are specific programmes to value the work of teachers. After all, we have implemented a teacher start-up support system for young teachers, which should bring young people to school. This amount amounts to EUR 12782. That's a lot of money, and it's supposedly brought 150 new teachers to the school. It may be skeptical about these calculations, but the money didn't take the teachers. There is also the 'Youth in School' programme, which must increase the attractiveness of teaching. Question 5: 'Has the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Education and Science asked you to discuss the possibility of raising the salaries of teachers, rescuers, border guards and police officers in the next four years? Why is there no such important thing in the fixed coalition agreement and in the agenda of the Government of the Republic? ' We have our own procedures to deal with the budget, and I must congratulate my fellow Members that they have not come simply, with their hands long, but follow this order. They know that wage increases come from austerity and reforms. In the budgetary negotiations, of course, they will make their additional requests, but I would not very much expect them to appear in such a form that there is a need to raise wages. Indeed, the government coalition does not define it as an end in itself, so that the salaries of public earners should rise. We have set ourselves the goal of an increase in general well-being. Overall welfare growth is, of course, also an improvement in the quality of public service and one indicator is the salaries of public employees. But to simply set the goal of raising wages Rather, it has been learned that wage increases must not be too rapid. It must be in line with productivity, it must not jeopardise future salaries, pensions and everything relevant to the functioning of the state. So these ministers will tell the Minister of Finance all their problems during the budget negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U170	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for a constructive and constructive response. More or less anything you might agree with, but there's one thing you're gonna want to argue about. It is said among the people that the decline in crime is not due to the fact that it has not actually been enough, but to the fact that there is an interesting prank going around: 'There is little life of crime, because there is little paper. If you catch too many of them, I'm sure you'll get your ass kicked. ' But that's what it is. You said so nicely at the beginning of your answer that you do not understand why the question was specifically devoted to teachers, rescuers, policemen. They were dedicated because they are agencies where the number of employees can probably no longer be reduced, because then the future of the country is already suffering. But this intellectual conversation also motivates me to ask a question. Are there any areas where the situation is worse that should have been asked about, perhaps you should tell us in advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U172	Thank you. In the case of teachers, I'm arguing against it. One serious government cannot have the goal of maintaining the number of teachers. After all, the number of children is falling and the number of teachers cannot increase or remain the same. In fact, we have a problem with how to focus education spending better, reform the school network, etc. Nor can it be assumed that the exact number of teachers will remain exactly the same. But the goal of reducing their number, of course, is not an objective that is being worked for, but is simply one of life's inevitable that, if there are few children, society will at least contribute a little less to this generation for the recipients. It simply turns out that if we can better reform the school network, there will be fewer teaching places and the need for them will be reduced. But the saviors, the police here, it's pretty clear that it's our own idea of how big these structures have to be, and that's what we keep comparing with the possibilities and comparing it with the wages we can pay people. It cannot be said that the salaries of police and rescue workers are low, but we would certainly like to pay them more. Just as Mart Laar would like to pay higher salaries in the field of defence. And I have to admit, you have to get rid of some people. Such a reserve exists in all areas, including internal security. We've got rescue commandos tightened up here and so on, and at some point, you have to admit that the rescue capability is just in less places. This has been the case over time and, in summary, the salaries of rescue officers have risen quite effectively over the years. Where's the worst paychecks? I think that there are certainly much worse wages in the social field, and the work that is being done there should still be more thought. For some reason, however, during the time that I have been here, there have been some favorite areas, apparently they are simply more monolithic agencies that can be approached more coherently. At the same time, they also employ a large number of people, and significant shifts cost a great deal. There is a bigger budgetary problem than in any other area.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U173	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U174	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You can't do it today without touching the tax exemption for the land you live in. In theory, about 300 million kroons will leave the state budget. It could be argued that this 300 million kroon could go to raise the salaries of these workers, or am I thinking a little wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U175	Theoretically, this money can be placed anywhere, but I don't think it'll be taken from any scenario right now. This money is still drawn evenly from all sides, and it's not like it's the other way around, it's the people's hands again, maybe even some teacher or rescue officer. I have heard very touching stories from the advocates of these drafts about a poor teacher living in Nõmme who lives on a large plot and has to pay land tax for a whole month's salary. I don't think this situation is as dramatic as a teacher can afford to live in a green, elite area. But this is just an example of how I think these salaries and the land tax are connected. Directly at the expense of wage costs, this money obviously comes at a very minimal rate, but it will certainly be a huge saving for some earners.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U176	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U177	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! You said that money comes from austerity and reforms. But with the reforms, the money goes. I would like to report to you if you do not know that, for example, the faculty, and not just them, thinks that instead of lowering their income tax rate, their salaries could be increased. But it's a "reply" thing. In fact, the government is constantly signaling as if there are too many teachers and they should somehow be laid off. Does this mean that there have also been government-level reforms, how many teachers should be sent to a job exchange or retirement, and how big is the financial gain for those who remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U178	Thank you. It is still a question for the Minister of Education. The aim is not to reduce the number of teachers, but rather to reduce the school network. I suggest that we ask these questions very specifically to the Minister for Education, who has dared to say more than any of his predecessors and admit that, if the students are reduced, it is primarily the decisions of the local governments that dictate here. This will show how much resources can be diverted. I think he's pretty brave in this area to answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U179	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U180	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm talking about teachers too. Of course, at the moment, there is a situation of redistributing so-called teachers' resources, but I would like to remind you that it is not just three or three plus two years between university walls that are being prepared for a real teacher. The teacher will be given in about seven to ten years. You also know very well that the faculty is layered, comes from generation to generation and goes from generation to generation. At present, the teacher's professorship is not popular, soon it will become unpopular and I fear that then there will really be a problem in society. How do you assess this situation with a long-term forecast, not according to the current economic situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U181	Thank you. I mean, it's not like teaching's gonna go away, there's gonna be people who're gonna get into this job. But these are the kind of sub-specific questions where my assessment is not something very authoritative. I wouldn't try to stop them. Ask the Minister of Education how he feels about this. These teachers will remain, and there is no fear, that there will be little job offers for teachers. This is one of the charms of the teaching profession that certain stability is guaranteed, and that is also one of the reasons why there are always those who want to do so. If, over time, we have discussed this issue in the government, we are actually amazed at how stable the faculty is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U182	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U183	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, am a lifelong scumbag, studied at Nõmme High School, and I have to say that by memory all teachers of my time lived in a luxury district in Nõmme, on the streets of Forest, Park, Kase, etc. I don't remember them being poor either, but the regime was second and the teacher was respected. Hence my question: why in the days of the Republic of Estonia have we only talked for 20 years and said every year that the salaries of teachers, kindergarten educators and police officers are low and there is no way to raise them? How can a high salary be paid to chancellors, ministers, but not to teachers? Maybe you could philosophize a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U184	Your question is highly multi-pronged. I don't share a bit of the opinion in your press that it was better in Soviet times. I know that Nõmme was often moved by people who, for some reason, were disdained, couldn't get an apartment from the state, and by some miracle were able to get a place to live. I don't think it would have been cheap for them, and I don't think it would always have been very straight along the way. I guess you know what happened in Russian times better than I do. But there were other branches on the question, I don't remember everyone, so what can I tell you? Why doesn't the teachers have enough money? You see, teachers' salaries, let's say, teachers' salaries have increased faster in recent years than in other areas. For example, rescue workers can also be included. I recently looked at a table that compared the wage dynamics of the power structures. In the saddest situation these last three years, by the way, have been the Defence Forces. There is a clear downward trend, and at the same time, the trend for staff has been maintained upwards, whether it be the number of conscripts or something else. In general, however, the expansion of structures, which is a major exception for the public sector, is constantly being addressed. But it is no wonder that the result that is directly linked to it, the salaries of these people, has fallen compared to the average wage. Perfectly legitimate. You can't say that about cops. There are some fluctuations, but overall, the ratio to average wages has been relatively stable. Once again: Estonia's average salary cannot be considered to be wealthy in any way, but if you look at those leaving the police or Rescue Board, their average wage has been above the Estonian average and over 40% of the policemen have gone on special pension. Rather, you might ask why we send viable people to such retirements than they could contribute to society. To do it the other way around, it would be better to pay more basic salaries, and the money for being away from work would lead to the same foundations or closer to what is in other occupations. But in the government, these decisions aren't easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U185	Thank you. In general, the processes of society are interacting, except that such demographic behaviour is undoubtedly due to many factors, and the school network is not what would cause people to have a considerable number of children. With a poor quality and fragmented school network, we can achieve the most that children are not well prepared for life or the labour market. The issue of the quality of education. It is well known that every municipality would like to show off their upper secondary school, but it does not make sense if we want quality education and that children are ready to go to college. This has been strongly acknowledged by all education ministers that cooperation between municipalities is a prerequisite for high-quality upper secondary school. If several upper secondary schools fit exactly in the county, there are disputes, but self-governings should not be armed in the field of education either. I think it's acknowledged by all reasonable people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U186	Thank you. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, in the case of enquiries, each questioner is able to ask one question. So that's why Mr. Oak can't ask. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The seventh inquiry has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U187	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U188	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! We had a long discussion with the Minister of the Interior before going back to their rescue teams. The Minister of the Interior is talking very strongly about supporting volunteers. For example, there are currently 48 volunteers in the Western region. As Minister of Finance, do you think that the Rescue Board has the resources to involve ever-increasing voluntary assistance and to implement the state's commitments through agreements with civil society organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U189	Thank you. I actually like this philosophy that there are a lot of volunteers on the general watch instead of just keeping low-burdened professionals at work. If we really want to talk about wage increases, we need to come up with solutions like this. But this is now again a question of the budget of the Minister for the Interior, which I am not prepared to describe in such detail. What exactly the Rescue Board is contributing to these institutions or volunteers will certainly be well matched by Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U190	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U191	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In a few months here in the Riigikogu, I have had a personal opinion that you are the most interesting conversational partner in our government. That is why I am asking you what has not been asked of another minister. Today it sounded like we should pull together the school network because there are fewer and fewer children. Indeed, in 2010, there were 128000 children in our schools. The last time it was in 1948, there have been up to 300,000 more in all the remaining years. Here's the question. We have this policy because there are few children. But maybe we have few children because we have such a policy? Maybe that makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U192	We're going to the next thing. I would like to ask you, as the representative of the heirs, for the speech chair of Ester Tuiksoo, who will present an inquiry to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U193	Madam President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on behalf of eight members of the Central Party Group, an inquiry was handed over on 10 May to Mr Jürgen Ligi on the restriction of special fuel tax incentives. On 5 May, the Government approved an amendment to the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, which limits tax incentives for specially labelled fuels. The Government is planning to amend the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel in two stages. First, the use of specially labelled liquid fuel for stationary engines and mining, forestry and construction works will cease. The amendment must enter into force on 1 January 2012. The second phase of the conversion provides for support schemes or direct payments to be applied instead of the use of preferential fuel where possible for the remaining beneficiary areas (rail transport of passengers and goods, shipping, heat and electricity production, as well as agriculture). Proposals for such an amendment are scheduled to be tabled in 2011. The programme of the Government Union provides for a reform of the system of special-marked fuel tax differentiation by providing direct support in certain areas. This issue has been hot for the last few weeks and we have already had some talk with the Minister on this issue. The heirs have asked six questions, to which we expect interesting answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U194	Thank you very much. And I ask you to answer the question of the speech chair, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm gonna start answering again. The first question: 'What is the administrative savings of the bill? ' Here I do not give you an exact answer, because administration also requires compensation mechanisms. This is certainly not the main argument in favour of this draft, this reform. It is clear that it is very difficult for the Tax and Customs Board to control specially labelled fuel. After all, he sets priorities as to how much he catches and measures these vehicles. The efficiency of one measurement is undoubtedly low in financial terms. It's catchin' the wind in the field, it gets the bat life, but you can always be sure that the difference that some fuel goes into a tank is never perfect. So when the support schemes come, we're going to compare the administration costs and the price and see if this is an area that you have to talk about so hard, at least under number 1. It will be easier for the Tax and Customs Board, there is no doubt about it, and it is likely that the main victory will be that they will be able to focus on more extensive tax fraud than individual tankloads. The second question: 'How much do you think that using the specially labelled fuel concession will reduce the competitiveness of Estonian farmers? " No doubt it will not reduce. Why would he reduce when a stupid form of support is replaced by a smarter one? Depending on the number of fuel burnings, no one should be supported and competitiveness will only increase if farmers start thinking about more fuel-efficient solutions. Of course, it does not always make sense to make a new investment immediately, but as soon as this investment comes, it is worth getting a more sustainable tractor, for example, rather than what seems more sustainable for cheap fuel. Then you ask: "What purpose does the government intend to use the additional revenues from the limitation of specially labelled fuel? " We have a state budget where no incoming crown has a label on it. I think that this question cannot be answered very adequately; the question itself is not the best one. Six or more billion of expenses, all, except the Health Insurance Fund, could be suitable for this, for example, for the unemployment fund. Question 4: 'In this case, there is information on the fact that the draft will eliminate specially labelled fuel. However, there is no overview of compensatory support mechanisms. ' The answer to how the compensation is going to happen, we will give you in the fall. As has already been said here at the reading of the draft, the tax change must be announced in advance. The tax change, which is compensated, does not need to be notified in advance so early, but the compensation mechanism requires a strong examination. We just needed more time. The fifth question is whether agricultural payments are in any way necessary. 'Who do you think are the farmers that fall under the need-based definition? " It's such a violent question. We have never used the word 'necessary' in the case of agricultural subsidies; it is still the subject of social benefits and, more generally, tax incentives. After all, agricultural aid is simply different forms. It is considered that agriculture is an area that needs support. The reasons here are, above all, historical. Food security was once discussed, and it will probably be even stronger in the future. But I think that such reasons for supporting agriculture, which is the result of international competition, will be reduced. Question 6: 'Is this bill not once again a typical draft of the government coalition, where first they take away and allow compensation and later they have been taken away, but no one remembers anything about compensation? ' I don't know what precedents you're referring to. I think all our forgetfulness will remind us. This government coalition has not, as far as I know, failed to fulfil any of its promises. Some have not yet been completed, because we have only just begun. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U196	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U197	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, In fact, you didn't answer almost any questions. Well, I guess that's the answers. I still have a lot of questions to ask, but there's only one question to ask, and I'll ask it out loud. Since our neighbours, Latvian farmers, are able to use specially labelled fuel at zero excise, will you be so kind as to be willing to pay our farmers a zero excise fee under this new support scheme?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U198	So how do I pay zero excise now? I'm not ready for that. It's a very complicated scheme that you proposed. However, I do not agree at all with the assessment that I have not answered the questions. The questions have been put in relatively many words, overlap and have been answered both at the reading of the draft and today. You actually knew my basic opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U199	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U200	Thank you. I wanted to remind you, Minister, that it is forgotten. I'll start from a distance. The Republic of Estonia even promised the people to make up for Gorbachev's bonds, which has not yet been done. But when we're talking about prices, you just said buy yourself a cheaper tractor. It has been said several times from this remote unit that you should use less electricity. When the people started to consume less, they put fixed charges on the power lines, Elering was created. This is exactly what has happened to many other things. And today we hear here about the answers to the question how Eesti Post has forgotten that it has sold all the post offices and is now asking the state if it can get rid of the universal postal service. Why does it happen that they say yes, make it cheaper, but then the state still wants to get all that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U201	Mr Lenk, if I were to sum up this whole story in any way, our views on the Soviet regime are very different. I don't cry for Gorbachev's time or nostalgics on this subject and I don't know anything about Gorbachev's promises or promises in these areas. I cannot comment on what you say about the Estonian Post here or on a number of other things. Your questions aren't going to make any sense. If you didn't put all your stress into one question, I could answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U202	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U203	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Upon the entry into force of this bill, Estonian Railway will lose around 6 million euros. Do you think that Estonian Railway can do well without this money, or where does it earn that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U204	Thank you. I am not ready to answer what happens to the Estonian Railway at the moment. I thought we were talking about a compensation system, but maybe you've been doing it a little bit fresher. I'm sorry, I'm going to review what areas are covered by the compensatory measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U205	No further questions have been registered. Thank you, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We have now dealt with all the enquiries we have made today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U206	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! After the hammer hit, please register for a free microphone speaker! Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U207	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have today the last free microphone of this political season. Remembering the hero of a great movie saying that you better remember what you say last, I'm taking a chance to say a few words on a very, very important subject. Over the years, I am used to the fact that every tall guest who comes to Ida-Virumaa and specifically to Narva will sooner or later talk about the need to bring Narva back to Estonia and the need to do the same with all of Ida-Virumaa, as if it were politically or geographically anywhere outside Estonia. I can understand people who really don't understand why they, so smart and beautiful, don't sit very much for the locals. That's impossible to explain to them, because they're just not able to understand it. But it sounds all the time, once the Russian media are responsible for this alienation, once again some local authorities are involved negatively. But that's it. I just want to remind you of this recurring slogan that has been practiced this year by politicians from both the IRL and the Reform Party: we will bring back Ida-Viru County. Today I came to the remote to show you one way that their wishes could come true. I would like to remind you that the authorities of Narva, the city government and the council, have approached the Government of the Republic of Estonia with a proposal that in the event of the decision to move the National Defence Academy out of Tallinn in August and to consider where it will be transferred, it should be remembered that Narva has proposed to place the National Defence Academy with us. There's every way to do that. It was said once here that if there is land in some places, there is no communications, there is no land. We have both this and the other, and I want this message to be remembered for the summer. We very much hope that once the government will take a step towards Ida-Viru in concrete terms, not in words, and will decide to bring the Estonian Academy of Defence, when it comes out of Tallinn, to Ida-Virumaa, specifically Narva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U208	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair, Heimar Leng!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U209	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear people of Estonia! Today it is 20 years since the property reform started in Estonia. In this very hall, the first version of the law on the basis of the property reform was adopted. On this day, the Union of Estonian Tenants made a thorough statement today, which was sent to the President of the Republic, Prime Minister and ministers as well as to the political groups of the Riigikogu. The tenants explain how they feel about ownership reform and why they protest against it. I refer some places to recall this unjust reform in Estonia. The statement states that the national-radical political forces began to restore legal continuity from the so-called'restitutional basis', without taking into account the warnings given by scientists at the time that this is the road to a dead end. The restoration would have been a restoration of the former legal order, but we did not restore the former legal order or the 1938 laws, but started to take away the treasures of the 1990s from one and give them to another. The purpose of the Property Reform Foundation Act (ORAS is its abbreviated name) is stated in subsection 2 (2) of the Act, which, according to my memory, has been repeated hundreds of times in this Chamber: 'Return of property to former owners or their successors in title in the course of the ownership reform must not harm the interests protected by the law of others or cause new injustice. " Unfortunately, this injustice has arisen. A hundred thousand people have lost their former home in Estonia, but no one has paid them a penny for it, except the city of Tallinn, who started building municipal apartments and tenants. The rest, the vast majority of the tenants, are left to fate. And as it is written here, the tenants' union is particularly disturbed by the fact that, in the course of the ownership reform, no one has recovered the property of 1940, no land, no forest, no house, but officials have given ownership to today's property in the shadow of certain legitimate subjects, the veil of return to former owners. This is outrageous in the history of European law. By the way, as far as we know, no country in the world has made such a property reform, not to mention the European Union, not Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, etc. The Committee on Internal and National Security of the Academic Council of the President of the Republic published its collection 'Estonia's success price in 2005. The social security of Estonia and the security of the people', where it has been said that if disregard for certain groups of the population becomes a national policy, if power does not recognise the causes of concerns and does not value every person and his or her problems, it becomes a major and national problem. Aili Aarlaid, a social scientist, has observed that the property reform is part of the cultural trauma of the Estonian people. I quote: 'Estonian lived for a long period when the land was transferred from him, when he was forced into serfdom and then became serfdom, still in his home, even though it was not his property. But property wasn't important. It was home itself. ' That is exactly what happened in Soviet times. The Estonian's home was not his property, but he lived there. And then came the time when his own country took this dwelling from a hundred thousand people and handed it simply into the hands of another. Taking one off, they created a new property. 'With our own reform, we have humiliated ourselves in the eyes of the civilized world,' says the tenants' statement. Ownership reform can also be seen as a violation of one major criminal group or association at the expense of another population group. The Union of Estonian Tenants hopes that the current government will take up and begin to analyse the situation and will do everything in order to restore justice to Estonian tenants, to the hundred thousand who are now without a home, to return their honour and their home in the form of compensation, and it would certainly be a financial compensation for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-13_U210	Thank you very much for the performer! Today's trial is over. Good night. Closure of the sitting at 7:31 p.m.
