ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U2	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Through the press, especially thanks to an article published in Eesti Ekspress on several sides on 22 September, the members of the Riigikogu have received the attention of confusion in the Port of Tallinn. It has become clear that the Port of Tallinn has decided to grant 50 years of building rights for a new container terminal to an unknown shelf company, on the basis of a procedure that certainly cannot be regarded as a competition, a public procurement or any other legal process with identifiable features. These unknown partners are located in Cyprus and the British Virgin Islands. The Republic of Estonia currently does not have an overview of who has been granted the right to operate this new terminal, which has been built on a large scale with the support of the European Union Cohesion Fund. We must admit that in addition to the very serious doubts about the legality of decisions, this case has also raised questions for us about the objectives of the activities of the Port of Tallinn. Due to the logic, the aim of the Port of Tallinn should be to make optimal use of the assets transferred by the state and to make profit. At the same time, while reading the comments of the management of the Tallinn Port about Muuga's new terminal, the impression is that they want to adventure, risk unjustifiedly and fantasize in fairy tales. Of course, we would all be pleased if the new operator would bring new trade flows to our port, but in reality Russia is increasingly channelling its trade flows along Estonian ports to the port of Ust-Luga, and it is unlikely that the new operator, which is an offshore company, will improve this situation. Consequently, we have 12 questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U3	I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The document "Overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2010" prepared by the National Audit Office reveals that the Estonian health care system continues to stagnate. The overview of the National Audit Office draws attention to a number of problems in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The hospital network needs to be reformed, the family medical care system needs to be developed, health care supervision is not enough to guarantee the quality of health care and the state's activities to ensure a safe working environment have been inadequate. For many of the above problems, the National Audit Office has been drawing the public's attention for years, but the necessary solutions are still lacking. The audit of the National Audit Office 'Organisation of family care', which ended this year, showed that the Estonian family medical system is unable to fulfil all the tasks assigned to it by the health care system. Family doctors do not always provide agreed services, often send patients to consult a specialist, and in all areas family doctors are not guaranteed. It was also found that 14% of all hospital emergency services did so without justification. Later, the cause was ignorance or distrust of his family doctor. The audit of the National Audit Office also revealed that the current system of financing family medical care, where approximately 2% is paid according to the results of the work performed, does not motivate all family doctors to provide quality services. At present, family doctors receive money primarily as base money and as a bounty depending on the number and age of patients. Such a system creates the assumption that, without special effort, family doctors make just as much money as they make a significant contribution to the quality of medical care. All of this has led us to have seven questions for the Minister, to which we are awaiting answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U5	Please speak to the Riigikogu Chair Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of five Social Democrat political parties, I am going to refer an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. According to the 2006-2013 icebreaking development plan, each port should be treated on a case-by-case basis in order to define the winter ports to which the State provides icebreaking services. One port of travel and freight of regional importance is a state-owned port of Virtsu in Läänemaa, which is managed by the AS Saarte Lines. Unfortunately, this port has not been included in the list of winter ports and as a result the economic development of the port and the port area has slowed down. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Secondly, good fellows, after the plenary session of the Riigikogu, the opening meeting of the Estonian football support group is taking place in this Chamber today. The caller is Deniss Borodich. We're looking forward to active participation! Now, let's go through the presence check. Good fellows! 77 delegates registered as present, 24 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U8	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft Act 87 on the facilitation of investments and the ratification of mutual protection agreements initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Foreign Minister Urmas Paeti to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U9	Good morning, good members of the Riigikogu. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have before you a draft law ratifying three agreements on investment facilitation and mutual protection. These are agreements between the Estonian Government and the Vietnamese Government, between the Estonian Government and the Government of Kazakhstan and between the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates. The Agreement with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam also includes a Protocol amending it. Investment promotion and protection agreements aim to create a favourable investment climate and ensure equal treatment of both parties. In order to achieve the objective, these contracts determine the terms and conditions for investment-related activities, the free transfer of payments, the equal treatment of investments and the transfer of rights under the guarantee agreement. These agreements establish dispute settlement procedures and also regulate the expropriation of investments and the payment of compensation. This creates favourable conditions for investors because it guarantees their rights and freedom of action in both Contracting Parties and obliges the Contracting Parties to ensure full protection and security of investments, as well as equal treatment of investors in both Contracting Parties. These agreements have been concluded for a period of 10 years and will then be renewed for a further period of 10 years, unless either party has notified the other party of its intention to terminate the agreement before the expiry of the 10-year period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U10	Let's get to the questions. You have at least one question. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U11	Thank you. I am simply asking out of curiosity: do you have any idea what economic areas could possibly invest in relations with these countries in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U12	As far as Kazakhstan is concerned, for example, investments have already been made there. Eesti Post has very effective cooperation with local companies in Kazakhstan. There is also cooperation in the field of information technology. So something has already been done, but I very much hope that the conclusion of investment protection agreements is a signal to encourage Estonian investors to invest in these countries, but also vice versa. To predict what interest might arise in the coming years, however, does not make much sense for today's debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U13	Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your presentation and your reply. No further questions. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Enn Eesmaa, Vice Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. Please, let's keep it down!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law 87 was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its two sittings on 10 and 13 October. We had two experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Commission: Annely Kolk, Director of the Office for International Contracts of the Legal Department, and Marju Kõrts, Director of the International Economic Organisations and Investment Bureau of the Department of Foreign Economy and Development Cooperation, who answered our questions. We unanimously decided to propose to the management board of the Riigikogu to bring the draft to the first reading before the Riigikogu plenary assembly today, 20 October, and to propose amendments within 10 days in accordance with § 99 (1) of the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act. Our third joint decision was that you will be introduced in this Chamber to the debate on this draft in the committee by the speaker of these words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U15	Thank you. Before we go to the questions, I would like to thank you, my good colleagues. After my remark that there is too much noise in the hall, the atmosphere of work is much better. Thank you for your understanding. And now, please, questions, good colleagues! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. The position of the commission is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting 87 amendments on 3 November at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the first item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U16	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the 96 draft law on strategic goods initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urmas Paeti, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U17	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! One of the reasons for drawing up this draft is the implementation of the Council of the European Union Regulation on dual-use goods and the Regulation on goods used for human rights violations in Estonia's domestic law, which is why mediation and transit control measures have been added to the control of exports of these goods. This draft has also resolved the practical problems encountered in the application of the current Strategic Goods Act, which has been in force since 2004. We will also better ensure, with the new draft, that users understand the rules of strategic control of goods. This also applies to the cross-border movement of weapons, weapons parts and special components, whose regulation so far had some inconsistencies with the arms law. In addition, a new concept of 'demilitarised military goods' has been introduced in the draft. Demilitarisation means the total and permanent loss of military capabilities of a weapon on the military list, in accordance with the technical requirements laid down by the Minister of Defence. Demilitarisation of goods included in the list of military goods has not yet been regulated in Estonia. In addition, this law also transposes two EU directives. These are Directive 2009/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council aimed at simplifying the conditions for transfers of defence-related products within the Community and Directive 2010/80/EU of the European Commission amending that Directive as regards the list of defence-related products. Currently, the regulation of transfers of defence-related products within the European Union is a matter for the Member States; the new directive seeks to facilitate the transport of these goods between the countries of the European Union. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U18	Thank you. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? There are no questions. Thank you, Minister. Now I would like to ask Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U19	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 10 October before submitting it to the first reading. At the meeting, Ms Jana Vanamölder, Director of the 3rd Bureau of Policy Department (which deals with arms and strategic control) of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ms Toe Nõm, Head of the Department of Procurement Bureau of the Ministry of Defence, who replaced the Permanent Representative of the Ministry of Defence of the Strategic Goods Committee, Mr Miko Haljas, Director of the 1st Political Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Mr Perit Soinen, Director of the 1st Bureau of Legal Department (International Law and Legislation Bureau). In addition to the draft under discussion, the members of the National Defence Commission received an overview of the work of the Strategic Goods Commission. It is the Commission that will examine any request made by any company or person wishing to carry out a strategic cargo operation. Estonia should have transposed Directive 2009/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union by 30 June 2011, and this draft is therefore planned to enter into force as a law on 1 January 2012. Given the thorough presentation by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the very detailed explanatory memorandum to the draft, I am not going to repeat their content here. The draft has been drawn up on the basis of binding European Union legislation and other international documents that must be transposed into Estonian law. In addition, it should be taken into account that the current Strategic Goods Act has been in force since 2004 and needs to be updated. So much for a marginal remark that it would be clear why the draft is a whole new text of the law. At its meeting on 10 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Management Board of the Riigikogu include this bill for the first reading on the agenda of the fifth working week of the Riigikogu on Thursday 20 October. The foreign minister, Urmas Paet, was to make a presentation on behalf of the initiator of the draft act, and the rapporteur of the Commission was appointed here. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, i.e. 3 November at 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-20_U20	Thank you! Good colleagues, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! And now I have the honour of addressing all the political groups. If your representatives wish to open negotiations, this is an opportunity. There is no wish for negotiation. The position of the commission is that the first reading could be concluded. I will set the deadline for submitting 96 amendments on 3 November at 6 p.m. The first reading is closed and the second item is also closed. Good fellows, our hearing today is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10:18 a.m.
