ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! 50 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 51. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U2	Let's start by answering questions. The first question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question concerns the newly assembled new government and government union programme. After all, the background is that the latest Eurostat data show that Estonia has the highest price increase in the euro area of more than 5%. I don't think there are any analysts who would dare to confirm that the price increases will end either in Europe or in Estonia. However, yesterday in the Riigikogu, we heard Eesti Pank's assessment that it would be good if Estonia could contain the price increase, so that it would not exceed 2% per year, then people's purchasing power would decrease by one fifth in ten years. At present, with an increase of 5%, purchasing power will become smaller at a much faster pace. However, there is not much in the coalition agreement or, in fact, there are no political measures at all that the state can contain the price increase. Have you had any discussions on what tax policy tools the state could use to curb the price increase, and do you have a target which percentage could be limited to the price increase in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U4	Thank you. Realising that it is not possible to contain price increases in one Member State if a Member State uses either the currency board system at a fixed exchange rate or the euro, we cannot set ourselves very specific numerical targets. Core inflation is not high in Estonia, but due to rising food and fuel prices, inflation is certainly too high in Estonia today. I would not be as pessimistic about the forecast for future price increases as the people you referred to (I do not know by name). As we know, Estonia had a deflationary period that lasted 13 months. To date, this deflationary period is falling away as a reference period. Since price levels are now comparable year-on-year higher, inflation in Estonia should also decrease significantly towards the end of this year, for purely constitutional reasons. However, we must admit to ourselves that we are unable to control both fuel and food prices on the world market. We can promote competition and take budgetary measures. Here we have been the most exemplary and the most advanced in the whole of the European Union. While others have a considerable deficit that encourages inflation, Estonia, as the only Member State of the European Union, ended last year with a surplus of 0.1% of GDP. Perhaps I would argue that the real levers we have in our hands have been used to the maximum extent in the current circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! Statistics can probably be twisted one way or the other, but in fact people see that prices in Estonia have risen and continue to rise. As a result, I would ask you to fill out a coalition clause that says that the salaries of teachers, rescuers, border guards, policemen and other people on public pay will be frozen for the next four years. Statistics say that real wages have fallen for nine blocks in a row. If wages are frozen but prices are rising, that means further cuts in real wages for teachers, rescuers and policemen. What is the message from your government to these people? How do you intend to use the levers that you have to keep these jobs honorable?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U7	There's no way I can agree that statistics can twist anything. I can't. The statistics are very clear, and they cannot be twisted, but you will be able to twist the content of the coalition agreement. We government departments have not argued that the salaries of specific teachers or rescue officers are being frozen. A payroll shall be frozen. This means that public expenditure will not increase, but it certainly does not mean that it will not be possible to raise the wages of specific workers by increasing efficiency. On the contrary, I am convinced that the salaries of civil servants will also rise over the next four years, and in some cases this increase may be quite significant. Now you're going to ask how to increase its effectiveness. I'll give you an example right here. The Prime Minister is entitled to 35 days of leave and service, ten more days of leave for the years he has earned. I cannot imagine a prime minister (not only in Estonia, but in any other country) who could rest 45 days a year. Why should such additional leave be granted to a high public official in the first place? It should be abandoned. If a man works ten days longer for the same money, it's a clear victory. At this cost, you can save your labour costs, someone can raise your salary. I do not think we can now claim that the Estonian state apparatus is already operating with maximum efficiency and that it is no longer possible to save costs. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! There was a slight error of logic in your answer. If you do paid work instead of paid leave, there will be no savings. I'm interested, for example, in the police case. Police have had to survive several wage cuts, they have been forced to take unpaid holidays. Now their payroll stays the same, and you say they can work more efficiently. Does this Estonian language mean that if there are fewer police officers, they may start to receive pre-slash wages, but if the number of police officers remains the same or teachers are not laid off, then there will be no rise in fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U10	Thank you. Oh, how easy you're gonna get charged with making logic mistakes! I'm saying the opposite: you're making a mistake in logic. If you claim that if a person receives an x-per-year salary, including holiday pay, and there is no difference in efficiency, if he works 10 days more or 10 days less, then there is a very serious logic error. If paid extra leave is reduced, public funds will certainly be spent more effectively, they will be spent less. Nor can we say in the case of policemen that we have already used taxpayers' money with maximum efficiency and that it is not possible to use these funds more effectively. That would be too simplistic an approach. Recently, the press has referred to some Scandinavian police who have reproached Estonia. I dare argue on behalf of the Baltic police. If you look at the statistics again and I say once again that the statistics are not twisted, the statistics become true indicators, it turns out that Estonia spends 2.4% of its gross domestic product on domestic security. As an average, it is twice as much as it is spent on internal security in the Nordic countries. Therefore, we spend much more of our national wealth to ensure internal security than our partners in the Nordic countries. It is always possible to increase efficiency in every area in Estonia, including the police, the Rescue Board and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, We have seven questions in advance. At the moment, I promise to put forward three questions on-the-spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! From what you're saying, it's like we're not dealing with huge price increases. I still recall that for several months now, we have been the country with the highest price increases in Europe. Ireland, Greece and everyone else will be left behind. But can the state do anything or not? I think it can. Food, for example, is taxed at a standard rate in only a few post-socialist countries and Denmark. We have this rate at maximum level. Why can't we just humiliate it anyway? It's the lever of the state, and we could do it. But in the coalition agreement, we do not actually see any measures to improve the situation, nor do we see the will that we want to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U13	Thank you. The last observation was accurate. We don't want to do this. We do not want to secure excessive profits for merchants. We want taxpayers' money to be used efficiently. Therefore, I do not consider it reasonable under any circumstances to reduce the VAT rate on food in Estonia. I have already repeatedly given the example of Ireland from this speaker. The most expensive food products in the European Union are in Ireland. To your great pleasure, I can say that in Ireland, the rate of VAT on food is zero. It is not possible to propose a reduction in the VAT rate on food products so that people can get cheaper food products. We have also talked about Finland's example here several times before. In Finland, during the crisis, it was decided to reduce the rate of VAT on food from 17% to 12%. Even then, expectations were linked to cheaper food, which people should then have been able to buy at the store. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Food prices in Finland before the VAT rate was reduced were 120% compared to the average in the European Union and 80% in Estonia. After the overall VAT rate in Estonia rose from 18% to 20% and in Finland the rate of VAT on food fell from 17% to 12%, which was put at the end of the percentage, i.e. the rate of VAT on food is now 13%, the prices of food in Finland were 120% compared to the European Union average (I am talking about Eurostat data that cannot be twisted), in Estonia 80%. No help for a simple person, but they're probably happy merchants.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U14	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! I am pleased that you will continue as Head of Government, and I am happy to be a member of the Riigikogu in this Parliamentary Chamber, and we can continue our up-to-date conversations in briefings. They're always uplifting, because you always hear so much good out of your mouth that you forget what's going on in the country outside Toompea. But I have a question for you: how has it happened that you haven't read the newspapers in the last few days? There our leading economists have clearly said that the price increase in Estonia is much faster than in the rest of Europe; Estonia's prices are higher than in other European capitals. It has been made clear that the arrival of the euro did, however, provide an opportunity to increase prices in Estonia as a matter of urgency. Maybe we should come to the ground with two legs and analyze how these things have happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U16	Thank you. First of all, let me also welcome the initiative: I am very pleased that I can continue to have a moody discussion with you here. But from now on, our opinions will be divided again. In your opinion, the people you referred to - anonymously, but I understood who you were talking about - are leading economists, but I don't think so. Some of them, at least one of the two, I don't think I'm a scientist at all, he's just a blur. That's it. We can vote for who they are. But I have not argued that there is no high inflation in Estonia. It's high. 5% is clearly too high inflation. While, according to the European Central Bank's opinion, the ideal rise in the consumer price index is 2% per year, inflation is inevitably higher in the convergence countries, i.e. in those countries that are still trying to reach the average level of the European Union, both in terms of wage levels and price levels. But what could be an acceptable level for countries like us is an estimated question. Probably 3%. But 5% is too much. I've already given an explanation for that 5%. To some extent, this can be explained specifically by the reference base. In March 2008 prices were the highest, then they fell, and in June 2009 prices were the lowest and deflation was 2.8%. It lasted a long time, 13 months. The reference period is poor and therefore our indicator seems to be higher. There's no difference in inflation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U17	Good Prime Minister, time! The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U18	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! In answering the first question, you said (I hope I have written it correctly): we are not able, perhaps, to control the prices of food products by the government. At the same time, I remember well that a year and a half ago, in December 2009, you made a statement saying that there will be no price increases next year. It happened that in 2010, we remained within the 3% limit, i.e. we met the Maastricht criterion. This leads to the conclusion that if the government wants to control the price increase, it will do so and will do so quite effectively, if it does not want to do so, then we will have one of the highest inflation rates in Europe. Is it true that the government cannot control prices, or does it not want to?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U19	Thank you. It is true that at some point I have said that prices will not rise next year. But it doesn't take me to conclude that, either because of me or because of the government, prices aren't going up. Economic development is governed by certain patterns and is studied by economics. On the basis of these patterns, forecasts can also be made. At the moment I said that prices would not rise next year, I relied in particular on economics and scientific forecasts. I never claimed that I kept it or that the government kept prices down for a year. Deflation came without the government knowingly contributing in any way. So if someone in the currency board system, if a fixed currency exchange rate is used, claims that he is also able to control inflation fully (certain levers are definitely in the government's hands, budgetary policy instruments, etc., I have already spoken about them), then this is not something to be taken very seriously: if the exchange rate is controlled, then, at the same time, in the liberal economy, interest rates and the money market cannot be controlled, but inflation is directly linked to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U20	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U21	The next question is from my colleague, Urve Palo, to Mr Pevkur, Minister for Social Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U22	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Studies show that nearly 30% of families, including 40% of women who do not plan to have children in the next three years, highlight the inadequacy of childcare facilities as a reason for this. We know that 40% of municipalities in Estonia are unable to meet the requirement to provide day-care facilities for all children, which means that it is estimated that there is a need for some 4,000 new day-care centres in Estonia. Good Minister, since family policy is in your administration and kindergarten places are a very important part of family policy, I am asking you about this. Looking at the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, it is unfortunately not possible to see any concrete measures that would help alleviate the problem I have just described. The fact that you are planning to continue with the HOME Plan does not help much, unfortunately, because there are few kindergarten places, especially in cities and their immediate vicinity, but the HOME Plan, which is a regional measure, does not extend. What are you really going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U23	Thank you, good questioner! Your records are almost accurate. Of course, 40% of this could be argued a little bit, because, as far as I know, there are local governments that currently have this deficit in the order of 70. If we have 226 municipalities, it's less than 40%. However, as regards early childhood education as a whole, I believe that as a former member of the government and as a person exposed to population policy, you certainly know that early childhood education is a matter for municipalities. We have not discussed in the negotiations on the coalition agreement of this government whether we should centrally assume the responsibility of the Government of the Republic to ensure that there are also kindergarten places centrally. We know, and I believe that the questioner also knows very well that the lack of kindergarten places, as you mentioned in the question, is, above all, a regional issue, which is precisely the problem in towns and cities. But that doesn't mean we don't have kindergarten places. If we look at this problem as a whole and take Tallinn for example, then there is a shortage of school places in Pirita and Nõmme, but there are plenty of school places in Tallinn as a whole. It is also very likely that if children were evenly distributed in Estonia or lived where kindergarten places have been created over time, we would not have a shortage of kindergarten places. Certainly, municipalities must consider that when people come to live there, whether in a city or in a neighbouring area, this young family, who comes, is the tax payer of the municipality, will pay him taxes, and everything must be done to make sure that this young family lives there as long as possible. Certainly, municipalities have a lot of work to do here to ensure the best possible childcare for their residents.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U24	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U25	Thank you. Good minister! Before the elections, both the IRL and the Reform Party said that the shortage of kindergarten places is a problem and you would like to alleviate it if you continue your work. Now you will continue to work, but you do not want to alleviate this problem. When the Social Democrats were in government, the program "Every Kid's Kindergarten Place" was launched, which worked very well. We've been able to create 500 new kindergarten places in one year. Now, however, I find only such a point in the coalition agreement that you consider it right that the children of one family have the right to go to the same kindergarten, and that is why you intend to amend the law. I'm telling you, having worked in the municipality myself, every sane municipality wants to put siblings in a kindergarten, but the law doesn't solve this problem that easily. When there are kindergarten places, siblings are put in one kindergarten. So we still get back to what the country is planning to do to create more kindergarten places.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U26	Ladies and gentlemen, We have a minute to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U27	Thank you for the clarification. When you worked in a sane municipality where they did that, it was very good. It is also possible to find places in Estonia where there is a large shortage of kindergarten places and children in one family have problems getting into one kindergarten. Speaking of the 'Every child's kindergarten place' program, it is worth remembering that this was not your election promise at the time. But you know that. Let the election and the admissions be as they are. As regards the creation of kindergarten places or investing in kindergartens, you will also know that the Government of the Republic has been very active in selling CO2 quotas, for example, which has resulted in many millions of kroons or euros in kindergartens (if we are still talking in Estonian kroons, hundreds of millions of kroons, and if we are talking in euro, certainly tens to tens of millions of euros) investment grants to improve the situation of kindergartens. There are also municipalities who, when the birth rate was reduced, gave day-care facilities to elderly day-care centres, for example, but have now re-introduced these facilities for kindergartens. One example is from here in Tallinn, from Nõmme to Raku kindergarten, where the rooms previously used were re-used. So the municipalities have different options. I very much hope that, since early childhood education is a municipal arrangement, they will look at it as if every child who comes to live in a local government is a potential future taxpayer and every child is a value. Of course, every municipality has to make sure that there are enough kindergarten places.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U28	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U29	As far as common sense is concerned, even though common sense triumphs in local governments, it is not possible to give a sister and brother a place in the same kindergarten as there is a queue. That's why they don't do it. Once again, I'm saying that this bill won't work unless there's more seats. But the question is still very serious. When we are talking about the shortage of kindergarten places, we are talking about automatically putting more strain on women who cannot return to the labour market and in a difficult situation. We are particularly short of childcare facilities for children up to three years of age. I understand, however, that the government is not planning to do anything about the lack of 4 000 seats and that your action plan says that family policy and the well-being of your families are important to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U30	Thank you for your second point of clarification. This world view is certainly not so simplistic. If you want to take it in black and white like this, you can do it, but I believe that once you have read the government action programme and the action plan approved by the government, you have seen that kindergartens and early childhood education are also dealt with by the government, despite the fact that it is the responsibility of the local governments (I say again) by law. The government is taking this pretty seriously. I believe that the questioner is very well aware that a development plan for children and families is being prepared in the Ministry of Social Affairs, where a lot is being said about childcare and, above all, about what you briefly touched on, perhaps the return of women to the labour market. If we look at the opportunities of the municipalities, it is not necessarily a duty to create new kindergarten places, but to give the opportunity to provide childcare, as some municipalities have done, and to pay for childcare according to the cost of the kindergarten place. In this sense, municipalities have different options; it is a question of their ingenuity. If there is really no investment money directly to build the cabin box, the operating costs could at least be foreseen for parents to be able to hire a babysitter and should be remunerated for childcare services to the same extent as the provision of early childhood education services to kindergartens. Again, I call on the municipalities to address this problem seriously. We are ready to provide support, advice and help. We are certainly also working to ensure that young mothers return to the labour market as soon as possible and that young fathers are at home with their children and thus give women the opportunity to return to the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U31	Ladies and gentlemen, Now three issues registered on the spot. Time moves fast. Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have a short question. Is there a programme in this area or not? Why am I asking that? Because in the last two years, when we have adopted the budget, this programme has not been in there. If there is a programme, how will it be identified and financially specified in the budget for the coming year? Or is this program really in a drawer somewhere and you don't have to hope for any more?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U33	Thank you for your question. If you mean the program on paper, the answer is no. The government has nevertheless looked at all the investments according to the possibilities of the financial year and the activities of the specific year. If we look at all the sums that the Government of the Republic has placed centrally in early childhood education, then, as I said, if we also take the millions that have come from the sale of only CO2 quotas, we will see that very, very large money has been put into early childhood education and this has greatly relieved the situation and financial situation of the municipalities. In other words, the repetition of existing kindergartens has reduced the responsibilities of municipalities, which means that municipalities will have the opportunity to find money from their budgets to build new kindergartens if necessary. Of course, each specific budget sets out what kindergarten or field will be spent on. I think that if we add all the sums together, we will really get considerable support for the local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U34	Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U35	Here is an analogy with how Tallinn City Government implements the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. As we have seen this spring, he will apply the law in such a way that the intention of the law to treat all first-class children equally, so that they have the opportunity to get a place in first-class, is clearly distorted and this law has not been implemented. The same thing we have actually seen in the pre-school child welfare law for years. Is it still not possible for the state to impose some clear sanctions on those municipalities that are unable or perhaps in some cases really unwilling to comply with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U36	Thank you. The central government has not so far been too hasty to impose sanctions on local governments in the event of failure to comply with the law. I believe that the initial assessment of the activities of local governments must be carried out by the people. If people see the management of the municipality setting priorities in such a way that an important public service, or early childhood education, is lost in the municipality, then parents will certainly take this into account when choosing their place of residence. I believe that sanctioning is not what will help the situation further. Even if taken purely theoretically, the sanction could cause defy and cause even less money to be allocated in this area, because if the municipality's income base is reduced or there is a one-off fine measure, then the money will be even less. I don't think that makes any sense. People's mobility varies greatly. We see that in some municipalities the number of inhabitants is increasing, in others the number of inhabitants is decreasing. Municipalities must be flexible. In particular, where there is a relatively small gap between what is offered and what is required, municipalities should still look for flexible forms of childcare facilities and organise the provision of childcare services to people as flexibly as possible. If you can see that this trend is more long-term, i.e. children come to the municipality permanently, then, of course, more kindergartens must also be built in order to provide childcare services.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U37	The last issue registered on the spot, Mr Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U38	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, To be precise, CO2 quotas allowed old kindergartens to be 'run', but it was relatively difficult to make new ones. This method of sharing, in turn, raises questions. But let me ask you a little more concretely, summing up the previous story: is it just a problem for local authorities to set up kindergarten places, and you do not think that there is a need for a national specific programme for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U39	Thank you for your question. I come back to the beginning of your question. As I replied to Mr Efendiev: the fact that we managed to put the money from the sale of CO2 quotas into early childhood education, which is to say, improving the situation of existing kindergartens, significantly reduced the burden on the municipalities, and the local authorities therefore have the opportunity to use the investments planned for the maintenance of their existing kindergarten to build a new kindergarten. It's definitely a very big support. As I said, if we add the sums of municipalities supported by the sale of all CO2 quotas, which have gone into early childhood education, there will be a large number of millions in total. As regards whether it is a national obligation or not, whether the State sees it as an obligation, it is certainly always possible to start negotiations with the local government associations, both the urban union and the association of rural municipalities, and to discuss whether it is right to organise early childhood education. If the municipalities withdraw from this issue and say that they do not want to organise early childhood education, it is certainly also possible to discuss the central provision of this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U40	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U41	The next question is from Mr Vakra to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U42	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, I apologise, but first of all I thank Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur for bringing Nõmme and Raku as an example and in a positive key. Thank you, Hanno! But, good Prime Minister, I have a problem. The concern continues to lie in the price of electricity and the discussions and disputes about it. I've listened to earlier briefings. I very much liked your emotional position before the elections, which you repeated in Question Time, so that the 19% increase in network charges would be bullshit. You said you wouldn't make your assessment before the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority has now stated its position and agreed to an increase of 13%. This morning we met the Director General of the Competition Authority, Märt Ots. He considered the price increase to be more important that in 2013, when he estimates that the electricity market in the Nordic countries will converge, the price level in Estonia will be equal to the price level in Finland. If you look at this price today, it's 3.1 cents per kilowatt hour. The question is this: what is going to be done about the price increase, which is 13% on 1 August due to the increase in network charges, and which will be nearly double in the future, or 100% in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U43	Let me remind you once again: there is one minute to ask the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U44	The Competition Authority is the institution in Estonia that coordinates prices. I fully trust the Competition Authority in this. However, if the Competition Authority starts to speculate and to offer future tariffs, then the Competition Authority will certainly be out of the scope of its powers. As an independent institution, an independent inspection should not deal with such speculation. I am not quite convinced that your reference is correct and therefore I do not want to comment on it in any way. I do not believe that the Director-General of the Competition Authority is really prepared to speculate on what he thinks the price would be in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U45	Please, Mr Vakra, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U46	Prime Minister! This speculation also exists on my computer in the form of slides sent by the Director General of the Competition Authority. This morning, we were indeed shown on the screen what the price is now like in Estonia (the average household consumer was observed). That's 3.1 cents per kilowatt-hour. In Finland, this price is 5,7 cents per kilowatt-hour. His message was that in two years, the price would converge. The question is whether you believe that this is the Director-General's fiction and that he should not express such thoughts or make assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U47	Thank you. The Director-General of the Competition Authority is not required to prepare economic forecasts or plan future scenarios, but to coordinate the price requests submitted to it. I believe he's been entirely correct in this, there he hasn't been lost. However, involvement in all kinds of speculation should not be the area in which the independent competition authority deals. What will be the price level of Nord Pool in 2013, is related to a large number of unknown agents, which are not currently known by the Director General of the Competition Authority, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Finland and Norwegian police officers. I don't want to be serious about these predictions right now. I believe that there are quite a lot of scientists who, more specifically than I or the person you refer to, can predict the price of any product in the future. I'd leave it up to them, and I wouldn't go along with it, and I wouldn't be able to compete with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U48	Please, Mr Vakra, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U49	Thank you. Does the government, in principle, foresee any measure or plan of measures against such a, say, speculative increase of 100%, does it have a plan B?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U50	It is very naughty to call Nord Pool's price speculative. There's no way we can agree on that approach. I would not want to go along with any speculation about this price level. But speaking of the real future price and the behaviour of the state, I must say that the indications that you are supposed to have in your question of possible subsidies are inappropriate under the conditions of an open market in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U51	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U52	Prime Minister! I'll continue the discussion where we left off a week ago. We talked about foreign investments in Eesti Energia. I asked you if you know how much Eesti Energia invests outside Estonia. At the time, you owed me an answer. My question is, have you been able to look it up in the meantime? The subject is very important. We know that these investments outside Estonia are at a very high risk level. This means that banks do not grant loans, Eesti Energia closes equity to their investments and can invest less in Estonia, Eesti Energia must take out a loan or demand more money from the government. We're talking about taxpayers' money. So the volume of investments is important. I would like to know if you can answer that question today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U53	Thank you. But I also answered that question last time. First of all, as far as the project is concerned in Jordan, there all the expenses made so far by Eesti Energia are covered. The participation in the joint venture created in Jordan has been disposed of to the extent that the investments so far have all been covered and Eesti Energia still has a 65% stake in the joint venture. On the project in the United States, I have read in the press that Eesti Energia's investment there is 29 million euros. No one has ever made a secret of this. As far as the risk ratio is concerned, I have already answered this question the last time. I expect both the management of the company and the board of the company have carefully considered all the important business risks and, as a result of a deep analysis, decided to invest in it, considering these investments as promising, also in the sense that there is a high return to the Estonian state and to the taxpayers of the Estonian state. You have also had little business experience yourself, and you may also remember that there is generally such a rule in business that you have to be afraid not of large expenses, but of small incomes. Those who are afraid of making investments at all will certainly not benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U54	Please, the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Laasi.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I'm interested in your position. In your opinion, as a head of government, the price of electricity in Estonia, taking into account the average income of people, is at the very average of incomes, is now normal for ordinary consumers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U56	Thank you. Yes, the price of electricity is normal given the average income of people and the level of electricity prices in other EU Member States. But, of course, as a consumer, I would always like all prices, not only electricity prices, but also bread, bread, bicycles, cars, to be much lower than they are under free market conditions. When comparing the price of electricity in the Baltic region, we see that Estonia has the lowest price of electricity in the region. We know that wages are much higher in Estonia at the same time as they are in Latvia and Lithuania. The highest price of electricity for domestic customers is in Latvia, then Lithuania comes and then Estonia comes. Once again, the price of electricity in Estonia is the second most cheapest in the European Union, the cheapest electricity in the European Union is in Bulgaria. It's an objective picture. It's another reference to statistics that can't be twisted. But emotionally, like you, I'd like to buy cheaper and sell more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U57	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U58	Let's go to the next question. Mr Järvi will put the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U59	Thank you very much to the manager. I'm turning to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has repeatedly dealt with the abduction of seven Estonians in Lebanon. A few years ago, Aarne Rannamäe, a journalist for national broadcasting, was also in front of us, who gave a very thorough overview of what was happening there. Thanks to the foreign minister's shuttle diplomacy, everyone really knows about Estonia's problem there. However, the people who have approached me as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs are concerned that right now it seems that our case is the only case that hangs in the air, that everyone else has been resolved in one way or another. That is why I am asking the Foreign Minister what is known to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about statistics on other such kidnappings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U60	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, the world is somewhat meaner and uglier. It is not the case that only Estonian citizens are those who are currently kidnapped and whose location and the motive of the robbers are unknown. Looking a little wider at the background of kidnappings, according to data from the United States Counter-Terrorism Centre, a total of 1932 people were kidnapped in the last three years, which was in the world between 2008 and 2010. So, in recent years, thousands of people have been kidnapped. This is the most general way of taking this background system. Unfortunately, citizens of several other countries of the European Union have also been kidnapped and have been kidnapped for quite a long time. For example, a group of people from France were kidnapped on 29 December 2009 and, unfortunately, this is still a positive case. Another group of French citizens was kidnapped last September. This story, too, does not have a positive solution so far. There have been recent reports, for example, of the kidnapping of Danish citizens, etc. Unfortunately, such kidnappings continue to take place very much. Unfortunately, the tendency is that cases are being resolved. This time is no longer measured in days or even weeks, but rather in months and years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U61	Please, Mr Järvi, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U62	Thank you very much. Let me ask you a little bit about this. It is known that the Estonian state is small and our resources are limited. But can we say that even if the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not visit this region, the representatives of the Estonian state will be there and will really try to do their best?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U63	Yes, our people will continue to be present in Beirut, Lebanon, as well as in other countries in the region, as necessary or where cooperation and assistance are now the most possible. In this regard, we have acted flexibly. As the investigation of this matter is conducted by Lebanon's security services, our people are permanently present there, but contacts continue to function in other countries in the region as well. We have several partner countries with whom research is being carried out, but unfortunately this has not so far led to the facts about the motives of the kidnappers or the location of our citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U64	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question relates to the question of the previous speaker. I ask the emotional question: what can you say as Minister of Foreign Affairs to the family of kidnapped cyclists so that they can maintain their determination?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U66	I myself met someone close to the people who were kidnapped last week. The people of the State Department are in constant contact with them. We'll contact them if there's anything to explain, and they'll always be able to contact us. The main thing that should help to maintain confidence is that when the last contact from the robbers came a few weeks ago in the form of a video message, all experts estimate that the main message of this message was that the kidnappers still want to keep in touch. There is no reason or reason to believe that this story will not be resolved after some time. This time has been very long for us, six weeks, but unfortunately, if you look at the background system I was talking about at the beginning, you can see that these cases often last months and, in worse cases, even over a year. Therefore, six weeks (as unpleasant as it may sound) have not been an extraordinary time, given that the kidnappers have made contact three times during this period, with a certain time difference, indicating that there is probably no shortage of time for the kidnappers at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U67	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! In the light of this unfortunate story, has there been an increase in people's interest in registering themselves when they go to analogous countries? Has there been an increase in confidence in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the sense that if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs recommends not to go to one place or another, travel plans have been changed or such adrenaline-enhancing trips have been cancelled or postponed to a more distant future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U69	We have noted some increased interest in registering people at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when, for example, going out of Europe. But it is very difficult to control because there is no compulsion or obligation. We do not have an overview of how many Estonian citizens are travelling in one country or another, since there is no registration requirement, registration is simply an option. I continue to advise everyone to do so here in front of you. It's really good if nothing happens. But the main point of registration is that if something happens in the country x, if there is an earthquake, a natural disaster, a terrorist attack or whatever, then we have a good overview of the Estonian citizens who may be present there at that time, and we can then try to help them as precisely as possible. Otherwise, it's gonna take some time to figure out who's where. Speaking of helping and saving people, it has to be said that such cases certainly have the advantage of those we already know needing to be hunted or helped. My continuing appeal, of course, is that you should still sign up if, for example, you go outside Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U70	Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U71	The next question is from colleague Marika Tuusi to Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U72	Thank you. It's a pleasure to meet you. I start by saying that when we look at the coalition agreement, we see that there is not much to be said about improving the availability and quality of health services. Here is a statement that top chefs are involved in school cooking and that more organic food is recommended. This is despite the fact that many families feed on food aid, and poverty is so great. But I don't see anything important coming up with funding for health care. We know the cuts were huge. What does it mean, in fact, that there is a need for greater coherence of funds with the patient? Does this mean an increase in own contribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U73	Thank you for your question. The increase in own contribution is not directly planned anywhere. I suggest you read the coalition agreement literally. There is a lot and a lot about financing health care there. The most important thing for health care is the sustainability of funding. The honourable questioner, having long been a member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, has certainly encountered these issues. With regard to the sustainability of funding, the last few months have made the mind a little happier. The last spring forecast by the Ministry of Finance brought an addition to the collection of social tax, which will certainly give the Board of Health Insurance the opportunity to decide what the priorities are. Are we giving priority to the quantity of medical cases, or purely availability, or buying more medical cases, both outpatient and inpatient, or buying more specific types of treatment, such as care? The same coalition agreement states that we are prematurely increasing the financing of care care, which is clearly justified as we have more and more older people. Or do we make the choice that we do not buy so many more medical cases but first restore the coefficient to 1.0? These choices in budgeting are certainly very numerous for the Health Insurance Board. The Coalition Agreement provides sufficient support to make different decisions. It is much of a question of what these final decisions are. I believe that whatever this decision is, it's only in the interests of the patient.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U74	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U75	Thank you. The availability of specialist medical care remains a concern. We know there was about a percentage more money, but the queues have been even longer. Just yesterday, I learned that, for example, orthopedic and ophthalmologists have had all their appointments and that new lists have not been opened. However, today, for example, at 2.40 p.m., there was a time off if you paid for it yourself. I also called spine surgery, for example, and learned from it that there are no available days until the end of July and that new lists have not yet been opened. So we still have, like, a queue. However, the maximum length of the queues laid down by law is, but all these queues exceed that time. What have you planned to do to shorten the queues? I would remind you that the queues also increased in the years of economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U76	Thank you. You know very well that if you choose one particular specialty in a particular hospital, you can really find that there is a very long line. If you call Läänemaa Hospital with the same concern, I think you will definitely get a much better orthopedic appointment than you will if you call North-Estonian Regional Hospital, for example. That is what we have discussed here many times. You know the situation very well. As far as improving accessibility is concerned, as I said, it depends on those choices whether we will first come to doctors and hospitals who want to get a coefficient of 1.0 again, or whether we will meet the patient and buy more treatment cases at the same price. It is only because of the ageing of the population that we are under the pressure that the number of treatment cases is constantly increasing. These are the choices that we in the Health Insurance Board must make by involving all social groups. We'll see where we're going.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, Question time is over, so I will stop dealing with this issue. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions! Thank you very much to the members of the government and to the Prime Minister for replying. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U78	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over inquiries and drafts. I would like to ask my colleague, Kalle Laanet, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! More recently, serious problems have come to the public with regard to close-relationship violence, domestic violence. As we all know, not only does one party or the other suffer from these problems, but the children will certainly suffer the most as a result, and it will pass on to our society over the next few years. In comparison, if we sow grass in the spring, we tend to grow quite a bit of malts together with the grass with the first swing. If we don't mow the lawn often and we don't pick up the masts, then eventually the cast will eat out the lawn. On this basis, the Central Party Group will initiate a draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The aim is to make it easier to verify compliance with the conditions of the temporary protection order and the protection order imposed by the judgment, by means of electronic surveillance. The second objective of the draft act is to differentiate the penalties for breach of the terms of the temporary protection order and the protection order imposed by the judgment and to sanction the infringement even if it does not result in a threat to the person's life, health or property, as well as the first infringement by the person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U80	Thank you. Please, colleague Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! At the beginning of the new period of work, we must share our spiritual light with a number of institutions belonging to state structures and extend the directional arm to them. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I will hand over two draft decisions. On the basis of one draft decision, the Riigikogu should appoint new members of the Riigikogu to the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Centre for the Management of the State Forests, and on the basis of a draft decision initiated by another environmental committee, the Riigikogu should decide to withdraw the members of the Supervisory Board of the Foundation Environmental Investment Centre and appoint new members of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I trust these to be the subject of your fierce debate. I hope that you will support our initiatives and both councils will receive a good addition from the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U82	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U83	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, 15 Members of the Social Democratic Party Group will submit an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The inquiry is due to the problems of Eesti Post, which became public at the end of last week. The profit of Eesti Post was known to be 7.2 million euros last year, but at the same time the company lost 0.8 million euros in universal postal service, which both the Supervisory Board and the Management Board have considered abnormal. According to Aavo Kärmas, member of the management board, the company will face EUR 4 million in future losses resulting from the provision of universal service. Meelis Atonen has also said that if the country does not offer a solution in the coming months, the Council will propose that the agreement be terminated. There is also an opportunity to go to court. That is why we have three questions, including the question of why the state does not subsidise the services of Eesti Post in the required amount, and the question of the government's measures so that the Estonian Post Council does not take extreme decisions or terminate the agreement with the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U84	Thank you. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U85	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As a follow-up to the subject raised in Question Time and the discussion with Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, we wish to continue the discussion with the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, in the form of a discussion. The subject is the salaries of teachers, police, border guards and rescue workers. It would be interesting to discuss why the Government of the Republic is of the opinion in the coalition agreement that in the next four years, the salaries of teachers, police officers, border guards and rescue staff should not be increased, given the fact that real wages have fallen for nine quarters in a row, and also what has been highlighted by the Nordic Police Association, which is quite critical of our internal situation, and the figures put forward by our Alliance of Educational Workers, which show that, given the average age of teachers, problems of secondary growth will arise in the future if we are not able to attract a sufficient number of young teachers to school. As a result, members of the Central Party Group have five questions for Jürgen Ligi. I believe that in response to the question, we will have answers to the questions, at least there will be a discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U86	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted three draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Now, some messages, ladies and gentlemen. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed the leading committees to them: the draft law on maritime safety, the law on state fees and the amendment of the port law, which is the commission of the Economic Commission; the draft law on the ratification of the 2006 International Tropical Timber Treaty initiated by the Government of the Republic the day before yesterday, the commission of which is the Committee on the Environment; the draft law on the amendment of the railway law initiated yesterday by the Government of the Republic, the commission of which is the Economic Commission; the draft law on the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia relating to the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and other laws, the leading committee of which is the National Defence Committee; the draft law on the person sent to the nuclear disaster area initiated by the Estonian Central Party yesterday, the commission of which is the Social Affairs Committee. The members of the Riigikogu formed a parliamentary group in Bosnia and Herzegovina yesterday and a support group in Harjumaa. Ladies and gentlemen, Please, let's do the presence check! 94 members registered as present, no 7.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U87	Today's agenda includes one item, the first reading of the draft Law on the Securities Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance of the speaker's desk, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I present to you a draft initiated by the Government of the Republic which amends a number of financial laws. This bill was already here at first reading on 16 February, but it fell out of the procedure as the working time of the Riigikogu ended. The most important changes are made to the Securities Market Act and the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act, but also to the Law of Property Act. First, the concept of financial security and who can enter into such an agreement will be clarified. In general, these guarantee agreements are concluded between banks. The financial security shall consist of money, share or other security held in the account. In addition, a claim arising from a bank loan may also be the subject of a financial guarantee. The regulation of financial security is already in force in Estonia and, to a large extent, it is a result of European Union law. According to Estonian practice, however, it has been established that financial guarantee agreements are concluded between banks and ordinary companies, just smaller than companies, in order to obtain a loan from the bank. However, in the event of the bankruptcy of the company that received the loan, the bank will have a large advantage over other creditors in the distribution of the assets. Furthermore, financial guarantee arrangements cannot be declared invalid in bankruptcy proceedings. This approach of banks entering into financial guarantee arrangements with ordinary companies is generally not in line with the objective of the EU directive. The Directive provides that such agreements should be concluded between banks and other financial institutions. The draft therefore introduces an amendment under which financial collateral arrangements can be concluded only between banks or larger companies in the future. This approach is also common in other Member States of the European Union. Secondly, the draft specifies how Member States' securities settlement systems must work together. The Estonian securities settlement system is part of the NASDAQ international financial group and has links with the securities settlement systems of its neighbours (Finland, Poland, Lithuania and Latvia). Such system links create the assumption that financial transactions will become faster and cheaper. These requirements also derive from the Directive. Third, a number of important changes are made to the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act. On the basis of the current regulation, the account manager, who is usually a bank, can hold securities of many investors in the central register of Estonian securities through a single account. Such an account shall be called a representative account. As a general rule, Estonian securities are held in this form by foreign investors, for example, foreign banks have opened more than a thousand representative accounts in Estonia. However, the current law provides for a number of additional requirements in the opening of representative accounts compared to the opening of ordinary securities accounts. One of the main requirements is that the account manager should open a representative account separately for both natural and legal persons, both residents and non-residents. Such a requirement to open four accounts will be abolished by the bill. The opening of representative accounts should become cheaper and foreign investors in particular should become easier to acquire securities in Estonia. In addition to the above, a completely new type of securities account is also set out in a direct account. Until now, any person who has wished to open a securities account or conduct transactions with securities in Estonia has had to do so through a bank. The bill creates the possibility to open an account in the central register of Estonian securities directly, without any bank mediation. This will allow, in particular, small investors to conduct securities transactions more conveniently and probably cheaper. In summary, the proposed changes should encourage foreign investments in Estonia and allow small investors to conduct transactions with Estonian securities more conveniently and cheaper than previously. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U89	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I call Taavi Rõivas, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The same draft was also discussed by the previous parliamentary assembly during its last week of sitting, but unfortunately it was not completed and this draft fell out of the procedure due to the end of the term of office of the XI Riigikogu. The Finance Committee of the previous Riigikogu realised that the draft could not be processed until the end of the parliamentary term, but we nevertheless wished to do so in plenary at first reading in order to inform the public of the proposed changes and to give a clear signal to the European Union about the desire to transpose the provisions of the directive. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the amendments resulting from the directive should have been transposed into the law by 30 December of last year, but the substantive application of the rules to be transposed is foreseen in the directive from s. a 30 June. No infringement proceedings have been opened against Estonia. The delay in this draft is mainly due to the protracted preparation period of the draft and, of course, to the end of the mandate of the Riigikogu. This draft was discussed in the Commission on 18 March, when the draft was presented and questions answered by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Head of the Ministry's Financial Markets Department Thomas Honourable. The Commission was mainly interested in the possibility of opening a direct account in the central register of Estonian securities and the timely transposition of the amendments resulting from the Directive. The Commission's consensual proposal is to conclude the first reading of the draft, send it to second reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments on Monday 9 May at 10 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-04_U91	Thank you very much, Mr Javier. There are no questions. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft no 8 in s. 9 May at 10 a.m. First reading of Bill No 8 is complete. Our agenda is exhausted. Ladies and gentlemen, The sitting is adjourned. Good work in committees! Closure of the sitting at 2.18 p.m.
