ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the eighth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the suspension of the mandate of the Riigikogu member Kaja Kallas, Terje Trei is a member of the Riigikogu. I beg you, Terje Trei, to take the oath of office in the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, I would like to ask Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U5	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates two draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the Council of the European Union Convention on Central Customs Clearance in relation to the determination of the internal recovery costs to be retained when granting the EU budget of traditional own resources. Secondly, the draft law amending the legislation relating to membership of the International Monetary Fund. Thirdly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Acceptance to increase the quota of the Republic of Estonia in the International Monetary Fund'. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when dealing with the above three drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U6	Thank you. Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I am handing over the draft Act amending § 5 of the VAT Act. In particular, § 5 (2) (2) (2) of the Act makes an amendment, where 'EUR 38' is written instead of 'EUR 128'. This draft is based on the desire to maintain the VAT refund, the so-called tax-free sales, for a temporary period of two years, from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2011 and is about to expire, the current reduced VAT refund limit. The proposal to maintain the reduced threshold after 31 December has been addressed to us and the Ministry of Finance by the Estonian Merchants Association, the Estonian Hotels and Restaurant Association and the Estonian Tourist Association. Their proposal was supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which estimates that the VAT rate reduced to EUR 38.35 for two years from January 2010 had a very clear positive impact on the tourism sector. With this draft, we want to make this temporary measure for two years permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U8	Thank you. On behalf of the Governing Board, I have adopted four drafts. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. Now the messages. The Board of the Riigikogu has approved the member of the Riigikogu, Arto Asa, as chairman of the Economic Committee and Urve Palo as vice-chairman of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Employment Contracts Act, initiated on 7 November, and related amendments to other laws, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee, and the Government of the Republic. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates' submitted on 7 November, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 10 November, Estonia submitted its views on the proposal for a Council Directive establishing basic safety standards for protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation, to the European Union Affairs Commission, and has appointed the Environment Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the proposal for a directive of the Council of the European Union. The deadline for the opinion is 24 November at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 10 November, Estonia's views on the Green Paper presented by the European Commission on strengthening mutual trust in the European area of justice: the Green Paper on the application of EU criminal law, the European Union Affairs Commission and the Council of Ministers have appointed the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the Green Paper. The deadline for the opinion is 24 November at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 10 November, Estonia presented its views on the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an evaluation and monitoring mechanism to verify the application of the Schengen acquis and on the Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 to lay down common rules on the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders in exceptional cases, on drafts for the Commission for European Union Affairs and has appointed a Committee on Constitutional Affairs to deliver an opinion on the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. The deadline for the opinion is 24 November at 4 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Ladies and gentlemen, Please, let's do the presence check! 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to the agenda. This week's agenda will be on your desks. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U9	Let's start working on the Monday agenda points. Answering questions begins. The first question is the members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kotkas, Kalvi Tõvi, Karel Rüütli, Jaak Allik, Jaan Õunapuu, Andres Anvelt and Rein Randver on 13 October s. a request for information on the transfer of a self-employed undertaking. Mr Kalev Eagle, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, The Act amending the Income Tax Act and related laws, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, allows for the transfer, as one of the innovations, of property belonging to a self-employed company to a person who continues to operate the company. Paragraph 1 (47) of the same Act states that the procedure for the application of the exemption when assets are transferred shall be laid down by regulation of the Minister of Finance. Regrettably, the regulation has not yet been introduced in the Riigikogu within nine months of the entry into force of the Act and within a year of the adoption of the Act. In the agricultural sector, this amendment to the Income Tax Act has been long awaited, as it allows the principle of 'from father to son' to be applied on a reasonable basis and thus facilitate the exchange of generations in agriculture. On this issue, we have three questions for the Minister of Finance. First of all, we want to know why the Minister for Finance has not introduced this regulation. Secondly, we are asking when this regulation will be introduced. Thirdly, we ask whether the Minister considers it possible, on the basis of the principle of equal treatment of companies, to legitimise the exemption from the state fee for the conversion of vehicles, tractors and real estate resulting from the transfer of a self-employed company, as well as possible contracts governing obligations and rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U11	Thank you very much, Kalev Eagle! I would like to ask the speaker to respond to Mr Jürgen Ligi, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The first question was this: 'Why has the Minister of Finance not introduced a regulation in the Riigikogu within a year of the adoption of the Act and within nine months of the entry into force of the Act as provided for in the Income Tax Act? " The answer is that the Minister of Finance has done so. Regulation 'Declaration of income of a resident natural person' has been signed on 14 June this year; it has been published in the Official Journal of the State on 16 June. As an annex to the Regulation, the self-employed person's declaration form E.Lisa establishes the procedure for transferring the self-employed person's business. The second question: 'When does the Minister establish the arrangements for the application of the exemption when the assets provided for in Paragraph 37 (7) of the Income Tax Act are transferred? " At the right time. The Decree of the Minister for Finance and the new declaration form for self-employed persons, introduced as an annex thereto, will apply at the beginning of the new tax period, i.e. from 1 January 2012. Changes in tax legislation will enter into force at the beginning of the tax period in order to avoid confusion. Changes in the middle of the tax period are often not possible. The third question: 'Do you consider it possible to exempt vehicles, tractors and immovable property resulting from the transfer of a self-employed enterprise from the state tax on the reformification of contracts which may be subject to obligations and rights as a result of the principle of equal treatment of enterprises? " I see no greater reason. The self-employed person is a specific person on whose behalf property used for business and registered as such is registered: vehicles, tractors, real estate. If the company is transferred, the owner of the property will change. A change in ownership must also be recorded. The state fee is intended to cover the costs of the registration operations. Tax exemptions are granted in very exceptional cases, such as the registration of birth and death or the claim for maintenance. In such cases, the public interest is more important than the costs involved in carrying out the operation, and the principle of solvency is also respected. Exemption from state fees is conceivable, in particular, in the case of operations which are unavoidable for a person. Exemption from state fees for certain activities means that the costs are paid indirectly by the remaining taxpayers. Therefore, the exemption from state fees is not justified in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U13	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U14	Thank you for your answers, honest Minister of Finance. It's good to know that the Troubled Regulation is ready. On the other hand, it would also be useful to inform the Minister for Agriculture, who did not know anything about this until September, when it was last mentioned. Do you not see the problem of the fact that the principle of equal treatment of companies is violated by the fact that it is cheaper to transfer companies from companies to companies than self-employed workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U15	Thank you. You did not ask an exact question about the amount of the state fee in advance. I can't compare these two things. However, the self-employed person is a natural person and the natural persons still bear this burden and are borne by companies. I don't have in my head what these exact rates are. As far as the Minister of Agriculture is concerned, he'll probably find out. I'm sure they found out about it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U16	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Finance Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U17	Let's go to the next question. This is the members of the Riigikogu Kajar Lemberi, Sven Mikser, Neeme Suur, Jaak Allik, Karel Rüütli, Jaan Õunapuu and Rein Randver on 25 October. a request for information on the use of funds received from the sale of unused allowances. Mr. Kajar Lemberi, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U18	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! We really have five questions for the Minister. I am glad that this question is answered so quickly in this Chamber. The content and point of our five questions is, in short, that both the public and the Riigikogu can learn more about the distribution of so-called CO2 money. The focus is perhaps on why one institution, namely the State Forest Management Centre, received a very large amount of this money. There are also questions as to whether making all these investments through Riigi Kinnisvara AS was the most sensible solution. That is what our five questions are about. So let's hear the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U19	Thank you very much, Mr Lember. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance for the premiere.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! I'm happy to answer. Glad in the sense that these questions are not at all paralytic, as has been the case with some of the articles of the same authors that I have seen. There is really nothing to hide or to be ashamed about this process. But let's take it in a row. The first question: 'What is the justification for the large number of buildings belonging to RMK in the list of buildings to be renovated by means of the AAU sale? 'Assessment'very much' is subjective because the number of RMK objects is only 4.6% of all objects, there are 22. I cannot rule out that there has also been some part of the institutional balance here, but a great deal still depended on how quickly someone was able to present these projects. This is more of a praise to the Minister for the Environment, who did it quickly. Not everyone got here so fast. And it was very urgent. This is the kind of money that has been given to us for very fast and well-targeted spending, and this creates a very high administrative burden. It's not possible to wait here. The state has signed a total of 13 AAU sales agreements with Japanese corporations, which included a just pay attention to 480 objects. There are even more buildings, as several buildings may be located at the same address. 240 of them are objects of the State (i.e. exactly half), including those belonging to legal persons governed by public law, and the local authorities also have 240. In the case of state objects, we preferred social and educational objects in the negotiations, which are, as if, closer to the beneficiaries. The State Forest Management Centre is, as I said, the ruler of 22 funded objects. According to the purpose of the project, investments are divided as follows: education, including kindergartens, 49.9% (precisely half), culture 17.2%, public authorities, including RMK and Rescue Board, 14%, social objects 8.5%, health care 7.2% and body culture 3.2%. Investments of state objects, together with investments by public universities, account for 74.4% of the total resources, and for local government objects 25,6%. The objects of RMK that were selected competed only with the objects of the state. The decisions took into account the technical state of construction and the cost-effectiveness of renovations in reducing CO2 emissions. The state of construction was assessed on the basis of the state inventory of real estate made in 2009 by Riigi Kinnisvara AS. The objects offered to Japanese corporations were ranked according to the construction engineering condition: the worse this condition is, the higher the ranking. It was also based on an investment to reduce one tonne of CO2 emissions: the lower the cost of the investment per tonne of CO2 emissions to be reduced, the higher the position. The second question: 'The number of beneficiaries and the reduction in CO2 as a result of the investment were one of the key criteria in the decision to finance. How does the resource in RMK's buildings meet these criteria? ' The State sold AAUs in two stages for the measure to renovate public buildings. First, it was the objects of the state and later, after the agreement of the buyers, also the objects of the municipalities. Options were also made in two groups: first the objects of the state and later the objects presented by the municipalities. The number of beneficiaries was used as a criterion for municipal objects, as sustainability is often at risk. In addition, the regional principle was followed in the selection process. According to the cost, 50% was divided equally between the five regions and the distribution is based on the number of inhabitants of the region. RMK's objects did not compete with the local government objects. RMK's objects competed with national objects and the criterion was the technical state of construction and the size of the investment, which goes to reduce CO2 emissions by one tonne. The third question: 'Why is a classified number, or CO2 savings for a particular building? " The financial information of the agreement with the Japanese corporation is confidential at the request of the Japanese party. Consequently, the expected CO2 savings for a particular object are also confidential. Given the exact reduction in CO2 emissions, it is possible to calculate the total value of this contract on the basis of one of the items covered by the contract. That's what the quota buyer doesn't want under any circumstances. Question 4: Is it reasonable to make all investments through the RKAS? ' Very reasonable, is my answer. RKAS, I specify, does not perform construction works, but organises procurement, project management and the assessment and reporting of CO2 emissions reductions after construction. The use of CO2 resources is strictly limited in time. They must, as we know, have been used by the end of 2012. Eligibility is subject to strict conditions. The role of the RKAS is to mitigate as much of the risks of the construction market as possible. The RKAS has done a very good job, so far no CO2 procurement has been challenged. In 2011, the number of RKAS procurements is higher than in the previous 10 years. The second stage of quota sales was also very successful because Japanese corporations were very fond of one central investment manager. This was probably the only way to manage the implementation of this money in time. Question 5: "How much did the RKAS pay for the procurement and other programme-related activities? ' The agreements with Japanese corporations are a condition of confidentiality. Therefore, it is not possible to disclose a specific monetary number. As a percentage, up to 3.5% of resources will be paid to the RAAS to organise, obtain the information needed for reporting, monitor CO2 emissions and other accompanying activities. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U21	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U22	Now, ladies and gentlemen, after the hammer hit, you can register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U23	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of my speech, I will make a proposal to the Board of the Riigikogu, but I am now asking such a question. Do you think a member of the Riigikogu needs to know everything, such as mathematics? That's clearly a rhetorical question, isn't it? We understand that. Even if a member of the Riigikogu thinks that 7 x 8 is about 65, it is purely his personal matter. But it becomes a thing for all of us when he opens his mouth and says that 7 x 8 is about 65. Not only mathematics is such an area that could be felt, but also geography is such an area. Sometimes life has gone so far that not everyone knows the subject well. But if he shows this ignorance, it's gonna hurt all of our renomes, it's gonna affect all of us's authority. Some time ago, the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu in Narva gave a speech which has now been published in Delfi, Postimees, MK-Estonijas, etc. I'm talking about Mrs. Randjärv. He announced in this speech that the geographical location of Narva had a strategic significance for the whole of the European Union, because Narva is the easternmost city in the European Union. If you pick up the map of Europe and look at it, not even very carefully, you will notice that the most eastern cities are actually located in a completely different place. There is an island such as Cyprus (I will explain, just in case, that it is an island, that Mrs Randjärv can understand exactly), and there are several resort towns that are clearly more eastern. If you look north on the map, you will notice that Cyprus is not the only country with cities east of Narva. For example, Bulgaria, a beautiful place along the Danube, has a resort town in Sabla. It's a small town, all right. Let's look higher, Constanta, located in Romania, is about the size of Tallinn and is located east of Narva. All right, man may not know southern Europe. There are a lot of problems with that. Two and a half years ago, our President also said something about a tunnel between Italy and Spain. In view of the fact that there are still about 500 kilometres of southern France between Italy and Spain, this was a very strange story, but that is it. Let's look right up here. Our neighborhood is Finland. Not knowing Northern Europe is already a disgrace. Who hasn't heard of such cities as Lappeenranta, Imatra, Savonlinna, Kuusamo, Joensuu. These are large cities, some of them are university towns, there are airports, there are all there, and all these cities are east of Narva. For me, of course, it would be very pleasant if it were true that Narva is the most eastern city in the European Union. But in Narva, everyone who's studied geography in even eighth grade knows that's not the case. The vice-president may not know that the border bridge in Narva was already repaired in January and everything is fine, but if we are talking about looking at the bridge that needs repairing, something has been overstretched. But as far as geography is concerned, I would like to address the Riigikogu Board with a proposal. Since we're taking language teachers here, how about taking a geography teacher? Then there would be no such thing as an apocalypse that anyone who knows the same geography would laugh at just a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-14_U24	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.30 p.m.
