ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start the briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 41 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 60 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U2	The first question is put by Mr Viktor Vassilyev to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! Up until 1999, old-age pensions were calculated on the basis of the basic component, the seniority and the share of the insurance, the latter being directly dependent on the seniority. Since 1999, the so-called "pension year' has been calculated on the basis of the person's social security contributions. However, for those for whom social contributions have been paid on an average salary, the amount of the national old-age pension is linked to an annual coefficient of 1, those whose salary has been below the average will receive a lower figure, but those for whom the social contributions have been paid on a minimum wage will have to work for three years to obtain one pension year with a coefficient of 1. Prime Minister, does your sense of justice permit a situation where the system of calculating old-age pensions is only beneficial for people earning average and higher wages, depriving the lower-wagers of the opportunity to cope normally during their retirement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U4	Thank you. In Estonia, about 20 billion kroons per year are paid (or paid) for pensions. At present, an amount of the same order of magnitude is paid in euro. The Estonian pension system is very clearly equal to pensioners. This means that those pensioners who have ever received more wages and also paid more social tax will receive a relatively lower pension than those who have received less wages and paid less social tax. Our pension system is clearly equal in nature. This system is not entirely proportionate. There's a taste of how to divide these coefficients. If you say that this level playing field is fundamentally wrong and pensions should be paid in proportion to the social tax paid, then the approach should be completely different. If you claim that the current system is less equal, then the coefficients should be revised differently. But the fact remains: no matter how the 20 billion is distributed, the 20 billion will remain 20 billion, the amount will not increase if the economy does not grow. I believe that the current system is fair and that it is a good one. True, I admit that some find it difficult to understand these coefficients and why these coefficients are ultimately good for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U5	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! The pension coefficient 1 is linked to the average salary. The average wage, however, is a statistical indicator. This does not mean that the average Estonian will receive an average salary. The average wage is made by a very high-wage minority, such as the heads of state companies, high officials, including you, the good Prime Minister, and even myself, the average member of the Riigikogu. Data on personalised social tax in recent years show that 70% of insured people receive below average wages. If under-average earners were to take into account pension years with a factor of 1, this would not worsen the situation of those who have done better in their lives by raising pension pillars and other assets. However, Mr Prime Minister, what do you think of the possibility of making the pension scheme an annual coefficient so that it favours those who need more help, but not those who can manage themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U7	Thank you. I believe that, if you think a little further, you will also come to the conclusion that it is not possible to pay an over-average pension to all Estonian pensioners. Part gets more, part gets less. This is also the case when these coefficients are changed in any way. Perhaps I do not consider the ideas you have proposed to be reasonable (if it is passed on in the first place) because I believe that every taxpayer must have an interest in raising their funds in the pension pillar and paying the highest possible social tax in order to get a higher pension. If this interest is taken away, we are back in Soviet time, and everyone has more or less the same pension. I don't think you want it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U8	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I have been thinking about this for quite a while and I think that the growing gap between rich and poor in our society is now emerging also in the case of pensioners who have lived most of their lives in social formations where it was not particularly possible to become rich. Prime Minister, you have promised to place Estonia among the five richest countries. I think he's already priced. My question is: who are you taking with you into the bright future that is allowed there, when workers under average pay become old people under average pensions, and most old people are like that? Actually, it was a rhetorical question. I ask you differently: Mr Prime Minister, would you personally live off the average pension in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U10	Thank you. I think that a member of the Riigikogu should not go on talking about the market, but a member of the Riigikogu should base his claims on facts, i.e. use statistical material as an argument rather than what women have said on the market. The talk about the increasing stratification in Estonia is wrong. Estonia had the fastest equivalent of income in the European Union between 2000 and 2009. In Estonia, the upper and lower income quintile differed 6.3 times in 2000 and so far the difference has narrowed to 5,0. This means that we are exactly averaged in terms of the equality of income in the European Union, i.e. the average difference between the upper and lower income quintile in the European Union is exactly the same way 5,0. In the European Union, there are only three Member States where income distribution disparities have decreased over the last ten years, while income inequality has declined the most in Estonia compared to other Member States of the European Union. In all the other Member States of the European Union, disparities in income distribution have deepened over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. First of all, my colleague, Marika Tuus.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! I think that you, too, were most exposed to the issue of unfair pension index before the elections with voters. After all, the amount of wages should not be an indicator of the contribution to work on the basis of which the pension is calculated. But I would like to say to the previous topic that the average pension in Estonia (maybe you do not know the exact number) is now 290 euros. It is also known that one pension per year is paid by a pensioner to pay for medicine, prescription medications. It's probably even higher. Pensions have been frozen for a very long time. For example, the average pension in Finland is 18800 kroons. Why have you frozen your pensions, as was done during Laari's government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U13	Thank you. Your claim that the amount of salary cannot be the basis for calculating the pension is strange in itself. I say in return, what can it be? Is it really a desire for a Soviet system where everyone was given equal, so great that any market economy approach should also be lost when calculating pensions? I don't know where you've taken such an average pension. As far as I know, the average pension in Estonia is 302 euros. But it will remain the subject of further disputes. At meetings with voters (there were so many meetings), I found that my voters did not stand out as if they had thought that hocus pocus with some coefficients could make the 20 billion kroons that are paid for pensions in Estonia during the year. Nor did my constituents agree that our pension system could in future be less equal in nature. Of course, they did not want our pension system to take into account at all the amount of salary received by a person during his or her working years or the social tax paid on that salary. Obviously, all of this is explained by the fact that we have completely different voters. My constituents are intelligent. They have understood how the pension system works. I suggest you explain more to your constituents how the system works, not give hope that it will be possible to increase it to 20 billion by juggling.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, Since we have six previously registered questions today, the last on-the-spot question on this subject can now be asked. Colleagues Inara Luigas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I want to fix you a little bit. We are not talking about equality of pensions here, but rather about fairness in receiving pensions. The Centre Party also launched a bill to make the pension system fairer. When we dealt with it in the Riigikogu, a member of the Reform Party who made a report on behalf of the Commission said that people were guilty if they could not sell themselves better and earn better wages. That's how he ended the whole thing. It was very hurtful for people living in Southeast Estonia, for example. There will never be equal pay in Harjumaa and South-East Estonia. Wages and jobs in the territory of Estonia are very different. Do you really maintain the view that pensions should not be fairer? Have you even talked to the Minister for Regional Affairs to take measures and make such improvements in regional policy so that a fairer pension can be guaranteed in Estonia as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U16	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U17	Thank you. I am convinced that the current pension system is fair; it is a system of equal character. Those who received a higher salary receive a relatively lower pension than those who received a lower salary. The current intercourse is quite fair. I am convinced that if you were to conduct a public survey now and ask the people whether they want to reduce their dependence on the size of their wages, you would not be able to answer clearly. The current system is sufficiently equal in nature; it is fair. Yes, emotionally speaking, people have the feeling that the coefficient is too much. But if, for example, one person has a factor of 0.5 and one person has a coefficient of 1.0, then this deficiency can easily be eliminated so that both factors are increased twice, i.e. those who currently have a coefficient of 0.5, in future the coefficient will be 1,0, and those who currently have a coefficient of 1.0 will in future be the coefficient of 2.0. I assure you that this 20 billion kroons per year would then be distributed exactly as it is now distributed, although some have a coefficient of 1.0 and no more than 0.5.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U18	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U19	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U20	Minister of the Interior! First of all, I would like to congratulate you for making the fight against organised crime one of the priorities of your ministry. I hope that there will be a breakthrough in this area, and the figures will be showing it very soon. Today, however, I would like to ask you about the safety of your residents, specifically about accident deaths. The number of road deaths has shown a positive downward trend in recent years, but this year has started to be rather worrying as the number of road deaths increased by 73% in the first quarter. Nearly 9.5% more people died in the fires in 2010 than in 2009. Bad weather conditions have been mentioned as the cause, but the two deaths in the last week cannot be attributed to it. Hence my question: is there an urgent action plan in the area of your ministry for the short term to stop this negative trend and to make the number of accidents go down again?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U21	Thank you, good questioner! Good Andres! You brought out interesting figures. You can see that you have a very large potential for a Member of Parliament. You pointed out the number of people killed in fires in 2009 and 2010 and the number of people killed in traffic in 2010 and 2011. In order to give Members an overview of the current state of affairs, I would say that there is currently a 10% reduction in the number of people killed in the fires compared to the same time in 2010, which sounds more beautiful than three fewer. But speaking in darker shades, it has to be said that 28 people have actually died in traffic (at the beginning of last year there were 20). At the same time, 8 people have left this year to drown, but at the same time last year there were 12 drowning deaths. We could say that there are positive trends here and there are more negative trends. When it comes to traffic in particular, 2010 was an exceptional year. Then in Estonia, in fact, the year 1940 was repeated in a good way, because so few deaths have been lost since then. Experts and statisticians still refer to the three-year average, which is about 100 deaths in Estonia per year. This does not mean that the aim is to achieve these indicators again. Long-term measures have, of course, been taken years ago and we will continue to do so. I'll come to your question. I want to answer that again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U22	The first point to be clarified, Mr Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U23	Good Minister of the Interior! You, however, have a great sense of ministerial experience and of the ability to drive over a Member of Parliament. Nevertheless, I ask: what is the action plan so that this number does not increase to make people feel safer on the street? Does the police have any chance of reducing this number if there are fewer patrols on the streets?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U24	Thank you, Andres! I am certainly not going over any honourable Members. I'm never gonna do that. I just pointed out that there were a number of issues in your question. Even now, you referred to street patrols, even though the real point of your question was traffic. Road safety programme exists in Estonia. There are quite precise measures in place. Firstly, road surveillance has been significantly enhanced in recent years, and as a result, in particular, the number of road deaths and road injuries has decreased. A very important part is, of course, in the field of prevention, in the field of communication. This applies in particular to young people, minors and also to those who receive initial driving licences. An extremely important step was taken a few years ago when a science-based approach to traffic surveillance was introduced, for example, in relation to security equipment. Three or four years ago, the lack of security equipment in the vehicle was relatively light-handed. However, the studies showed that the lack of security equipment is one of the main prerequisites for the death of an accident, i.e. those who do not use security equipment will die if incidents occur. Traffic surveillance began to pay more attention to this, which resulted in more security equipment being used. This, in turn, resulted in a reduction in road deaths and also in the number of injured.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U25	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U26	Thank you. Since I understand that these are all long-term measures and there is nothing urgent to do to change this figure, I am asking about other accidents. It's gonna be a big summer soon. Last year we scored the number of drowning deaths both in Estonia and internationally. As the weather reports say, we'll be waiting for the same summer this year. But it doesn't matter. It is important whether the Ministry of the Interior has any plan to meet the summer and reduce the death of Estonian residents in water bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U27	Thank you for your question. Yes, 2010 was tragic because there were unfortunately many drowning deaths compared to 2009 and earlier years. This year, as I said, has begun better. To date, fewer drowned people than by the same time in 2010, i.e. 8 persons this year versus 12 in 2010. A comprehensive information and prevention programme has been launched to reduce drowning deaths. Its purpose is to make people aware of who are going to spend a pleasant time at the watercourses so that they don't go in the water with their head drinky. A large number of those drowned in 2010 were drunk. All those people who, above all, during the summer months, as well as early spring months, spend their free time at the watercourses have an important role to play here. People should be more careful not to overestimate their abilities. Of course, it is also necessary to provide information in schools, minors and young people. The Rescue Board and the Ministry of the Interior have provided internal resources to improve people's awareness and the willingness of volunteers to prevent incidents.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U28	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U29	Accident deaths, however, are relatively small absolute numbers, where deviations are more or less within the limits of statistical error, as it seems to me. But my colleague wants to know whether it is possible and whether you intend to develop some sort of rapid response in the form of an extra-plan paper and what this paper should be like. That's my question. I would add, as a comment, that, for example, I would not be able to make this type of paper on drownings, because in winter, the life jacket is not worn and swims ashore because of being drunk because the human body is warmer. It's exactly the other way around in the summer. Can these two causes of death be integrated into a single plan, or is such a rapid plan technically possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U30	Thank you! Andres asked about several areas: traffic, drowning deaths, fires and the safety of people on the streets, or patrolling. What, for example, are the last steps taken by the honourable Parliament? On 1 September 2010, a new rescue law entered into force, which actually gives the voluntary sector, or society, a significantly greater role, as well as the right to help those people in the community who are in a dangerous situation. At the beginning of this year, a new law on relief police has also entered into force, which has given the police an excellent opportunity to involve more volunteers as relief police officers in order to maintain order and monitor compliance with the rule of public order in sparsely populated areas. For the first time in Estonia, assistant police officers and volunteer rescuers have gained legal competence to act independently. This is a very big step forward and progress. This certainly also means a faster response, as the response can be within the community, especially in scattered areas, villages, towns and cities. I think this is a very specific matter to which we are paying attention. Rapid response, especially with regard to drowning deaths, is being handled by the Rescue Board all the time. He's getting ready for more drowning deaths. As I said, alcohol is a significant part of people overestimating their abilities, going into the water and drowning. That's how it happens. The question now is how we can prevent all of this, raise people's awareness, and knock a little bit on the conscience of people who are intoxicated with people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U31	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U32	The next question is for my colleague, Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, the Minister of Agriculture, to Mrs Tuksole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! On 5 May s. a. The Government approved an amendment to the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, which limits tax incentives for specially labelled fuels. Farmers are known to lose the opportunity to use specially labelled fuel. Please tell me what the government's thoughts are to make up for this'removal'!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U34	Thank you, my good colleague. Indeed, it is agreed in the coalition agreement that the special-marked fuel system will be reviewed. I hope that in the distant future, the painting of fuel in the Republic of Estonia will stop at all, and then bureaucracy will decrease, state spending will decrease, as well as expenditure on monitoring, which is no longer necessary. But when it comes to specially labelled fuel for farmers, it is basically agreed that it will disappear as an advantage and will be compensated to farmers from the state budget, i.e. the same system will be restored that operated in the Republic of Estonia until 2000. For farmers, the positive result is that the use of fuel becomes free, i.e. farmers no longer have to do only agricultural work with preferential fuel, but they can do all the work, it is snow pushing, transporting or whatever. So there's no need to change the fuel and clean the equipment. As I said, control bodies will be freed from very unpleasant and costly supervision. These are goals. Negotiations between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture have begun. What exactly are the technical nuances, I can't say today, but I know the subjects that come into question. They're pretty voluminous and complicated. But the goal is in any case positive for the farmer. We also get rid of the problem that arises every winter when farmers do other jobs with preferential fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U35	No further questions. Please, colleagues, don't wait so long. Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Sorry for the delay! Thank you for your answer, Minister of Agriculture. But it is known that the government does not yet have such a replacement plan. In your reply, you spoke about farmers, but perhaps you will explain which producers are covered by this compensation mechanism, which you consider to be part of a need-based definition.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U37	Thank you. The compensation mechanism should concern all those who currently benefit from this advantage. I am thinking of the farmers and, of course, the fisheries sector. The transition to the new system will not limit or reduce the amount of the benefit, but will simply technically switch to another system. So all those who are now involved are farmers or livestock farmers, operating in shelter areas or fisheries, will also be covered by a new compensation mechanism. There are two directions for discussion. Firstly, negotiations with the Ministry of Finance on how the Tax and Customs Board will receive information about the wide range of beneficiaries, the level of benefit that will be granted to one farmer or another fisheries undertaking, how exactly this correct number will reach the Ministry of Finance and how the compensation will reach the applicant. This is one big round of discussions. The second round of discussions discusses how the amount of compensation will be calculated. We know that agricultural expenditure is very different. Fuel costs depend, for example, on whether vegetable farming is carried out or simply on the maintenance of long-term grassland. These grounds must be negotiated with farmers. It's a pretty complicated and voluminous job. But I believe that we can do this because there is a general positive expectation and willingness to negotiate in the sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U38	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I wish you every success in developing these foundations. Can you talk about deadlines today? What time have you taken into account when developing these compensation mechanisms?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U40	It would be ideal if the new system were to start on 1 January 2012. That is the goal we have set. I do not want to question this deadline in any way, but if this does not work, the farmer will certainly not be caught by the gears, because then the transition to the new system will take place at a later date. But it's still happening, so when the current system is abolished, the new one is already ready. There's no difference. Such a situation, in which we abolish the existing advantage but have not yet introduced a new compensatory mechanism, will certainly not arise. We will make efforts to reach an agreement by 1 January 2012. But it is not only up to the government, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, but, as I said, it is very important here to reach an agreement between producers in order to find consensus or consensus. I can't tell you how long it's gonna take.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U41	One issue registered on the spot. Mr Lembit Kaljuvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U42	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! It's about fuel excise. You spoke as Minister for Agriculture about the part of agriculture, but when you look at this regulation, you can see that there is a relatively small part of agriculture involved here. As a member of the government, how do you feel about the intention to abolish and eliminate mines, railways, shipping benefits? Do you think that compensatory mechanisms should be there or only in agriculture?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U43	Thank you. In Estonia, one of the largest circles of beneficiaries of the specially labelled fuel bonus is in the European Union at all. I do not know another country in the European Union where this target group would be so large that, in addition to construction and mining, it would include forestry, railroad, fishermen and fishermen, small boiler houses and some other target groups. The aim is to tighten the circle of those who are encouraged so that it is as it is in other Member States of the European Union. We have agreed that the bonus will certainly remain for farmers, fishermen and also for small boiler houses, or individual boiler houses. This will bring us more or less to the level of the other Member States of the European Union. I believe that is basically correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U44	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U45	The next question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U46	Prime Minister! What happened in Keila's nursing hospital cannot be seen as a case by case. In fact, a number of complaints have been received from the patients' representative society across Estonia, similar to what happened at Keila Hospital. The fact that Andres Peri, who led Keila's care hospital, was released from work by the PERH Board is commendable, but this cannot be considered as a solution to the care treatment problems in Estonia. At the moment, the Health Board has a supervisory function, but it is a formal one, because only papers are checked, but not on the part of the care provider, not on the substance. So that older ones do not have to entertain anxiety and sleep at night, the disorder must be eliminated quickly. My first question: how is it planned to ensure the quality of services in care care care?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U47	Thank you. What I saw on "The Spectator," I'm talking about Keila's hospital, of course, saddened me. However, I call on everyone, including you, not to generalise one case. The Germans say: einmal ist keinmal. It is wrong to draw statistical conclusions from one case. I want to believe that the quality of our care treatment is considerably better now than it was years ago. This is based on the knowledge that the number of beds in care treatment has increased very rapidly in Estonia. This is also underpinned by the knowledge that the amount of resources spent on care has increased very rapidly in recent years. A specific case certainly requires a very thorough analysis. The question is not whether a doctor has behaved well or badly, the question is whether a particular doctor has committed a crime or not, because 'The Spectator' was able to conclude that he had taken bribes. But it's clearly a crime. I do not want to reduce in any way the meaning and weight of a particular case by describing this general situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U48	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U49	Actually, my question was much wider. I didn't want to stop at the Keila hospital case as an isolated case. I referred to the patients' representative society, which has discussed a number of similar complaints that have come across Estonia. Hence my second question: how is the effective and independent resolution of patients' complaints ensured in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U50	The law. Regrettably, in the case of Keila Hospital, which was seen on television, the complaints of patients or their relatives to the institutions that should deal with them were not reported. This does not mean, of course, that it was wrong to address the press. You can always contact the press, but first and foremost you should contact specific doctors, department managers, then go to the hospital's management, then the hospital's board, then the ministry and, of course, there are independent inspections to deal with such matters. For patients, good protection should be guaranteed in its entirety, the whole system, including the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U51	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U52	Thank you for your answer. In my opinion, service providers, planners and funders cannot in any way be complaint solvers, because they all have their own interests and so cannot protect the patient. The third question is: is the development plan for care care developed by the Ministry of Social Affairs also intended to be completed or only for reading and learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U53	Thank you. To fill in, of course. But I cannot agree with your statement, as if among doctors or in the medical system as a whole, there is a total circular guarantee that there is no effect on the boss, and nothing will help anyway. If that were the case, I do not think that our legislators could look at this situation calmly. They should then intervene in this situation by legislative means. Luckily, things aren't that bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U54	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Mr Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! The main ideology of Estonian health care reform was to reduce the role of active care and the release of resources to make care treatment more important. To this end, in 2002, the Government of the Republic, if I am not mistaken, confirmed the development plan for the care network, which type of care needs to be developed in rural areas, how many hospitals have to be located, how home visits have been organised, etc. This plan was intended to be implemented until 2015. There is quite a short period of time to do so, but a rather small percentage of the plan has been met. At the moment, it seems to me that the development plan for the care network is not being implemented. Will it be changed, will it be enforced and who will be responsible if it is not complied with?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U56	Thank you. I'm saying the opposite. The development plan has been completed and figures speak of it. For example, in 2003, we had 976 care beds, while in 2010 we had 1557. On the basis of the same development plan, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) also allocated funds for the creation of care beds. There's going to be more 878. Perhaps when compared to the number of beds available, the number of beds for care care will increase significantly, largely thanks to the European Union taxpayer's money. Together with our own funding, we spend an amount of 700 million kroons (I speak in kroons because, when the development plan was made, these amounts were in kroons) on adding beds for care care care and renovating existing beds, i.e. renovating hospital buildings. That's a considerable amount. It must also be remembered that we have increased the financing of care treatment from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund every year. The Health Insurance Fund has set itself the objective of increasing the financing of care treatment by 10% every year until 2015, which is a much faster pace than the growth rate of health care funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U57	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U58	The next question is from my colleague, Kalle Laanet, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I must sincerely admit that I do not envy you, because the tasks that exist in the field of internal security are quite serious, especially with regard to internal security staff and the performance of specific functions. Today's Eesti Päevaleht tells us that cutbacks leave 27 commandos unviable for half a year, and we have read the Minister of Finance's statement that the salaries of public sector employees will not rise. These include people working in the field of internal security. How do you plan to ensure that people want to stay in the field, and how do you plan to motivate them if there's no extra money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U60	Thank you for your question. First of all, the preparation and planning of the 2012 budget has begun. It is known to reach negotiations between the Ministry of Finance and ministers in August. We hope that Parliament will have the budget for next year in September, as it has traditionally been. It is clear that the state has little money and that it can only be gained from tax revenues. Over the years, the Ministry of the Interior has also focused very much on external aid. We have received a great deal of support from external aid programmes and measures to improve technical equipment in particular. Maintaining motivation concerns both the Ministry of the Interior and several other ministries, where the existence of motivated people is extremely important. I think that society as a whole has not come out of the economic crisis, not from the private sector, but from the public sector. We're still in trouble. But it looks like there's more light at the end of the tunnel than a few years ago. We intend to do everything we can to keep people motivated. The Riigikogu also amended the Police and Border Guard Act in February, if you remember. Kalle remembers as a member of the previous composition. Involvement of volunteers is important and, of course, opportunities within the sector are important. No ministry is finally ready, there is always room for improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U61	Please, Mr Kalle Laane, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U62	Thank you. How do you assess the ability of the Police and Border Guard Board to plan the use of money? Last year, the Minister of the Interior had to justify the so-called Masupäevs repeatedly before the Riigikogu and the public, but at the end of the year it turned out that the salary of 30 million kroons had not been used. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U63	I see the former Minister of the Interior is shaking his head. You can continue this debate peacefully in Parliament's corridors. The merger of the Police and Border Guard Board at the beginning of 2010 was, in my opinion, a very important step. This saved a significant amount of taxpayers' money, in particular on support services. But it is clear that it takes time for the Police and Border Guard Board to operate in a oiled way. This office has been working for quite a short time. Naturally, the processes taking place at the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as under the strategic direction of the Ministry of the Interior, aim to make the use of each kroon as transparent as possible, as thoughtful as possible. These amounts must be allocated to the priorities. These are the fight against organised crime, to which the previous questioner kindly referred, all that relates to our external borders, and, of course, the security of people in their home country, in the streets, in communities. This is why the maximum involvement of community resources, or volunteers, is intended. I will briefly say that the Police and Border Guard Board is becoming an increasingly thoughtful and functioning organisation every day. We will also do everything in 2011 to ensure that spending money, even one or two kroons, is thoughtful and transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U64	Please, Mr Kalle Laane, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U65	Thank you. I thank you for the answers you, of course, as an experienced politician, can give very well. But you've stressed several times that we have passed laws that give volunteers greater rights to participate, let's say, in certain processes in society. But we also know that participation in processes also costs something, it needs extra money. Do you think it's possible to get some extra money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U66	Yes, I am of the opinion that there is room for additional funding for volunteering. For example, the funds given to voluntary rescuers in 2011 have increased, one part of which, of course, on the basis of Parliament's decision. Circa EUR 350000 was distributed to voluntary rescue teams. As we know, Estonia is currently in a position of 50: 50, or approximately 83, of the professional rescue commandos that are publicly financed, and one more, or 84, of the volunteer commandos. There are basically a lot of them. In general, in the developed European countries, the number of public-funded rescue commandos is less than in Estonia, i.e. the proportion of volunteer commandos is higher. This shows that the involvement of voluntary rescuers can be made much better, more thoughtful and more effective. That's what we do. As far as the auxiliary police are concerned, the auxiliary police are involved on a voluntary basis. These men and women come out of their own free will and spend their free time. The technical resources they need to carry out their activities come from the Police and Border Guard Board. These funds are much less than for voluntary rescuers. The technical means of volunteer rescuers are known to be relatively expensive, they have personal equipment and technical equipment used to solve rescue incidents, or on site. The resources available to relief officers are considerably lower. We now have 2 000 auxiliary police officers, and I very much hope that this number will increase in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U67	Now the questions registered on the spot. First of all, Mr Järvi.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U68	Thank you very much, Mr President. During Question Time today, we heard, and we also know that I think it is the case in all countries that there is never enough money. I dare say, in the opinion of my fellow officials, perhaps rather scandalously, that if I was asked as an artist, whether culture or internal security, I would say, of course, internal security. But about ten years ago, when I was not in politics, there was no minister, Estonia was curated by a former Kiel police chief like Wolf Röper, who brought us every possible help. He always complained that every time he had made a deal with a man, when he came back, the next guy was banging. Now this is no longer the case, which means that the Republic of Estonia has completed it in its own way. Now, as if in the situation of being ready for this, if we are also in the European Union, I would like to ask whether this mentioned external aid is decreasing. Is it now behind the lobbying power of the Ministry of the Interior (as a representative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I know that this ability is very poor in Estonia at all) whether it is possible to negotiate additional training opportunities, for example, which in fact would significantly increase motivation even in spite of small wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U69	Thank you, Raivo! As you know, the external aid that comes for training is the kind of aid that comes most easily. As we know, countries that need Estonia's help and perhaps experience are already addressing us with the wish that we help them. And who do we offer? I guess it's your experts, your trainers, to send them to countries mostly east and elsewhere for European money. There are always tools and opportunities for training. However, the main and significantly higher financial needs in the area of internal security are related to technical equipment. Technology is evolving in the world. For example, the technique used in organised crime is also modernised. It is clear that the country must keep up with this. I would say that the country should be much ahead of us. It is not possible that our ability to fight organised crime would be left behind by a lack of technical means. It simply means that we cannot detect certain hidden crimes. We cannot allow that. We've involved a lot of foreign aid in the Ministry of the Interior. I think the Ministry of the Interior has been quite successful here. The Rescue Board has received pollution control equipment (160 million kroons), the Police and Border Guard Board has two helicopters, a pollution response ship is about to be completed, which was so-called in Riga in May, and the eastern border radar systems, border guards, IT systems etc. But external aid is not all technology and equipment, be it alkometers, speed meters, forensics, rescue equipment, weapons, personal protection equipment or technical equipment to fight organised crime. That's what we have to bet on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U70	Now probably the most recent issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of the Interior! I hope that you have had enough time to settle in and you can answer the question of the Ministry of Interior's position on the transfer of the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Virumaa. Its importance for the development of the region has been discussed by the county governor, representatives of local authorities and others. The question is: will you personally support it? I also ask in the context of the budget: do you have any figures and can you tell me how much this could cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U72	Thank you for your question. The coalition agreement states that we are considering moving the National Defence Academy to Ida-Viru County. That's what's going on right now. It is no secret to anyone that three locations are considered: the current location on Kase Street in Tallinn, the much-spoken and possible location discussed several times in the previous government in Muraste and now Ida-Virumaa. This analysis is actually at an early stage. We are more or less aware of the arguments, pros and cons concerning the comparison between Kase Street and Muraste. Of course, money, or how much it costs as a whole, will play an important role in this consideration. For example, it is known that in the case of Muraste, we have to take into account, compared to Kase Street in Tallinn, that we have to find additional resources for the road network, which is relatively costly in financial terms. In Ida-Virumaa, it is likely that several locations will be considered, this place will be a little more near the Russian border or rather on the Tallinn side. I think we'll be done with this analysis by autumn. Then you have to make a decision at some point. I think we will do this as openly and naturally as possible by involving communities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U73	Thank you, Minister of the Interior. I will conclude on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for asking questions. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister and ministers for their reply. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U74	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the fifth working week session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, I call on the speaker, the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U75	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U76	Thank you. Please, colleague Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U77	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! I will hand over to the Riigikogu the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Announcement of a Member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund' initiated by the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U78	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted two drafts. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed the leading committees to them: a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the members of the Council of the National Library of Estonia' submitted by the Committee on Culture; a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the members of the National Opera Council' submitted by the Committee on Culture; a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council' submitted by the Committee on Culture, the leading committee of which is the Committee on Culture; in the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. a draft law amending the Youth Work Act and the Social Tax Act, initiated on 9 May, of which the commission is the Committee on Culture; the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel, initiated on 10 May, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment to the Income Tax Act, initiated on 10 May, of which the commission is the Finance Commission, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Aviation Act, initiated on 10 May, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated on 10 May, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Aliens Act and other laws, initiated on 10 May, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. 10 May presented a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic, whose commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, to the Government of the Republic. May 24, 18 a.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The plenary session of the Estonian Group of the Interparliamentary Union (IPU) will be held in the Chamber today after the end of the session, during which the IPU Bureau will be elected. Please, let's do the presence check! 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Let's clarify the agenda. Yesterday, due to the end of the plenary session, the debate on the key national issue 'Energy savings' was unfinished. The presentation of the Economic Committee was not submitted, neither did the political groups or members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to participate in the negotiations. At the request of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu decided to continue this discussion as the first item on the agenda for today's session.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U79	First of all, I would like to ask Mr Kallas, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation. The duration of the report is up to 20 minutes and questions and answers can also be submitted within 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu can ask up to two oral questions within this item. And please pay attention: the questions that were asked yesterday, 10 May, will also be taken into account. In accordance with our custom, I propose to the Riigikogu that the representatives of the political groups first take the floor and then the members of the Riigikogu and the representatives of the committees. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U80	I have a procedural question. If I'd known today I could ask, maybe I would have kept my questions yesterday. I think it would be fairer to restore the procedure for two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U81	It should be taken into account that two questions can be asked under this item. Mr Kallas, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U82	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Life has evolved so that electricity, heat and fuels have an increasing role to play in our lives. If you take people's basic needs according to the Maslow pyramid, energy is necessary to meet our basic needs. In order to live in our climate, we need heat, cooking and preserving food is linked to electricity consumption, and even to access drinking water, we need electricity pumps. Neither can we satisfy the need for communication without energy. Electricity allows us to communicate by phone or Internet, to communicate face to face with acquaintances far away, but we usually need energy in the form of liquid fuels. All of this shows that it is unrealistic that our energy needs will decrease in the short term, but also in the long term. As regards the development of energy prices in the world, there is no good news that there are signs of energy depreciation. However, history has shown that there is also a positive side in energy crises, whether in production capacity or in price crises. If something gets more expensive, there's gonna be new suppliers. And any crisis will stimulate innovation. In the event of a shortage of assets, it will also be thought of saving the property. That is why the Committee on Economic Affairs has raised the issue of energy savings as an important national issue. Energy savings are also important because the competitiveness of the economy and of individual companies depends directly on it. The lower energy consumption is able to produce products and provide services, the greater the potential for such companies to compete with other similar products and services in the world. As the production and use of energy is generally a relatively anti-environmental activity, energy savings are generally accompanied by environmental protection. We all want to live in a clean environment without giving up the comforts we have become. The achievement of environmental savings, including through energy saving, is therefore only to be welcomed. I will start by repeating, just in case, what energy has been meant in the context of this report. This includes both electricity, heat and transport fuels. It is important to look at them in the collection in the context of energy savings. The Committee on Economic Affairs has heard a number of experts in the preparation of the debate on a key national issue. Experts from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Tallinn University of Technology, Eesti Energia, Elering, KredEx and Energy Salvest gave us a presentation. We listened to reports on energy saving opportunities in both heat and electro-energy, transport and networks, as well as opportunities for storing energy. What came out of those reports? 1. You can't save it if you don't know how much you're actually spending. It turns out that people's awareness of their energy consumption is very poor. There are great discrepancies between how many people think they are spending and how much they actually spend. Awareness-raising should therefore be started. 2. Energy savings in one area usually lead to an increase in energy demand in another. For example, heating houses and thereby reducing the consumption of heat energy will lead to an increase in electricity consumption, as a ventilation system is needed in insulated houses, which generally works with electricity. Or the introduction of electric cars, which significantly reduces the use of fuel in transport, increases electricity consumption. All in all, these activities make sense, however, because energy can still be saved in the collection, and this leads to savings in financial terms. Much has been said about achieving the European Union's renewable energy targets. Much less has been said about the European Union having an energy saving target of 20% by 2020. The European Union has stated that no Member State has much to show in this area at present. The competitiveness plan, endorsed by the Government of the Republic on 28 April 2011, has set an ambitious goal of maintaining final energy consumption at 2010 levels until 2020. I'd like to show you the chart on this, but somehow I can't handle it, the technique is failing. I'll just keep talking. Keeping final energy consumption at the same level requires limiting energy consumption, increasing energy efficiency and developing renewable energy solutions in all sectors. The country's competitiveness is increasingly affected by the energy intensity of the economy and the ability of different sectors to adopt new technologies while saving energy. Energy savings in Estonia have been promoted in almost all areas, but the emphasis and nature of the measures have been very different. Energy saving subsidies have mainly been targeted at households that have been developed with different measures to improve the energy performance of buildings. I guess it didn't make much sense taking my pictures, but what do I do? I thought I'd make it more interesting. Excise duties have been the main lever in the direction of energy use in transport. Fuel excise has been increased several times over the last 15 years. The current level of final energy consumption in the sectors and the forecast for the next ten years show that the biggest growth and the need for sectoral measures will be in industry, households and transport. Now I'd like to show you another picture, which, unfortunately, I can't. If you look at energy use in recent years by type of energy, you can see that the use of liquid fuel and electricity is on the rise, while the other species are in some decline. If you take the breakdown of energy use according to Statistics Estonia, then the highest energy use in 2009 is 37%! He was in a household. Now the third picture that you can even show. The high share of households in total energy consumption may, according to experts, be debatable, but we are based on the figures currently available. In turn, household energy use was divided into energy types, with the largest share of it being taken by biofuels by 34%. Now the first picture is that the target of keeping the final energy consumption level at 2010 levels until 2020 has been set. Here this slide shows how the share of electricity and liquid fuel consumption is on the rise and in the decline of other forms of energy. The next slide shows the distribution of energy use in Estonia. One graph shows the energy use in 2009 as a whole and the other shows the share of different energy sources in final household consumption. Biofuel accounts for the largest part, second, thermal energy is 27%, and third, car gasoline is 17%. What can be done more specifically in the area of energy savings? First, raising people's awareness. As mentioned earlier, people are often unaware of where and how much energy they consume and therefore do not know where and how much savings can be made. Therefore, people's awareness needs to be raised. There are a number of companies that offer energy audit services, but the state has launched a support programme at KredEx to help cover energy audit costs. The energy audit will enable you to identify your energy consumption and also to find opportunities for energy savings in different energy modes by improving the use of existing systems or reducing energy losses. Another problem with raising awareness is that there are many myths involved in energy saving. People simply do not know the basic savings opportunities or, for some inexplicable reason, the general view of the inadequacy of some savings measure has begun to spread. For example, it is often thought that if a device is in a standby state, it does not consume electricity, yet such equipment consumes a considerable amount of electricity. It is also thought that filament lamps are better than saving lamps because they give not only light but also heat. Such myths must be suppressed by the companies and organisations concerned. Now for energy savings in heat energy. Spending on heat is the highest in households, so it is the saving of this type of energy that can best be achieved financially. KredEx provides for grants to make apartment buildings more energy efficient and loans on favourable terms on the basis of revenues from the sale of allowances. That's what they talked about here for a very long time last night. At the same time, this energy saving programme gets caught up in the administration of apartment buildings in particular, and the costs associated with it are often feared. The materials provided to us by KredEx show that the average energy savings in houses after such insulation are made are 33.4%, and renovation in collection leads to both energy and money savings, although the consumption of electricity may increase the insulation of houses. Here's a slide on how the cost of a loan can affect the total cost of a house. It turns out very nicely that, in fact, in any case, this renovation is worth taking place. Since this KredEx grant can only be used until 30 November 2012, it is high time for the housing associations that have not yet dealt with it. It would be foolish if the money for this was simply not used. The main savings opportunities for electro-energy come from networks, which I am talking about separately, but also from improving the efficiency of the use of energy equipment, there is savings. This also has a great deal to do with raising people's awareness so that they know which equipment consumes less electricity, when it is more useful to use electrical equipment and how to combine them. In addition, there is great potential for R &amp; D to invent sufficiently innovative and usable energy storage methods to allow electricity to be purchased when it is cheap when a strong wind or a Norwegian hydroelectric power plant is blowing, and to be used when electricity is expensive on the market. In addition, on the basis of a report submitted by the Tallinn University of Technology to us, it is possible to achieve energy savings of up to 40% when optimising the use of equipment. Again: this requires raising people's awareness. A word on the nets. High energy savings in both heat and electro-energy are hidden in minimising network losses, which can be achieved in particular through the renovation of networks. The problem here is to bear the costs of renovation of networks, which may be burdensome in the short term, but it is also possible to use European Union subsidies in this area. On the side of the networks, more innovative solutions to which the whole world is moving must also be mentioned. These are so-called smart or intelligent networks. The smart grid is an electricity network capable of adapting to the behaviour and effects of all users, thus producers and consumers, in order to effectively ensure economically efficient and sustainable electricity supply. Essentially, this information means moving in both directions. Ideally, the operation of smart grids should lead to a reduction of energy consumption peaks. Consumer equipment is so smart that they can consume electricity when the price is the cheapest, i.e. essentially when others are not using electricity and the demand for electricity is therefore lower than the supply. According to the Bio Intelligence 2008 study, smart grids will reduce annual primary energy consumption in the European Union's energy sector by almost 9% by 2020, equivalent to 148 terawatt-hours of electricity, i.e. with financial savings of nearly €7.5 billion per year (as calculated in 2010 prices). Estimates of household consumption indicate that an average household can save 9% of electricity consumption and 14% of gas consumption. Fuels used in transport play a very important role in energy consumption. Energy savings in transport can be achieved through the following measures, and this is of course the most difficult thing to do in all these areas. Firstly, reducing transport needs, in particular through smart urban planning, so that the most important moves can be made without using the means of transport, so that schools, kindergartens and service institutions are as close as possible to habitats. Secondly, increasing the use of public transport. People start using public transport primarily when it is convenient, with sufficient frequency, is a decent and considerable alternative to car driving. In the case of public transport, more efficient use of electric means of transport should also be mentioned. Tallinn University of Technology has developed several useful projects in this field and such innovation should definitely be continued. Here it is appropriate to note that the state gives the city of Tallinn 45 million euros of the money from the sale of emission allowances for the purchase of new environmental and energy-saving trams. Thirdly, increasing the economics of vehicles. The introduction of electric cars will increase electricity consumption, but this growth will be very low in financial terms compared to the energy savings it generates, plus environmental protection. The money from the sale of quotas is intended to provide KredEx support to private individuals for the purchase of electric cars, and KredEx also acquires the charging infrastructure for electric cars. However, increasing the economy of cars also requires taking into account the energy labelling of cars and giving preference to more energy-efficient vehicles in use. Experts say that people will only start saving when energy spending increases beyond the limit of tolerance. But then it might be too late. It would make sense to start looking for and implementing energy saving measures now, as the country's competitiveness increasingly depends on the energy intensity of the economy and the ability of different sectors to achieve energy savings. Why not be a pioneer here for other countries? As I said earlier, in the field of energy saving, no Member State has yet shown much progress. I will conclude by reiterating the main recommendations that have been removed from the reports to increase energy savings. Firstly, to raise people's awareness of what energy savings are and where and how savings can be made. Secondly, continue implementing programmes aimed at thermal energy savings and encourage more people to make use of subsidies in this direction. Thirdly, to set a good example on the part of the state in energy saving. Fourthly, continue to reduce the energy losses of networks, both through the renovation of networks and through the further development of smart grids. Fifthly, encourage innovation in the area of energy storage. Sixthly, manage energy use in transport by reducing transport needs, using public transport and increasing the economics of vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U83	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas, for your presentation. Now the questions begin. Please, my colleague Lauri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U84	Thank you very much for your constructive and thorough presentation, good waitress. I have a question on the legislative side. I have observed that there are certain regulations in our legislative acts that help to save more energy. However, one specific technology is often preferred to others, which certainly should not be the case. Do you think that Estonian legislation already has opportunities to better and more thoroughly address the energy saving aspect?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U85	This issue may be reflected in the legislation in a very general way; energy savings are rather not taken into account very much. Even a good example: public procurement cannot actually take into account whether or not it is an energy-efficient application. In this sense, there is certainly room for improvement that has not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U86	Please, Mr Aas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U87	Thank you. We all know from the long-term experience of the world that energy consumption will also increase as prosperity grows. In this sense, we must swim like the laws of nature against the tide if we want to become richer and save energy at the same time. What are the basic factors that prevent people from saving energy now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U88	Surely one factor is the growing needs of humans. There is an increasing number of devices that consume energy, and there is an increasing number of comforts everywhere, all of which require energy to be used. And people probably don't think about saving the key yet. Another factor that does not generally favour energy savings in Estonia and elsewhere in the world is relatively cheap fuel and relatively cheap energy. This will certainly not contribute to savings if this pressure is not very felt. And the fact that there are few experts in this field in Estonia was clearly hatched from at least these reports. On the one hand, we are saying that there is a need to raise people's awareness, but on the other hand, there are relatively few people who can raise this awareness. They don't teach it at the university, they don't really make these experts. These may be the main factors.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U89	Please, Mr Gräzin, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U90	Good waitress! In general, we are, unfortunately, relatively irrational as consumers, as people. We're capricious, we don't mean, we can't, and it's actually terribly hard to manipulate. But about 40% of our energy use goes into production, it's an industry, etc., where there should be more rationality. There is one rational argument: price. If electricity is very expensive, then the cost of the product is high and the product is not competitive. But, apart from price, is there any way to achieve more savings for our industries, manufacturing, service, etc.? How can we achieve that we can rely not only on people but also on reasonable, intelligent companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U91	I'm sure there are options. One factor is, of course, the price, but if we look at the tables where Estonia figures, then we are not very energy efficient. The energy we're using, we're wasting it. Our production is not energy efficient. If you look at this whole energy consumption picture, in fact, the majority of households account for energy consumption. It was also a surprise for me when we listened to experts that the share of industry is relatively small compared to households. That's why I focused so much on households, which seems to be where the potential for savings exists. However, in the case of production, the aim is to make it more efficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U92	Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U93	Thank you. You talked a lot about the European Union's energy-saving programmes and their objectives. Is there anything analogous in other regions, geographical or political regions of the world? Are there such ambitious energy saving programmes?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U94	I don't know how to name remotely targeted programs right now. But energy savings are being dealt with by all those countries where energy prices are rising and it is visible that there is an energy crisis. And, in fact, it concerns all the countries of the world. But I can't exactly name the programs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U95	Please, Mr Erki Arrow, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U96	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! You stressed the high energy consumption of household customers and the additional electricity consumption related to ventilation. A few years ago, I spoke to a Finnish scientist who has studied ventilation systems for over 15 years. He said the most effective ventilation is opening the window. But I would like to ask you: did you also have to change some laws into a speech during the discussions of these working groups? For example, we are talking about electricity, but the very common problem in the city is that trees have been overgrown, but trees must not be restricted. The sun doesn't show up in the room, and for two months you have to consume more electricity. Did you have such a change of law at stake?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U97	First of all, I'm going to comment on the issue of ventilation. I really just gave it as an example, it was a very small part of the treatment. An expert at Tallinn University of Technology, for example, said that it is to release heat from the window when you open the window. This is not quite the right solution, it will certainly not lead to energy savings, rather it will increase energy consumption. But when it comes to changing laws, with all the experts, we talked about general tendencies. We did not go into such details that we would have talked about amending specific laws. We were talking about the problems that lie ahead and which, of course, may result from the need to amend certain laws, but this was not specifically mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U98	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U99	Thank you. Good waitress! As you mentioned in your report, there is the greatest potential in housing. That is true, but sometimes we just tend to think that there are housing companies, give them money, and the problem is solved. But I think you yourself have highlighted that the problem is a lack of information. The problem is, there are a million technologies, but no one knows whether one or the other works or not. At the same time, it is people's real money. People do not risk putting millions of kroons or hundreds of thousands of euros in projects they are not sure about. How do you think it would be possible to accelerate the implementation of energy savings in housing? Trying to change the regulation of housing associations or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U100	Raising awareness among housing associations will certainly help a lot. There are all kinds of consultants and other helpers who help to find the right projects. I agree that the problem is that the housing company must also make an investment, even if it receives support. Maybe that's one myth that should be suppressed so that the cost of money doesn't pay off. In fact, this investment will pay off in a relatively short time. There should be no fear of making this investment so that energy savings can ultimately be won. Raising awareness is therefore important, and I think KredEx is doing a commendable job in this regard. But surely this message should be widely disseminated so that housing companies can make rapid use of this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U101	Please, Mr Tõniste, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As the question round went a little bit into industry and production, I would like to ask: why do you think we still have so little industry, even though the price of electricity in Estonia is the cheapest in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U103	The problem is the small number of inhabitants, I think. In addition to cheap electricity, people are also needed to work in production. And the market is small. So maybe this isn't such an energy saving issue. Although the price of electricity is certainly one factor in all the decisions taken by companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U104	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U105	Thank you, Madam President. I still think that every day in a normal person's life, there's a big part of regulation called "the wallet." Today, it is not so thick that a person should not consider how much he spends on energy, how much he costs for one thing or another. That's one side. But the other side is whether this strategy you put forward does not conflict with the wishes of energy resource producers and energy sellers. They're more interested in selling. Does this not create a conflict of interest on the one hand and a price increase on the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U106	On the contrary! I rather think that if energy is to be saved, energy-producing companies will have to pull themselves together more in order to provide it better and more efficiently in order to make up for their costs. I don't think it's gonna raise the price to this degree. If we look at what is happening in other parts of the world, for example, the reduction in net losses will lead to lower prices, because heat will not blow up as much and electricity will not be lost, but will be exploited. In this sense, the tendency seems to be quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U107	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said that the Public Procurement Act does not currently allow the principles of environment and energy saving to be taken into account. Would the Committee on Economic Affairs not like to submit a draft law on this matter to us? In my opinion, the example of the public sector would be a relatively good start; the country is the largest organisation. For example, having such windows in the Riigikogu is certainly not a good example for our public.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U109	I absolutely agree that the country must set a good example. As far as these windows are concerned, the restrictions on heritage protection are likely to apply here and must be observed. But in the field of public procurement, we are already in the process of collecting comments on the Public Procurement Act. In my opinion, it is not right to change the law because of one particular problem. Rather, it is right to gather all the problems associated with this law and to redefine it at once. Constantly changing isn't right. But that's what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U110	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kallas, for your presentation and for answering the questions. Let's start the negotiations. As a representative of the Group of the Vakra Centre Party, I would like to ask for a speech from my colleague, Rainer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, for his presentation yesterday. I fully agree that the largest possible energy savings in Estonia come from buildings and residential buildings, especially from apartment buildings, where nearly 70% of the population lives. As a nõmmelas, however, I would like to highlight what my countryman, Mr Parts, said that although energy savings in private homes are lower, some cookie will still be found for them by 2014. I look forward to it and look forward to it! It has to be acknowledged that systemicity is the most important key to saving energy. Currently, the country does not have a comprehensive policy and implementing measures in this regard. National energy saving regulations and incentive measures are limited and non-systemic, awareness is low and there is a lack of information. Consumers often have a limited understanding of the matter, do not know how to allocate their energy costs and how savings can be made. There's a lot of myth and inadequacy going around. Although communication campaigns are sound and good to listen to, communication needs to be more systematic and clearly thought out in order to achieve a real result. Second of all, that's the subject. I understand that yesterday it came out in this hall that two colleagues, Indrek Rauds and Liisa-Ly Pakosta, have a relationship with the Estonian forest. As a member of the Committee on the Environment, I welcome this, and I think that we should give more examples of nature and learn from it in the autopsy of all topics so that everyone has a beautiful relationship with nature. Here, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, I will give an example of nature, which should well illustrate energy saving in Estonia. In fact, an ant is considered to be one of the strongest animals in terms of its weight and the burdens it carries. When we observe ants, however, we see comic abnormalities or situations. I think they're always doing a very useful job. At the same time, it is typical that a large caterpillar is transported together, but it is dragged in every direction. The caterpillar will eventually shift to where the carriers are more. Some ants may even sit on caterpillars, pull their jaws with all their might, and are convinced that they will do something very useful, not even notice that they carry them with the caterpillar. In certain cases, ants do not have a comprehensive and coherent plan of action; everyone wants to go straight to the nest with their prey. The same is unfortunately true of sustainable energy policy in the Republic of Estonia. What needs to be done to improve the situation? In the first half of the 1990s, Estonia had a Ministry of Energy, and the field was considered so important. In the second additional budget for 2009, 86 million kroons were allocated to the Climate and Energy Agency. The Climate and Energy Agency was created in haste alongside KredEx, and instead of help, it started interfering with KredEx. Juhan Parts said yesterday that this agency has been sacked in vain in this hall. I'm not the bag guy, but I'm sure it hasn't happened for nothing. The Agency was given money without being clear what tasks it would perform and how it would perform them. The agency, which has been operating for a short time, has so far stood out only with scandals. Estonia needs a specific control centre in this area. The Climate and Energy Agency is necessary, but at that time the best was wanted and turned out as usual. The Agency must be credible, responsible for the entire energy economy, working with ministries, KredEx and municipalities. I am pleased to see that in the end the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also understood the need to draw up a detailed overview of the projects supported by the Agency and the contracts concluded, on the basis of which the new Riigikogu and the government can make a deliberate decision on the future fate of the agency. In addition, there is a need to ensure systemicity and coherence with other sectoral policies in order to keep an overall picture. Last week, the government decided to increase the excise duty on fuel used on railways and ships. This is a clear sign that we do not want to strengthen the transport sector, where the freight price per tonne is the cheapest. It's not a helping hand for saving, it's the other way around. The system of informing and educating citizens needs to be significantly improved. Sadly, in reality, much is based on human comprehension. For example, with the help of KredEx, we can heat up large apartment buildings, but since there are no thermal meters in the apartments of both new and old houses in Estonia, which are widespread elsewhere in Europe, there are still those who, as suggested by Erki Arrow, keep windows open in winter and do not turn off the temperature of radiators. The information must be brought to the level of the individual. On the other hand, it is now very popular to talk about smart grids. First of all, it should be private fun for rich people, as good colleague Lembit Kaljuvee says: let's still get the car to drive before we start creating all kinds of miracle gadgets. Can I have an extra two minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U112	Please, two more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U113	The return on a possible investment can be measured over light years. The economic efficiency of mandatory district heating areas and the use of alternative, more energy-efficient fuel systems need to be further analysed. Yesterday, Minister Parts said that the vast majority of the networks belong to municipalities or their companies, and that depends only on their decisions. Unfortunately, even with a very high will, the huge investment needed is clearly beyond the reach of many municipalities, while the loss of networks is sometimes 20% and the consumer has no alternative. Indeed, the biggest savings can be achieved in the heating economy of buildings, both due to the quality of Soviet construction and the Nordic climate. 70% of people live in apartment buildings, private houses have less potential savings, but they must not be forgotten either. There is a clear need to contribute more to cooperation between the state, KredEx and municipalities. Systematicity must be ensured from design to final construction phase. In short, energy saving, economic, environmental and financial policies must be seen even more systematically as a whole. Let us learn from the mistakes of others, let us not imitate ants! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U114	Thank you very much. Next, as a representative of the Group of Toomas Tõniste Isamaa and Res Publica Union, I would like to ask you. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the subject of our debate is energy saving, not the cost of some energy sources, such as electricity or motor fuel. This shows an understanding of the deeper nature of energy affordability problems. Energy has become more and more a commodity in today's world, the prices of which tend to converge and move globally in one clock. If any energy source is cheaper than others, its use will expand and growing demand will begin to smooth the price difference. There is a tendency for the integration of energy markets in different countries to increase. Liquid fuels have long been a commodity at world market prices, including for gas, the construction of liquid gas terminals has created competition on a number of national markets that did not exist in the past. Hopefully, after a while, this will also happen in Estonia. The reason why the price of electricity regulated in Estonia is the second cheapest in Europe, according to Eurostat, is not because we know some miracle trick. Nor is it a reason for a regulated market to be more effective than the free market for a long time. The price of electricity has helped to control the old oil shale power plants still in operation, the investment costs of which have long been recouped. Since it is known that new investments in electricity production are indispensable due to environmental requirements and the age of the plants, the investment costs will ultimately reach the price of electricity. In a free market, the consumer will be able to decide with which producer he will enter into the contract and choose between more pricing methods and more packages. Therefore, the free market also provides a better service to the consumer in a far-reaching perspective. In the European Union, national electricity markets are open, as competition between different producers and sellers will ensure a better price for the consumer in the long term. Estonia, as a member of the European Union, must also open the electricity market in full in 2013, which clearly concerns consumers. The increase in the cost of oil and motor fuels also has a negative impact on both companies and families' wallets. This concern needs to be addressed more seriously by politicians, and the question is how to do it in substance, not only in form. In the opinion of the IRL Group, work on energy saving issues is a substantive way of reducing price increases and reducing the cost of homes. In the case of regulated-price services, the Competition Authority must analyse in substance and in depth the merits of the prices and their changes. For those services which are priced in a free market, such as motor fuel and electricity in full after a while, there is generally no reason to claim that the price that has developed on the market is not right, that it should actually be lower. The market economy is still the best known solution to the functioning economic systems. Although there are also problems, the rule is generally that, if an activity is much more useful than others, there will be more players, prices will fall for the consumer and profitability will decrease. What can consumers and the state do to limit energy costs? Investments must be made in energy savings. It is not fair to mislead consumers by claiming that a higher price is caused by a free market. In energy markets that are closely linked to each other, any policy will not be able to change energy prices much in the long term, at least not in the direction of cheapness. How, then, can we ensure that energy is affordable even in a situation where energy tends to become more expensive around the world as demand grows? I guess using energy more sparingly than before. It must not be forgotten that the price is only one factor in the size of the cost. Another equally important factor is the volume of consumption. In Estonia's climate, the amount of heating costs depends very much on the energy-saving buildings in which we live, work, study and do business. IRL therefore considers that both residents and the state must contribute to energy saving because the benefits are obvious. The state must continue to finance the energy-saving programmes that have been mentioned today. Energy efficiency in Estonia is still far from the level at which we should think about whether we invest too much in energy saving. Both public buildings, apartment buildings, production buildings and small buildings are to a large extent not designed to save energy at the time of their construction. There has been no information on this and no necessary construction materials and technical systems in Soviet times. Now these errors must be corrected. A large part of energy consumption is related to transport. The country has invested heavily in the development of public transport, both through the sale of emission allowances through transactions and through the use of EU structural funds. Estonia will receive new trains, new busses and trams that will help bring public transport to a better level. In my opinion, the electric car project is also welcome and necessary. There is no doubt that electric cars are still in a pretty rapid development phase, but the use of cars is often indispensable in view of Estonian dispersal. The procurement of electric cars for people, supporting their purchase and setting up a charging network will provide a concrete experience of the suitability of this technology in our circumstances. With these thoughts, I will finish speaking on behalf of the IRL Group and I wish the people of Estonia, companies, government and we here too the strength to make intelligent energy savings investments! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U116	Thank you. I would now like to ask my colleague, Urve Palo, to speak as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U117	Good afternoon. Mr President, eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U118	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, Energy consumption has increased year after year, we can all see that. And the energy market that will open in 2013 and, at the same time, the continuing need to invest in new power generation capacities, energy transmission and distribution in Estonia, suggest that energy prices will continue to rise in the coming years. At the same time, we need energy to cope daily. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee on Economic Affairs has raised energy savings as a matter of national importance. What can the Estonian state do today to ensure that the people are also supplied with energy tomorrow, and we can also pay for it? Firstly, the reduction in energy consumption and its sustainable use must be placed in the focus of the country's energy policy. There is a need to improve citizens' awareness of energy-saving consumption. It is estimated that economic energy savings represent up to a third of Estonia's total current energy consumption. Economic savings mean that saving energy is a cheaper solution than building new generation capacity. The Social Democrats believe that if it is cheaper to save energy, it must also be done, rather than building new production capacities that raise prices, let alone paying for daily consumption. Secondly, long-term measurable targets, policies and financing must be considered for energy savings in existing buildings. Nearly 40% of all energy is consumed in buildings. Our energy consumption in buildings is double that of Finland and Sweden, so we should try to halve this consumption. Energy saving requirements for new buildings are not enough. By 2020, nearly zero-energy houses in Estonia have been set as their target, but the number of new buildings will be so low in the year that it will make less than 1% of the building fund. It would take more than 100 years for new buildings to replace the old ones. It is therefore important to focus attention not only on new buildings but also on making existing buildings more energy efficient. Unfortunately, Estonia has long been in a situation where there is no clear management of construction activities. The process is more random than not to say chaotic. For example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should set up a construction department, through which all construction activities are operated in Estonia. It is difficult to design according to the minimum energy performance requirements so far, and so we already do not have many construction projects in line with modern energy saving solutions, not to mention buildings. The Agency should therefore be responsible for developing specific indicative standard solutions and operating rules for energy efficient buildings. Our northern neighbours have done so. In these countries, the state has made it very easy for users to understand how to build and renovate a house that is sustainable for energy, by means of extensive and detailed examples of solutions and instructions. The Building Board should also be responsible for ensuring that the construction supervision system in Estonia functions. The state must see its role and responsibility here! The current situation, in which the builder orders music himself, i.e. ordering supervision of his work, has led to the consumer not being able to be sure when buying the building that the project is in line with the project or that the construction works of the building have been carried out in a high-quality manner. An obligation should be introduced to ensure that all important stages of work are documented and photographed so that the quality of work can be clearly demonstrated. Further training should also be organised for architects and engineers to introduce principles and standard solutions for the functioning of an energy-efficient building. After all, most architects were educated years ago. There is also a need to train workers, as quality delivery of energy-efficient buildings is crucial. So the state should set annual targets for how many buildings need to be made more energy-efficient and how this will be achieved. In addition to apartment buildings, national energy saving programmes should extend to individual buildings. Thirdly, the minimum energy performance requirements and energy efficiency criteria for public procurement contracts should be established for the buildings to be built with public money. I absolutely agree with my previous speakers who said that this was important. My colleague, Mr Ossinovski, asked Mr Kallas whether the Committee on Economic Affairs had a plan to include this issue in the Public Procurement Act, and a good colleague, Mr Kallas, replied that the Committee on Economic Affairs would raise this issue. A woman of the word, a bull of the horns! I hope that the law on public procurement will indeed be amended accordingly. In any case, there is my support for this. Fourthly, energy producers must be involved in energy saving by imposing an annual obligation on the largest energy producers to save the amount of energy set by the State. In a number of EU countries, such as Great Britain and Denmark, the country agrees on a fixed amount of energy savings with major energy producers or sellers. Savings can occur when energy is converted, for example, in combined heat and power generation, in the transmission of energy, such as using innovative smart grids, or in consumption. The main focus, however, is on the savings achieved by the end-user. Fifthly, it is necessary to establish a legal framework for the emergence of a market for energy service companies, where companies take on the financing of energy saving projects and the implementation of austerity measures, benefiting from energy savings for consumers. With this, we can lay the foundations for the use of large-scale energy savings projects, both in public buildings and in private homes. The market for such energy service companies already exists in a number of countries, such as Germany, Great Britain, Denmark and the USA, it is an increasingly growing sector. In Estonia, a regulatory framework should be put in place to bring these companies into operation, and they could also be allowed to apply the KredEx instruments. In any case, the state must come here to help because the banks may not lend their help. Finally, in order to mitigate the situation of the deprived population, the country must focus energy-saving programmes and measures primarily on vulnerable groups. Otherwise, rising energy prices will plunge an even greater part of the population into poverty, and the country will pay for the increase in energy prices through social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U120	Thank you. Next, as a representative of the Group of the Reform Party of the Margus Hanson Group, I would like to ask for the floor. Eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U121	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Addressing energy saving as a key national issue is well-founded and appropriate in view of the steady rise in world energy prices. And also up to date, because looking back over the long heating period that has passed, the question in many respects is how to save on heating, electricity and petrol bills, so how to save energy. Is it inevitable, dictated by world markets, that energy and energy prices will rise in the long term? What can we do to save energy, especially non-renewable energy, to save the environment, to save money? The aim of the energy policy of the Reform Party is to ensure Estonia's energy security at the cheapest possible price for the Estonian consumer and the environment. A secure, affordable and clean supply of energy will strengthen Estonia's competitiveness and create prerequisites for greater economic growth and job creation. Energy savings and savings can and must be achieved both at end-users and throughout the production chain. Energy savings can be achieved through various measures in all areas, including housing, industry, energy and transport. It has been said that about 40% of energy is consumed by households, and that significant energy savings can be achieved by making apartment buildings more heat-resistant, with less energy being spent on them. I would like to focus on this area first. The state has implemented support measures to increase the thermal insulation of apartment buildings and reduce energy losses. Hopefully, the cooperative interest in support for the renovation of apartment buildings will continue to grow, and with more than 30 million euros from the sale of unused allowances to Luxembourg in Estonia, the renovated apartment buildings will become at least a third more energy-efficient in the same way as those already renovated. In this case, around 10,000 cooperative houses in Estonia can be renovated in about 1000 whole and under effective supervision. But how do you renovate the rest? Life has shown that, for various reasons, it takes a long enough time for cooperatives to make decisions on thermal renovation. As a reason, the failure to achieve the desired results in the past would be emphasised: the unwillingness or inability of the co-operatives to borrow or increase the existing loan burden, but also the complexity of the administration in the opinion of the cooperatives, non-attractive support rates and measures, the rapid rise in construction prices, which eats state support, and perhaps the lack of best practice. By overcoming these barriers, we could significantly increase the interest of cooperatives in support measures. It is therefore crucial that the State continues to consider the renovation of apartment buildings to be important, even after the end of the quota-sale money, and will continue to provide financial support for energy-saving renovations. In planning measures for the next financial perspective of the European Union, consideration should be given to the introduction of support for the renovation of apartment buildings of different sizes and sizes of different materials, i.e. nearly a century old, but also for the renovation of small houses, which were mentioned yesterday. In the latter case, there could be not only support for increasing the insulation of the building, but also a boost for the introduction of innovative and environmentally friendly heating methods. For example, the installation of environmentally friendly land heating systems using renewable energy could be supported, but why not also the use of solar cells. The same applies to reducing the energy needs of administrative buildings, kindergartens, school buildings and other buildings. However, the depletion of the amounts of CO2 quota sales should not in the future slow down this momentum in the work aimed at reducing the energy needs of buildings, as Riigi Kinnisvara AS has shown in recent months. At the same time, there are other energy savings places. In many parts of Europe, heat loss of heat grids is about 10%, but according to the National Audit Office, in some cases more than 20% is due to the large difference between the temperature of the old hot pipes, but also winter and summer ambient air. The proper renovation of existing networks, the investment in modern heat networks, will help to reduce heat losses. This, however, requires substantial investment and public support is essential. Cogeneration of heat and electricity on the basis of local and renewable energy sources, wood chips, other biomass as well as peat also provides savings, in particular through energy saving. In cities where this type of cogeneration has been launched, room space is much more affordable than the heat of gas boiler houses, for example. However, the paradox of energy savings is that the cheaper the price of central heating, the lower the interest of cooperatives in energy savings investments, as the return on investment for energy savings will be longer. This concerns existing buildings, the housing fund. On the other hand, emphasis must also be put on the energy efficiency of new buildings, building on the negative experience of the building boom and the requirements arising from the Euro Directives. In the case of new and thoroughly renovated buildings, both administrative buildings and residential buildings, minimum energy efficiency requirements for energy savings and renewable energy must be established. Even now, in addition to preparing a normative base for nearly zero-energy buildings, substantial work must be started with architects and engineers, the people who are actually creating new buildings. This will ensure the future construction of office, kindergarten, school, residential and other buildings with innovative and environmentally sustainable solutions at the project stage. The cost of buildings should also increasingly be calculated on the basis of the so-called life-cycle principle and take account of life-cycle costs, i.e. costs and cost savings in the operation of buildings. Yes, we can all use our choices to contribute to energy savings, but sometimes a little neutral advice is needed. Perhaps it would be worth giving such functions to independent and bureaucratic experts on the spot all over Estonia, as energy savings ensure financial savings and also competitiveness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U122	Thank you. Now please speak to Kalle Palling. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic Affairs for preparing and addressing this extremely important issue in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The European Union has set an overall energy saving target for 2020. We should not consider the achievement of this energy saving as an end in itself, which simply needs to be met. We must achieve this because it will help save all our money. Energy savings are not only dependent on renovations of apartment buildings, which were very focused on in the debate. Nor should we, in pursuing the objectives of energy saving, address the kind of fire that has so far fallen out of our energy policy to a large extent. We need to tackle the problems in this area in a complex way. At this point, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Kaja Kallas, who has explained this matter to us in a very complex way. In view of the renewable energy target for 2020, we are well ahead of and close to achieving this. In terms of energy savings, however, we still have a lot of room for reflection. From yesterday's presentation by the Minister and Professor Lehtla, we heard that different people think that the pain points are in different places. There are things that can be solved by the state, and there are things that can be solved by people. However, the prerequisite is for the state to take its own steps to shape a common understanding and a code that would also apply in 2020. It seems to me that, more generally, Estonia does not yet know that greater energy efficiency usually leads to greater comfort and increased quality of life. The money just stays considerably more for everything else. Although our electricity market is already open for one third and will be fully open in 2013, I have not seen decisive steps towards raising the awareness of the population, as well as of the state itself, in terms of energy savings and explaining the above logic that energy savings are really savings. Since the greatest potential for energy savings lies in housing, I will stop at it more. We've got a lot of problems here. There is a lack of understanding of the level of energy efficiency that buildings can achieve in modern technology, the housing or other building in 2020, which we are actually talking about. There are no demonstration objects or solutions that would demonstrate the efficiency, feasibility and ease of use of new buildings to the general public at a new level. There is a lack of capacity for cooperation and practical skills in creating new levels of buildings and ensuring quality. There is also no knowledge, or rather no understanding, that savings may not be expressed in building costs, but in fact, if you look at the building's life map as a whole, dividing it around 50 years, it is saved in kilowatt-hours. There are no financing agreements or practices. And most importantly, there is no state and local government example action, no use of the most economically viable technology. What am I gonna say about all this? I do not wish to express my pessimism here at all, but rather to call for thought. It is now 2011. We still have a little time to reach our goal. Consider the above problems. We need to achieve real savings in our goal and in people's spending without overreach. Our companies and people will only develop in the right direction if we say what are the thresholds and what are the minimum requirements now and in 2020. I am quite convinced that the money used as a matter of urgency in the knowledge we have so far, which is directed towards energy saving, can lead to savings, but in fact, all of this may no longer meet the minimum requirements that the European Union can set for us in 2020. The first negative examples of inefficient use of money already exist. Here is another idea: Estonia could become an exporting country for energy saving by selling relevant technological solutions, knowledge and experience. We are a small enough country to achieve these goals painlessly, if we carefully consider the steps, both in the housing sector and in the area of networks and transport. In order to achieve better energy savings in the residential economy, cities are visited in Austria and Germany. In Sweden, the city of Malmö, led by Estonian Ilmar Reepalu, is visited to see with its own eyes the solutions that work. Austrian and German solutions may not work for us one hundred percent, but our solutions could work for energy-saving housing, for example, in the Nordic countries. Consider this export potential. Estonian companies have already started to concentrate in a cluster to develop this topic on their own and to increase the added value of each other's products. Surely there would be much more complexities if the country would also aim to create new quality in energy saving, to be innovative and leading in this area in the Nordic countries, and why not throughout the European Union. I very much hope that the state of Estonia and the people of Estonia will be able to meet the energy saving targets with solutions that will actually bring about new quality and savings, while saving their own money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U124	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this issue once and for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U125	The next item is the first reading of Bill No 9 of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Minister of Justice Kristen Michal, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U126	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour and privilege for me, as a minister, to be on the floor of the Riigikogu for the first time and to present such a very good draft as is the amendment of the Commercial Code under the European directives. I believe that it will be easier for honourable members of the Riigikogu to follow my presentation when I speak briefly at the beginning what the purpose of this draft is, and then I will look at the main changes that are being made in the Estonian legal order. Let it be said that this is a relatively technical draft, which does not mean that other interested parties were not involved in the drafting of the draft, apart from the Ministry of Justice. Firstly, the objectives of the draft. To be brief, the draft before you aims to reduce the administrative burden on mergers and divisions under European directives. To this end, a directive will be transposed into Estonian law, which will simplify the reporting and documentation requirements for companies in the case of mergers and divisions. The directive itself has since 2009 entered the number 2009/109/EC and should have been transposed into Estonian law by 30 June 2011. I think this is a completely real goal. The aim of the directive to be transposed is to contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the European Union by reducing the reporting and information requirements for companies. This in turn means a lower administrative burden and lower costs for companies. I believe that none of us can oppose a reduction in the administrative burden on companies, because the easier it is to do business, the more people will hopefully do it. The amendments will reduce the reporting obligation for mergers of companies as well as for the formation of a public limited liability company and the increase in the subscribed capital if they occur in the course of a merger or division. In addition, the Directive on cross-border mergers has been partly amended. So much for the main objective of the draft. Here are the changes that are being made to the Estonian legal order. I will not read all the changes in the absence of time from this remote control, because at the beginning of the draft explanatory memorandum, all the main changes are listed point by point. In advance, let it be said that these changes are 19. Anyone with a more accurate interest may look at them or ask for more information about them. I would point out the following. As one of the changes, public limited liability companies will be able to make the merger division documents available to shareholders by making them public on the company's website. This concerns, for example, the publication of the draft terms of merger and division and the reports of the sworn auditors, as well as the submission of the last three financial years' reports. Under the current law, documents can be accessed at the company's place of business or at the company's register. The draft law provides that the management board of the merging or a company involved in the division must inform the shareholders and the management boards of the other companies involved in the merger or division in order to enable them in turn to inform their shareholders of any significant change in the assets or liabilities of the company from the date of conclusion of the merger or division agreement until the meetings which decide to approve the merger or division agreement. This information obligation is imposed in contrast to the rules of the current Commercial Code, which provides for such an obligation only in the case of divisions of public limited liability companies, hereinafter in the case of mergers of all types of companies. There is no obligation to notify where shareholders decide to waive it themselves. In addition, public limited liability companies may, instead of submitting the draft terms of merger and division to the Commercial Register, make it public on their website. In the event of a division of a public limited liability company or a private limited-liability company by the formation of a new public limited-liability company or limited-liability company, the preparation of the division report and the intermediate balance sheet shall no longer be required and the auditor shall not be required to examine the draft terms of division if, in each of the private-liability companies or public limited-liability companies involved in the division, the shares are assigned to the shareholders of the private-liability company or public limited-liability company being divided by the same ratio as that of the private-liability company or limited-liability company being divided. A limited-liability company shall be prohibited from acquiring its shares for as long as the contributions for the shares have not been paid in full. This specific provision relates to the regulation of the so-called contribution limited company. It is also specified that, in the event of an increase in the share capital of a company to be acquired, the merger may not be entered in the register of companies before it is entered in the register of the increase in capital. Provision shall also be made when an increase in the share or share capital of a private limited-liability company or a public limited-liability company to be acquired or acquired by reason of the merger or division is not permitted. As a result of the amendments made to the Commercial Code, amendments are also made to the Financial Law and to the Securities and Markets Act, which provide for a number of specific rules for mergers or divisions of companies in this area. Changes are made on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and have been developed in cooperation with the officials of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Justice sent this draft to the interest groups for consultation and coordination at the beginning of this year. The full list can be viewed in chapter 10 of the applicant's explanatory memorandum, and if no one is bothering to follow the finger, I will inform you that the organisations to whom this bill was sent were more than 20. A number of organisations gave their opinion, and here I would like to express my thanks to them for their contribution. Ultimately, it could be resounding that everyone's concerns were resolved and that there were no differences of opinion. I will conclude with this and announce that, as a representative of the Government of the Republic, I will certainly support the completion of this excellent draft at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U127	Thank you very much, Minister. Any questions? Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! To keep you from going really fast the first time, let's ask. My question certainly concerns this draft and perhaps the subject at large. This is precisely the case with the creation of companies. This directive concerns both mergers and divisions, but whether you have analysed where this limit might run, so that both the creation of companies and the control of companies' activities are necessary. In the same way, it is necessary that the administrative burden should be reduced to a simple level, but how far can it go? If business activities or the formation of companies are very simple, there may be a situation at some point where the risk is very high. It is very easy to let companies go bankrupt, taxes and debts to other legal persons and private individuals are not paid. Have you analysed the market from this point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U129	Yes, we have, and this analysis will continue, of course. The general position or attitude of the government so far is that doing business is never easy. It's easy enough to start, but it's not. However, doing business must also be simple enough to have more people who do it and consider it a way of life to be an employer for themselves or an employer for others. It means more prosperity for the whole of society. As regards the possible bankruptcy that you have mentioned, in this regard we have set a rather ambitious objective in the coalition agreement and in the government's work plan, essentially to shorten the bankruptcy procedure three times. Why are we doing this? It is based on just the same amount of analysis. The 'Doing Business' report, for example, places the Estonian economic environment, on the dark side of the business environment, precisely that our bankruptcy procedure is immensely lingering. It also raises questions on its own, which you also mentioned, such as whether all claims can be satisfied, whether the procedure is good enough and fast enough. So, in any case, we will continue this analysis, but the general attitude is that reporting could be simple enough. The state should not ask for various data on a number of occasions, either from citizens or businesses. The current draft, of course, is, as has already been said here, quite technical, but, generally speaking, there will continue to be a stance in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U130	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Now I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Gräzini, from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U131	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed a very good bill, but it is quite awful in its place, because there are many changes and I do not know how many of you have bothered to read it in detail. But the Committee on Legal Affairs did. We have discussed the draft twice, it was on 19 April and 2 May. On 19 April, the decision was taken to send the draft to the first reading of the large hall, which we have then reached, and we proposed that the first reading be completed. I would point out that the decision was taken with one voice, i.e. an absolute consensus, i.e. an enthusiastic consensus. There were no objections. Once again, we reviewed the draft on 2 May and stuck with previous procedural decisions. Our proposal is to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 25 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-11_U132	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks again! Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft. 25 May 2010 at 4 p.m. First reading of Bill No 9 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Our hearing is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.27 p.m.
