ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U1	Dear Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the fifth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I would like to ask the first representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson, and then the following will be heard:
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion between the Republic of Estonia and Jersey. Secondly, the draft Act on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Singapore on double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when these two drafts are being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U3	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U4	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Several good members of the Riigikogu have an inquiry to the respected Minister of the Interior. It concerns the activities of free-will sprayers. We have the following questions. What measures are planned to significantly increase the number of volunteers in 2012? How does the state intend to make voluntary rescuers attractive to employers? What benefits could an employer expect in recruiting a voluntary savior? Does the Ministry already have a mechanism in place? What is the Minister's assessment of in the current situation, in which the wages of the rescuers were first reduced and now frozen for years, of the Ministry's plan to improve the ability and quality of the service acquired with the aid of rescue equipment and equipment? How does the state finance the maintenance and repair of usable rescue equipment and equipment for voluntary rescue workers? Have these amounts been calculated in the 2012 budget? If so, what calculations have been made and are they sufficient for rescue work? What is the reason why, in the shadow of supporting voluntary rescuers, the state is directing its responsibilities for internal security to local authorities, whose task remains to provide all-encompassing assistance for volunteer rescuers? Last question: What is the specific use of additional funds for volunteers included in the 2012 state budget? € 105087? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. If they comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Bureau takes the drafts to the proceedings and forwards the inquiry to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them: the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. a draft law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated on 12 October, the commission of which is the Committee on Rural Affairs; members of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestori, Kalev Kotkase, Kalvi Tõvi and Sven Mikseri s. a Draft Act on the Law of the Government of the Republic, the Civil Service Act, the Official Offices of State Employees and the Law amending the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Audit Activities, initiated on 12 October, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a draft law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property initiated on 13 October, the commission of which is the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 13 October, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's Green Paper "The European Union's dual-use export control system: ensuring security and competitiveness in a changing world" to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and has appointed the Committee on National Defence and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the Government's positions and the European Commission's Green Paper. The deadline for the opinion is 24 October at 4 p.m. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Now, my fellow officers, we're going to do a presence check. Currently 77 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 24. We shall proceed to the adoption of the agenda. We will approve the agenda according to the project in your hands, but the fifth question on the agenda today, which was to be answered by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, will be left out. This is delayed because the Minister cannot come to answer for family reasons today. I shall put the agenda to the vote without a fifth question. Please take a stand and vote. There are 75 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the agenda, there is no one against, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U6	We'll go to the questions. Inara Luigas, Deniss Boroditš, Mailis Reps, Aivar Riisalu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Tarmo Tamm, Kalev Kalso, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassiliev, Peeter Võsa, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Ester Tuiksoo presented today's first inquiry on 16 June 2011. The question is about the impact of the completion of the Koidula railway border station on local passenger train traffic. The answer is Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. On behalf of the inquisitors, please speak to Inara Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 16 June 2011, 12 members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Today it is 17 October 2011, which shows that it has taken the Minister four months and one day to look for answers. But we are pleased that the Minister is again before us, and we are waiting for answers to our questions. By making an inquiry, we knew that this summer in Põlvamaa the Koidula railway border station would be completed. That border station was finished. So we are dealing with this issue in the past, but there are still a number of questions about the completion of the railway border station. Some of the issues have lost their topicality, but some are still topical. We, the people of South-East Estonia, are most interested in the fact that if the Estonian state has contributed very large sums to the construction of the Koidula railway border station, then people also have very high expectations of improving passenger train traffic in the area. We have four questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications to answer. However, in addition to all these problems, some problems have arisen. According to the contract regulating border crossings between Estonia and Russia, the Koidula railway border station does not officially exist, which means that until there is no such agreement on border crossings between Estonia and Russia, it will not be possible to set up a passenger train through Koidula, either Riga-Peterburi or Tallinn-Moscow. At the same time, we have learned from the media that freight train traffic is regulated only by a letter from the railway administration from Russia, which gives us the right to do so and simply states that it is possible to drive. We also ask how far it is to conclude these contracts and how far it is to deal with it at all, so that the Koidula railway border station, which also took large sums from the Estonian state budget, is ready for maximum implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U8	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U9	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Inquiries! I'll answer your questions. The first question: "One of the objectives of the Koidula railway border station project was to restore passenger train traffic in the south-eastern Estonian triangle. When are we planning to start passenger train traffic in the area? " Currently, the passenger train travels to Tallinn. Tartu is on the Koidula route every day. The route of the passenger train on the Tartu-Orava route was extended to the Koidula railway station from 1 September. In order to restore passenger traffic throughout the South-East Estonian triangle, a section of the railway between Koidula and Valga needs to be repaired. The current state of railway construction allows you to travel there at speeds up to 60 kilometres per hour. There are also no safe passenger platforms between Koidula and Valga. The investment needed in this section to increase the speed of passenger trains to 120 km/h and to build six platforms is approximately EUR 25 million. This investment from European Union funds can be considered in 2014‐2020. 2007 European Union co-financing during the budget period. The second question: "The development of the Koidula railway border station has been going on for years. It therefore seems strange that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was unable to foresee the necessary means for the start-up of passenger train traffic as early as this year. What reasons do local residents not want to start the necessary passenger train traffic in the area? Has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications carried out analyses to show that this is an inefficient extension of the train path? " As I said earlier, starting from September 1, it is possible to travel by passenger train to Koidulan and back every day. The assessment in your question was somewhat premature. However, it is useful for honourable members of the Riigikogu to know that if we look at September statistics on the number of passengers who have bought a ticket from Tartu to Koidula, and compare it with the additional support we pay from the state budget, it turns out that one passenger who has boarded a train from Tartu or other stops and travelled back to Koidula or Koidula to Tartu will receive a grant of 34 euros. I repeat: one passenger who has taken the train from Tartu and came down in Koidula or vice versa has received EUR 34 from the state budget. The third question: "South-East Estonia is a beautiful place with many tourist attractions (e.g. Piusa caves). How important do you consider the start-up of passenger train traffic in South-East Estonia from the point of view of tourism? " Transport connections do not in themselves create tourism. If there's demand, the transport connections will come for it. I believe that the possibility of using a train may develop tourism in some part of South-East Estonia, but the future will show this. Let us not forget the figures I said to you in reply to the previous question. As regards the connection to Piusa, it would be possible to extend the route if there is a tourist season, but Piusa's platforms should be reconstructed as a matter of priority. Currently, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and AS are considering different options for Estonian Railways so that this investment can be made during 2012. In this case, it is possible to consider the extension of the line as a test or experiment, finally assessing its cost. Question 4: "The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has provided one reason why passenger train traffic will not be launched, as all activities will focus on 2014 when new trains arrive and therefore all infrastructure work will be directed towards this time. What will change for the residents of South-East Estonia from the perspective of passenger train traffic in 2014? " Indeed, in 2014, new diesel trains will be in service. Certainly, these diesel trains are more economical and efficient. The price of one kilometre of these trains will certainly be much cheaper than for current trains. So the train traffic density in South-East Estonia will also improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U10	Thank you. You have questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a very specific question. I ask you to explain the principle of calculation that you have received by sharing that the subsidy for each passenger is EUR 34.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U12	Thank you. In September, we looked at the number of passengers travelling to and from Koidula and the additional state budget support that we pay to the company operating the route. From 1 September, this contribution shall amount to EUR 24000 for a period of four months. By dividing it by four, we receive an average monthly grant of €6,000 to increase train traffic from Orava to Koidula. If you divide EUR 6000 by the number of passengers, which was 174, you will receive EUR 34 in response. It was a simple calculation. We must certainly consider that many passengers who travelled from Tartu to Koidula might have traveled to Oravan in other ways, but we will make a simple calculation to see how much one passenger actually had to be paid. For information, this amount, for example, on the route to Tallinn, Tartu or Tallinn, is certainly much more reasonable if we also look at the use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U13	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I too had the honour of attending the festive event at the opening of the Koidula railway station. The President, Prime Minister and Minister were present on Estonia's side, there were still high dignitaries from Latvia, but I saw no one from Russia. What do you think if the mayor of Tallinn, Edgar Savisaar, had he been invited, would he have also participated in higher-ranking railroads from Russia? After all, all the transit and transport things that Edgar has made have been very successful.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U15	I'm happy to make an impression with you. Were there not enough participants to really enjoy the completion of this great investment? It cannot be ruled out at all that if there was anyone else present (I don't know who, I don't name names), the party might have been ruined.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U16	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U17	Thank you. Do you have the numbers at hand for how much a train ticket there costs, how much does one driver have to pay himself? Secondly, is there any indication that, if you put in place those passages where there are no waiting platforms and other things at present, how much burden would they have at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U18	From a head-on perspective, ticket revenues in the region are around 30%, 70% being state budget support. We are talking to Mrs Luigas about extending the Koidula route to Piusan, because Piusa had to have a tourist destination of pan-European importance. The length of this line is five kilometers. This is not a large amount of state budget support, but if you put it on one passenger, the picture will get a little bit sadder. It cannot be ruled out what the people of South-East Estonia have promised me (at least they have inspired me, and that is why I am dealing with this topic) that if the train starts going from Koidula to Piusa, there will be an unprecedented tourist explosion. I do not want to allow this from the chair of the Riigikogu, because much depends on you too, after all, you are finally adopting the budget. But if we manage to fix that platform there, we'll try this line in the spring, and if we come back together in the fall, I'll wait again to find out what happened in Piusa, whether or not there was a tourist explosion in 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U19	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U20	Honourable waitress! These explosions are expected here before. One of the explosions had to be that we would be among the five richest countries in Europe, but unfortunately this explosion did not happen. You will probably have a lot of questions about this Riigikogu, because everything that relates to the Koidula railway station is far from being implemented in a purposeful way. As regards the provision of freight trains and services, which have taken a great deal of money from the Estonian state, what more needs to be done and how much money is needed to invest in the Koidula railway border station in order for it to become a maximum application?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U21	Thank you. I wouldn't compare these two explosions. And I haven't promised this tourist explosion to Piusa, that's your promise. In this sense, you have more to do with the promises of the explosion, and I'm trying to be on the ground with two legs. I dare say that the Koidula railway station in the form it was designed is ready. In this sense, it is a sign for the Estonian state that it has been a rather difficult investment. We know that before the occupation, the railway border station had functions in the city of Petseri, and we made a decision that the railway station should come there. In this form, this railway border station is ready. I don't see any particular obstacles either. You referred to certain contracts in your introductory speech, etc. Ultimately, the way services are provided at the railway border station is a matter for the state. There's no need for any acceptance or temple. These functions are currently performed in Koidula, before customs functions, sanitary and other activities were carried out in Tartu, who knows where. In this sense, it is a railway border station with great potential. Everyone, including all interested operators, must certainly work to make use of such infrastructure opportunities for the economic interests of Estonia. I fully agree that there is an effort to be made here. There are opportunities for private operators, there are opportunities for Russian and Latvian entrepreneurs. But we have this infrastructure and we need to work towards increasing the opportunities that this border station offers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U22	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U23	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I still got a little haunted by that 34 euros per person. What are the cheaper options for people to get to Koidula?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U24	That's a good question. I did this calculation this morning when we were discussing these answers at the Ministry. I believe that Inara Luigas and other MPs elected from South-East Estonia could take on an assignment and ask the passengers that if they were given 34 euros in cash in Estonian kroons about 530 kroons, how would they come to Koidula? 530 kroons in Estonia is quite a lot of money per trip. Don't get me wrong! Maybe this is where we have to pay so much. But if we talk a lot about the effectiveness of government administration lately, and there are good-sounding speeches here, it is always wise to add a price tag. Personally, I'm very pleased that the train is going to Koidulan. But we need to know in this hall how much it costs. These people might know that too. Perhaps the people who want to take this race could be supported in a more 'need-based' way. Maybe! But here's the deal. I've made these decisions to get the train to Koidulan.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U25	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister Juhan Parts. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. I'm gonna stop asking questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U26	The next question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Deniss Borodichi, Aivar Riisalu, Aadu Musta, Tarmo Tamme, Yana Toomi, Vladimir Velmani, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Peeter Võsa and Viktor Vassilyev on 16 June 2011 about the price forecast of OÜ Elering. I'm asking for Lembit Kaljuvee in the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U27	Madam President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry we are discussing was handed over four months ago. The incentive was the report by OÜ Elering on the security of supply of the Estonian electricity system, which discussed the state of the electricity market in the coming years, the security of supply and the price forecasts. There has been a lot of talk about the price of electricity in this hall and this remote control, which is also correct, because the price of electricity in Estonia has risen very quickly over the last five years. Not so fast for private consumers, but the price increase for large consumers over the last five years has been very drastic. I recall the last Electricity Market Forum, where one of the leaders of the major Stora Enso group said that they had 11 large sawmills from the White Sea to the southern Polish border, similar to our Imavere sawmill, but this mill has the highest price of electricity compared to other countries. If the Minister or Prime Minister on this remote is talking about the price of electricity, they're saying we haven't had an increase in the price of electricity. My colleague also argued that I am lying that there has been no double price increase. I brought a table this time, which has been made since 2007 by the Federation of Large Electricity Consumers. From there we can see that in 2007 the price of electricity to large customers in Estonia was 29 euros per megawatt-hour, last year it was 68 euros per megawatt-hour. So these consumers have had a really high price increase. Yes, my colleague was right, private consumers have had lower price increases, but large consumers have unfortunately had to endure such price increases. Why am I talking about this so seriously? In those days, the Financial Times discussed the future price of electricity. For the next 20 years, a very rapid and large increase in electricity prices has been projected in the European Union, up to 100% over 10 to 20 years. Depending on the amount of fossil fuel used in power plants, this increase may be lower but may also be higher. So by 2030, the price of electricity will at least double again. Basically, the situation is that if we can save energy at home, heat houses and do one, two and three more, it's hard to do in industry. I think that Stora Enso will certainly not build his next sawmill in Estonia, given how much electricity is consumed in that company and the share of the cost price of electricity. There are many such industries in Estonia: timber industries, construction materials industries. From this point of view, we should be very serious about what kind of investment we are making, because investments have an impact on the price of electricity. These must be very wise decisions. But we have three questions for the Minister, and we are asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U28	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U29	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! I must first of all say, as a comment on the speech by the representative of the questioners, that you are always talking about a garden hole and relatively distorted data, but I am not going to be dealing here with the rejection of these claims. Why would I give your so-called wisdom another boost? I will therefore remain within the framework of the questions you have asked. After, in the course of further questions, we can hold this discussion. The first question: "In the coming years, the biggest influence on electricity prices at European level will be the price of CO2 stemming from constraints on greenhouse gases, in addition to local energy policies. Consequently, production of oil shale electricity alone will certainly not be sustainable in the future. Why are no specific directions for the future of Estonian energy so far decided when it is known that only oil shale electricity production is not smart? Why has Estonia been stretched to make important energy decisions? Do you not think that this threatens the competitiveness and energy security of electricity production in Estonia as a whole? " Several questions, I answer in a queue. First of all, I am really amazed that you are saying that we have not decided on the future direction of Estonian energy. I repeat once again: the current trends in Estonian energy are of such a degree of specificity as is possible and reasonable, decided by the approval of the energy economic development plan approved by the Riigikogu in 2009. I dare say that this development plan is currently being implemented. If we look at the various activities set out in the development plan, which are very broad, I dare say that we are ahead of the pace envisaged in many respects. What's worth mentioning? It is certainly worth noting that Eesti Energia has started to build a new, modern power plant in Narva. I regard this as a necessary step, particularly with regard to energy security. We must consider that oil shale energy is, in a sense, a technological bridge to the distant future. We cannot believe in the technological revolution, as envisaged in the various vision papers for 2050. There are 39 years to go by 2050. We must take into account such a 'technological bridge', with regard, of course, to climate policy and its sustainability. Another thing that has progressed in the development plan for the energy economy and is at a much faster pace is the increase in the share of renewable energy in the energy portfolio. It is estimated that the share of renewable energy in our energy balance has reached 22%. Estonia has committed itself to reaching 25% in 2020 with a share of renewable energy. We are already almost achieving the 2020 targets. I would point out that these objectives were not taken randomly, but based on very thorough data. We can say that we have been very fast in the development of renewable energy in recent years. Whether this speed will always benefit the consumer is another issue and the subject of a separate debate. Elering is building a reserve power plant, which was a very important issue in the development plan. We know that so far we are buying reserve capacities from neighbouring countries. We have made a fundamental, concrete decision that we are building reserve capacity in Estonia. New cogeneration plants are becoming increasingly mature and news is coming from time to time that new investments are being planned in larger or smaller energy production capacities. All developments are also fixed in the energy economic development plan and these things are moving. It is certainly worth noting that we have solved almost all the questions so that Estonia does not become an energy island. There is an investment in Estlink 2. It is also a pleasure to note the success of our neighbours. The Lithuanian-Swedish Community project has entered the "discourse and decision-making phase'. It is also becoming quite realistic to have a simultaneous connection between Lithuania and Poland, which will allow Estonia to switch to the central European electricity system once again. An electricity exchange has started, which is highlighted as a very important step in Estonia's emerging Baltic-Nordic electricity market. I could continue this list. I myself have been the guardian of the Energy Economy Development Plan, but I did not really expect that in two and a half years we would get these very big and difficult decisions from behind the stone. That's my assessment. However, this must certainly not be misunderstood, because there are things that do not yet have decisions. But everything can be discussed, be it a possible remote nuclear perspective or smaller, heat energy issues. For me, energy efficiency is a very important issue. I do not agree at all with what you said in your introduction, Mr Kaljuvee, that industry has no energy efficiency potential. This potential is insane. But, of course, we want to see industrial companies see such investments, unlike apartment owners, still as part of a business plan, not just looking at possible national support programmes. The second question: What is Estonia's energy security situation in the future? Will the old Narva Power Plant blocks be closed in 2016 or are they expected to be extended until 2023? " Estonia's development plan for the electricity economy is based on the principle that we must have sufficient power generation capacity to ensure our electricity supply at all times. This has been the almost consensual position of the Riigikogu. According to the European Statistical Office, Estonia currently ranks second in the European Union after Denmark in terms of energy independence. Given the current investments in local fuel power plants and boiler plants, we can remain in this position for a long time. These Narva Power Plant blocks, which do not meet the environmental requirements of the European Union, must be closed by 2016. The remaining blocks and other plants can cover the electricity needs of Estonia as a whole. Given Estonia's very strong electricity connections, we are usually able to ensure our electricity supply in cooperation with our neighbours. The third question: "As Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, you have advised people to heat houses against rising electricity prices, which is not a bad recommendation in itself. Elering's price forecast in your opinion cannot be taken seriously. How do you see the future of Estonian electricity? What is the price of electricity in Estonia in five years' time? " Indeed, I have avoided speculation about the price on the open market because there are a lot of variables that affect and it is quite difficult to predict all of them precisely. I strongly recommend that we look at the Nordic Power Exchange with similar experience over the last ten years and at pricing there. It is clear that the price of electricity production on the market, in general, no matter what electricity is produced, is still in one way or another correlated with the price of oil. There's no linear 1:1 correlation, but there's a connection. If we compare the price of oil ten years ago, it was $10 a barrel, and electricity was cheaper on the Nordic stock exchange than it was actually regulated in Estonia and the current price is. In this sense, the future production price may also depend in one way or another on the world market price for fuels. It is quite clear that the price of electricity will in the near future depend much on the price of CO2 in this I agree very much with you, on the level of electricity prices in the Nordic countries and on the development of electricity production in other Baltic countries. I would point out that, from 2013, electricity prices will be increased not so much by opening up the electricity market, but by changing the rules on CO2 trading. From 2013 onwards, the current regulated price of oil shale electricity at high CO2 prices could rise significantly above the price level of the Nordic electricity market. I would point out that we do not know the price of CO2, even here there are different 'indicative' prices. I believe even Edda Paukson here more than those different price forecasters, because this is a somewhat unpredictable situation. This is not only unpredictable for electricity generation but also for industry. There is nothing to say, this uncertainty is, above all, a very serious test for the entire European economy. Because what is likely to happen will happen, and the European Union will not even reach the agreement that was reached in Kyoto years ago. Consequently, we are now entering such an economic space that there will certainly be a greater burden on very different economic sectors in Europe. What will be the wider impact on Europe's competitiveness, as time will show. That was my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U30	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As you might understand, the government is not going to ask for an extension to the three old power grids of Narva Power Plants. But is there anything to replace them? When the two new blocks currently in operation were built, it was planned that there would be two more blocks. These views have changed several times. Perhaps I am behind in this matter, but the specific question is: is the construction of new blocks planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U32	Thank you. Just in case, I would point out that we are doing, in fact, Eesti Energia is also making investments in certain old blocks in order to bring the sulphur and nitrogen allocations to the level of environmental requirements in Europe. These investments are significant and certainly worth doing. We hope that these investments will be 100% effective, so that we can extend the life span of several blocks for quite a long time. It's a matter of the near future. Once the investments have been made and we see the results, we can say that the life expectancy of certain blocks is longer because they have been achieved in line with European requirements. Despite all this and despite the amendment of the European Industrial Emissions Directive, which has taken place in the meantime (in contrast to this 2016 standard), we must also invest in new blocks. This is for the reason put forward earlier: time simply does not wait. At present, one investment decision has been taken by the company, the other investment decision has to be made in accordance with the contract concluded during 2012. Whether this decision is in the affirmative or in the negative depends again on a number of factors. The most important from the perspective of the owner, or government, is certainly our perspective on energy security, security of supply. Perhaps the company needs some support in order to make the necessary investments for Estonia so that they are not missed. This concerns this second decision in 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U33	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U34	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You said I was manipulating certain subjects. But I want to thank you for using this remote control to educate us and the public on energy issues that are really necessary. But in the context of large companies, I did not say that they could not save their energy costs in any way. I'm sure they will. Just new companies that consume a lot of energy do not come to a country where the cost of energy is high.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U35	Thank you. There was no question. We must also look at the fact that the decision we had to make was, in some ways, Estonia's international obligation. But it was also a sensible decision in the long term when we decided to enter the so-called open electricity market. This decision, which concerned "great consumers" in Estonian terms, which means that we opened up the market in part, has received so- and so-and-so reactions. We know, of course, what the market price is compared to the regulated price. But I would point out that it is not right to criticise that the export capacity or competitiveness of Estonian companies decreased as a result. If we look at the cost structure of companies on a sector-by-sector basis, this competitive advantage of so-called cheaper electricity is actually self-fraud. That's what we've shown. If we look more broadly at the export of industrial companies, we can see that despite the change in the electricity market, Estonian exports have increased considerably. True, there are companies for which such things may be difficult. During the crisis, we proposed a 'business support package'. We assessed in KredEx whether the difficulties faced by a company in difficulties under the economic crisis are temporary and result from the crisis, or whether these problems are structural, and they are simply inevitably competitive. It makes no sense for us to keep a company that has no perspective and is unable to make the relevant decisions. How long do we keep them? How long do we deal with self-deception? It is easier to make a structural change and move forward with competitive companies. Here, I think the opening up of the electricity market will certainly give a fairer picture of the competitiveness of our companies than so-called self-deception. The worst that can happen is when companies one day have no electricity at all or have to buy electricity from third countries at a completely uncontrolled price.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U36	Honourable fellows! Do you have any more questions? No, it's not. Dear Minister, Thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U37	We will go to the third inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, Lembit Kaljuvee, Aadu Must, Peeter Võsa, Viktor Vassiliev, Lauri Laas, Priit Toobal, Olga Sõtnik, Jüri Ratas, Tarmo Tamm, Eldar Efendiev, Inara Luis, Vladimir Velman, Deniss Borodich, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Heimar Lenk, Esther Tuiksoo, Marika Tuus, Aivar Riisalu and Yana Toom. The inquiry has been submitted on 29 August 2011 and the subject is the allocation of EUR 2,635 million to private companies without public procurement. Reply by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair Kalev Kallo to introduce the questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U38	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, By the time the inquiry was submitted, it had become known to the public through the media that Nordecon AS and Ramboll Eesti AS, based on Eesti Energia, the Road Administration and private capital, will start the project OSAMAT, under which the oil shale ash will be tested in concrete mixtures, which will then be used for the mass stabilisation of the soil in the construction of highways. The cost of carrying out the pilot project is EUR 2,7 million. The well-known fact is that the stabilisation of oil shale ash began in the Estonian SSR already in 1961. Supposedly, the first object was a 0,5 km section of road on the island of Jõhvi, on the highway of Valga, built by the Road Construction Government No 3. During the period from 1 January 1986 to 120000 tonnes of oil shale ash per year was used. To date, nearly 1,000 kilometres of oil shale ash - stabilized coatings have been preserved during that period. A number of research and protected thesis have been carried out in this area. As the last major study, the Teede Tehnokeskus, AS, will be available to the public in 2005 "Study on the condition of oil shale ash-stabilised coatings built in the seventies and eighties of the previous century." Oil shale ash has been recognised as a prospective road construction material more than 40 years ago, and therefore suitable technologies and methods of use have been taught to future road builders at Tallinn University of Technology for at least the last 30 years. Since this issue is considered as innovation in the construction landscape within the framework of this project, for which a significant amount has been allocated to a private company for research, test sections and the acquisition of the necessary technology without an appropriate competition, we have a whole range of questions. Meanwhile, on 19 September, a fairly comprehensive overview of the fruitful cooperation between AS Nordecon and several ministries also appeared in Äripäev. The principle has always been one: AS Nordecon wins the competition with an undersell, and the contracting authorities make up for this deficit through various cash-in-porting schemes. One possible reason for the last great support is that Toomas Luman, the great owner of AS Nordecon, belongs to the AS Eesti Energia Council. This rather thorough material, which sometimes appeared in Äripäev, makes our questions even more topical. We therefore ask the Minister to respond to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U39	Thank you! I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U40	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable questioners, members of the Riigikogu! The first question: "Estonia has been engaged in this area for over half a century. Revolutionary technology, which is the basis for research, has also been used in Finland for years. Please explain whether this is not plagiarism in handling information between new technologies and existing knowledge. " The name of the project is OSAMAT in short: o is derived from the English word oil, i.e. the English word shale, a English word ash and mat means material, i.e. oil shale ash material. This name is important because there should also be the website www.osamat.ee, which provides information about this project. The aim of this project is to use oil shale ash for the in-depth stabilisation of weak and insecure soils, so-called mass stabilisation. Mass-stabilising helps to prevent large mountain masses from being transported to the road soil to replace peat soils. It is true that mass stabilisation technology has been developed in Finland and Scandinavia in recent years, while for logical reasons oil shale ash is not used there, but rather relatively expensive cement, as well as coal and shale. Thus, there is no practical experience of using oil shale ash in mass stabilisation. A number of positive environmental aspects would also be present if the option of using shale ash more widely. The use of shale ash would reduce the costs of storing it on ash fields, save substantial quantities of sand and gravel, and avoid the need to produce a large volume of cement for the same purpose. As regards the fact that Estonia has dealt with this issue in the past, it must be said that the material preserved during the tests carried out during the Estonian SSR has been processed, but in the meantime the composition of both technology and partly the ash used has changed significantly or significantly from the point of view of use, which is why the OSAMAT project is necessary to explain the possibilities of using ash. The difference between the technology used at the time, the accuracy of the dosage, the quality of the work, the methodology for analysing environmental impacts, as well as the recipes for test mixtures developed in Ramboll's Finnish laboratories, should be taken into account. The tests carried out together with the laboratory tests provide sufficient information to prepare European Union standards, and oil shale fly ash is also used for the first time in the new eighth block of Eesti Energia power plant, where oil shale is burned using the rotating fluid layer method. The oil shale ash generated in the eighth block can be used for mass stabilisation of the soil without even adding cement. (This is the hypothesis.) There is also a good perspective for a new blend of oil shale ash produced in old dust combustion boilers that have recently installed sulphur filters. The latter oil shale ash can save the use of plaster, as these ashes produce plaster intermediate products that provide the necessary additional strength for the concrete mixtures. A brief summary, in answer to the first question: Studies carried out in Estonia during the Soviet period are not usable because the situation has changed, the composition of technology and oil shale ash has changed. These studies have also not been carried out anywhere else, as oil shale ash is not used in Finland, as I said. The second question: "Why is there no public competition organised by the Public Road Administration and/or Eesti Energia to carry out such an expensive procurement? " It is a research and development service. For R &amp; D services, the Public Procurement Act allows you to find a partner even without using a standard procurement service. It is currently funded through a project implemented under LIFE+, which is why the LIFE+ OSAMAT project is a multi-party R &amp; D activity, the results of which are made public and usable in the public interest. Now for the project's progress story. In 2009, Eesti Energia, who has been the initiator of this project, decided to apply for co-financing from the LIFE+ programme of the European Union for this project. Since the project's central research activity is testing oil shale ash on the highway section and Eesti Energia has no road construction competence, it was necessary to include a road construction company. Eesti Energia organised a competition during which three major road construction companies in Estonia were contacted. These included Nordecon, Teede REV 2 and Talter AS, currently known as Lemminkäinen Eesti AS. Their interest in this research project was clarified. Two companies expressed their wish to become partners in the project, Talter AS and Nordecon. They were provided with an appropriate questionnaire to explain the seriousness of the interest and readiness to carry out research on oil shale ash as well as the subsequent implementation of the results in civil engineering in general. After receiving the reply, a separate meeting was held with both parties. One important condition for Eesti Energia was that companies contribute their financial and technical resources to this research and development project. The information obtained in the analysis of Eesti Energia was thoroughly taken into account and based on the decision taken, Nordecon was taken as the co-partner of the project. Just in case, I would stress that such decisions are not taken at the company board level, but at the company's 'project management' level, which I have also been assured by the company's management board. At the same time, Eesti Energia proposed that the Estonian Road Administration participate in the project and co-finance it. All parties agreed in writing to participate in the project for the funding request. The OSAMAT organisation, together with the funding, is therefore as follows: the European Commission's funding is 1.1 million euros, Eesti Energia as a coordinating beneficiary with an own contribution of approximately 400000 euros, Nordecon, whose own contribution is approximately 400000 euros and the co-financing of the Road Administration is up to 700000 euros (this depends on the actual cost of certain works during the project). The third question: "Why are there no companies involved in this group that have long-term experience of working in this field? "The organisation formed to implement the project, which includes Eesti Energia, Nordecon and the Road Administration and the consultancy company Ramboll Eesti AS involved as subcontractors, has sufficient knowledge and experience. Both Nordecon and Ramboll have great experience in this area. In Estonian terms, new technology is primarily a case of mass stabilisation. At the same time, it should be stressed that research, laboratory testing, the design of mass stabilisation mixtures, in which Ramboll is one of Europe's leading companies, is an important part of the project. The construction of mass-stabilisation test sections is also planned to involve the companies of the northern neighbours with the relevant experience. The fourth question: "On what grounds has it been decided to give taxpayers' money to a private operator without a competition? " In answer to the second question, I explained how this project had been developed. The European Commission, as the largest donor, would not have approved this project if there had been any irregularities. The fifth question: "It is well known that Nordecon AS was able to complete the work on reconstruction of the section of road that was won in the competition more than a year after the deadline stipulated in the contract. Why was this money allocated to one of the most incompetent road construction companies with corrupt features? For the fact that the company is constantly owned by the party supporters of today's government union? " I don't comment on your speculative claims, they just aren't true. I said that the largest donor of the project is the European Commission, almost 50%, not the Estonian state. The links proposed in the question are arbitrary. The linking of the section of the Narva road referred to in the question to this project is also unfounded. At the time when the OSAMAT application was submitted to the European Commission, the contract for the construction of this section of the road had not yet been concluded, namely the application for the OSAMAT project was submitted to the European Commission in September 2009. Question 6: "Please explain how it is excluded that this target group will not lead to corruption in the future! How is it guaranteed that the internal technical information collected by the proposed tests and tests will not be used for the benefit of the private operator in ongoing and planned projects? " All information about the results of the OSAMAT project is public and can be used by all interested parties. Publicity, including press events, participation in conferences, writing scientific articles, is an important part of the project, which will begin as soon as the initial results of the study have become available after the test sections have been established. The condition for disclosure is also accompanied by the European Commission's co-financing. The European Commission regularly monitors the progress of the project, monitors compliance with the rules. At the start of the project, the participating companies had a clear interest in making wider use of this technology in the future. This is a research subject to the condition of co-financing that its results are public and accessible. The results of the studies will be made available to everyone on the website www.osamat.ee which I refer to. I will answer the seventh and eighth questions together, because they are essentially related: "What are the additional equipment needed to carry out the project, which is necessary for a private company to acquire for taxpayers' money, and whose equipment and technology will remain in use and available after the end of the project? When is it planned to allocate the corresponding financial resources to other road construction companies operating in Estonia, so that all other road construction companies can obtain the same necessary equipment and equipment? "No equipment or fixed assets will be allocated to the companies involved in the project. It is true that, in the interests of the project, certain special equipment is rented, I call a hydraulic blender and a mobile dose selector necessary for high-quality testing of mass stabilisation technology. They are not acquired by the companies, but leased under the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U41	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. On the question of finding a partner, you explained that the offer was made to three companies and that negotiations were later held, but in Äripäev Pertens, the manager of AS Talter, announced that no negotiations were held. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U43	Thank you. I have not read this Äripäev and have not spoken to the person you mentioned on this subject, but I have read what has been presented to me by Eesti Energia and I have no reason to doubt it. Today, I also spoke personally with the project manager, who described the competition that took place and the whole idea and the situation in 2009. In some ways, I understand your questions, and I understand that on Äripäev you have a page to fill out with something exciting. I've played a bit of a journalist myself. I dare say that this is a normal situation when a company needs a partner for certain functions of research and development. It is not possible to organise a public procurement competition here, because the problem is how to achieve such capacity that there is the potential to solve this scientific problem in such a way that the solution is credible and acceptable in the day-to-day economic activity. That's the problem. I'm not a tea engineer, I'm not a material expert, but I've graduated from a special physics class, and I'm generally able to navigate these things. As regards any reference to some Soviet ash research or similar, I assure you that there is nothing to do with them. Because, friends, if there were anything to be done, do you think that Eesti Energia or those private companies sitting on these piles of ash would not sell this material everywhere? This is a very complex scientific-developmental problem, we need to find technology, we need to find an answer to whether and if so, how this ash can be used to solve a number of road-building problems. Of course, it is possible to ask the project manager of Eesti Energia who made a decision and looked for these partners. This is his responsibility within Eesti Energia. The reasons are different and, for me, they are perfectly understandable. I don't want to say these reasons here. If you give me a more precise question as to why the company considered Nordecon's interest in and contribution to this research project to be greater, then my initial assessment is certainly that the company was right. When looking for a partner, an assessment was made of who has more potential. The Public Procurement Act provides for this method of finding a partner when ordering research and development work. It could have been done without a competition. You referred to Toomas Luman. I confirm that the Council does not even know of such a decision. However, these are decisions taken on a relatively daily basis at the level of the company's management board or project manager. In the Estonian Energy Council, it has always occurred from time to time that decisions need to be made that involve the economic interests of some people, because there are several Estonian entrepreneurs. Of course, this person completely reduces himself from making such a decision. But this decision does not have to be taken and it has not had to be made at the level of the Estonian Energy Council. That was the answer to a possible hint that I don't know anything about speculation about corruption and all that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U44	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U45	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I would like to sincerely believe that there are no manifestations of corruption in this process, and I believe that all that you are saying is true of the servant. It's a different trend that makes me anxious. You claim that such decisions are made at project management level. 2.6 million euros seems to be a ridiculously small amount, but if we recalculate this old tradition into Estonian kroons, it is about 40 million kroons. Eesti Energia is constantly engaged in strange things, resulting in constant increases in the price of energy for both companies and private individuals, and it now turns out that there are 40 million kroons available to project managers. Do you consider such a principle of leadership to be justified and justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U46	Don't start this discussion, Mr. Riisalu! You've been an entrepreneur yourself, but you've become a sort of unstoppable air swallower, and then you shoot out what comes to your head. It's not correct. This is a very serious research and development project. Of course, whoever becomes this partner also depends in some way on a substantive assessment. I don't think it makes any sense to bring it to the Riigikogu or to take it to what level. Naturally, the company's board of directors is aware of this. But I would like to point out once again that the European Commission is the biggest donor to this project, with more than 50% of its participation. It's a research and development project.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U47	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! When this cooperation agreement was concluded with one company, was it not planned or discussed that it might have been more meaningful to start such cooperation with a university, such as Tallinn University of Technology? Perhaps it would have been much cheaper and more useful to the university on the other hand? The university could have done research.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U49	The project has different objectives. In the course of the project, I think people with academic knowledge will also be involved. Currently, those who allocate their financial resources are participating in the project. I gave you an overview of the amount of money placed in the project. I repeat: more than 50% of the contribution is made by the European Commission, the amount of the participation of the Road Administration depends on the final cost of the so-called test objects, it has been agreed with a certain formula, and the participation of Eesti Energia and partner (Eesti Energia with about 15% and partner with 14% of the planned cost of the project).
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U50	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U51	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Thank you for your answer to the question. But I did not understand why the ash of oil shale today is different from the ash that has been obtained, say, 40 years ago and whether it is really necessary to spend almost 40 million Estonian kroons or 2.6 million euros to find this difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U53	Dear Minister, You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U54	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a very specific question. Which institution, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Eesti Energia or any other institution will be able to see these details on the website, see how this public procurement, competition, and get acquainted with the results you have just discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U55	Thank you. As I said, Eesti Energia was looking for a partner in this research and development work. In commercial terms, Eesti Energia is the most interested in this project, because if it is possible to start using oil shale ash essentially for the purposes I mentioned above, then the economic winner is Eesti Energia. So this is a business project on Eesti Energia. I've been describing his partner's search. I believe that if you communicate with Eesti Energia, you will receive enough information about this so-called partner competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U56	Thank you. An unexpected answer: our Prime Minister is in chemo education, I think he would give a much better answer than I would. Yeah, there's a big difference between ash and ash here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that there was no need to tender for research and that all these partners were sought during the negotiations. However, some similar projects have also been carried out in Finland, although not in relation to the use of oil shale ash. Would it have been conceivable that Finland, which has some practical experience, could have been one of its research partners? This might have saved the financial resources of the Estonian state. If the research had been carried out, all the standards were confirmed, then if it had been possible to sell oil shale ash, the benefits would have been realised.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U58	Thank you. As I was referring to, one of the sub-partners or partners of the project is Ramboll, a company that also has a laboratory in Finland. This is a large company. He also has a company in Estonia. He's also a partner in the project.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U59	Dear Minister, Thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U60	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to make a long speech. The lack of organisation of public procurement was thoroughly justified by the fact that it was a research and development project and that everyone put their money in it. As we have heard, 1.1 million euros from the European Union, 0.4 million from Nordecon, 0.4 million from Eesti Energia and 0.7 million from the Road Administration. At this point, it must be said that it is not good for Nordecon to put $0.4 million on his own, then to get 2.2 million straight, and to continue to deal with something that should be clear to everyone. Nor is it quite certain that Mr Pertens, whose words are quoted in Äripäev, lied that no negotiations were held. This was probably the case, since the partner had already been selected and identified. These doubts, also mentioned in this four - page Äripäev review, seem to be quite well founded. The minister said he hadn't read the article. That's too bad! This story was on four pages, and on the front page there were large photos referring to one of the main topics of Äripäev. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs, business day is probably read from time to time. Therefore, these doubts, which were raised in the paper, and which were also brought to the attention of the heirs, did not seem to me to have been refuted in the answers. Since the government has allegedly taken a decision and extended the activities of the kapo to large state companies, I think we should continue to ask the Minister for the Interior, because this deal does not seem to be free of the sense of corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U61	Thank you! Aivar Riisalu, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U62	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber, and above all a good minister! I did not want to come to this remote control, but I come here because it is unacceptable to me, to say the least, that the members of the Government of the Republic of Estonia (today, specifically the Minister of Economic Affairs of the Republic of Estonia) behave with members of the Riigikogu. Estonia is a parliamentary republic. If the members of the Riigikogu have questions for the minister, the minister does not need to assess who I was or who I am, what I think or what I think. Therefore, all these thematic developments that talk about the problems of democracy in Estonia, in fact, mildly said, are very, very serious. Now on the subject. I listened with great interest today that Eesti Energia is making 40 million investment decisions at the level of project managers. For a good cause. [[Interjection by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U63	Dear Minister, I'm asking you not to interfere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U64	There you go! I hope that the verbatim also goes into the report that the minister even intervenes in the speech of a member of the Riigikogu. [[Interjection by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U65	Good waitress! I'm asking you to stop for a minute! Mr. Minister! I beg you not to interrupt the waitress! Please, good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U66	We have not received clear answers about the activities of Eesti Energia in the United States. We do not have a clear answer to what will be done by Eesti Energia in Jordan. We have no clear answers, how many million were paid by the IPO organized by Eesti Energia. In the case of Eesti Energia, we do not have clear answers to many of the questions, but the price of electricity is rising, which is perfectly natural, because we are about to go into the free market of energy and in this case the price of electricity must rise. So what is the ultimate goal of Eesti Energia? My good colleague Igor Gräzin has said a very beautiful sentence, addressing it to Sandor Liive: "Sandor Liive, you are not a businessman. You are a social worker whose job it is to sell competitive and low-cost electricity to Estonian businesses and citizens, because it is needed by our society." I do not want to draw parallels, but as a member of the Centre Party, I claim that I do not like the many decisions made in Tallinn City Government, for example. At the same time, I see how the various decisions made at the level of project management at Tallinn City Government are methodologically attacked and then everything is just fine. If we, as Members of Parliament, are trying to find out about the problems raised in the free press, then we will simply be insulted. We get to abuse the Minister of the Republic of Estonia. I think the Minister would have a reason to resign!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U67	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U68	We are going to the fourth inquiry by Kadri Simson, Aivar Riisalu, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korb, Deniss Borodich, Lauri Laas, Aadu Must, Jüri Ratas, Kalle Laane, Tarmo Tamm, Enn Esemaa, Inara Luis and Mikhail Stalnukhin. The inquiry was submitted on 15 September 2011 and concerns Eesti Post and what is happening there. The question is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask the representative of the heirs of the Riigikogu to introduce the questioning of the speech chair Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U69	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, thank you very much. The inquiry is related to the Estonian Post. In the spring of this year AS Ekspress Grupp and Eesti Meedia and the state company Eesti Post signed a pre-contractual agreement on the purchase and sale of AS Express Post, which deals with journalism and mail delivery. According to different data, the transaction price amounts to 2.6 million euros. The Express Group has explained the sale with a desire to focus more and more on electronic media. Eesti Post has explained its purchase interest with the hope of making the delivery of newspapers and magazines more effective. The conclusion of the final agreement between companies is currently behind the clearance of concentrations by the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority took up additional time four months ago to examine in detail whether the merger of two postal companies would distort competition in the market. The reason for the further investigation is the objection of seven major letter transmitters to the wishes of Eesti Post to buy the competitor Express Post. According to Ahti Source, CEO of Itella Information, the state shuts down the market for letters opened two years ago when Express Post joins Eesti Post. According to Express Post's annual report for 2010, the company's turnover has decreased by a total of 7,8% in the last two years. The biggest drop in turnover has been in the delivery home of the periodical period, caused by decreased circulation and price changes. In this context, we have five questions for Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to which we are awaiting an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U70	Thank you! I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to answer questions from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear heirs, members of the Riigikogu! The first question: "When two years ago it was decided to open the post market in Estonia, what are the reasons why competition in the post market is once again restricted? "The Competition Authority of 16 September. By a decision, the concentration of Eesti Post and Express Post was prohibited. This is undoubtedly not a restriction of competition in the provision of postal services. On the contrary, according to Article 22 (1) of the Competition Act, when assessing the concentration, the Competition Authority is based on the need to maintain and develop competition, which is why the Competition Authority was not in a position to permit the concentration of Eesti Post and Express Post. At the same time, it should be stressed that the authorisation of a concentration for a possible merger of two companies does not automatically imply a restriction of competition, but really depends on the situation on one or the other service market. Restrictions on competition could be discussed if certain restrictions on entry into the market were introduced into the law. However, according to the current law, any applicant, i.e. a new company providing postal services, will continue to be able to enter the postal market. The second question: "The transaction price has been agreed at EUR 2,6 million. Express Post was also interested in purchasing the company of the Itella group in Finland, but the transaction was not completed because they said the price was too high. How is it ensured that the price of the transaction is favourable to Eesti Post and that there is no unreasonable spending of taxpayers' money? Why did the preliminary agreement coincide with the pre-election period? " Eesti Post considered the acquisition of Express Post as an investment. This return has been calculated for each investment, and it has also been calculated what would happen if Eesti Post did not make this investment. The negotiations for the preliminary agreement were launched in the second half of 2010 and signed when it had been coordinated by all parties. There is therefore no reason to believe that the letter of intent was deliberately signed in the pre-election period. If the negotiations on the advance agreement had been shorter or longer, the signing of the agreement would have remained at a different time. After examining the materials related to the investments of Eesti Post, I can confirm that the investment is worthwhile within a reasonable period of time according to conservative estimates. Question 3: "Estonian Post has also entered the parcel terminal market since the beginning of this year, which has so far been dominated by SmartPOST, which was still based on Estonian capital until the summer of last year, but then the owners decided to sell the company. Why didn't Eesti Post buy SmartPOST at the time, when there was a plan to enter the parcel terminal market anyway, and must now invent the so-called bicycle? " The Estonian Post's parcel terminal network was opened on 22 August. Eesti Post also considered the possibility of purchasing SmartPOST, but the seller's expected price level did not ensure the profitability of the business project, according to Eesti Post, the price offered by Eesti Post was not suitable for the seller. Eesti Post chose Integer, a Polish company, as its partner in entering the parcel terminal market. Pl who has long experience in establishing a network of parcel terminals and their technology has already proven itself in several countries. The partner with experience was chosen to avoid the situation where Eesti Post would be involved in the invention of a bicycle. Question 4: "What is the vision of Eesti Post for improving the quality of universal postal services in the coming years? " The obligation to provide universal postal services has been imposed on Eesti Post for five years until 8 October 2014 by decision of the Competition Authority. In July-October 2010, according to § 43 of the Postal Act, the Competition Authority carried out a study to check the quality of the universal postal service provided by Eesti Post. The purpose of the inspection was to examine how the collection and delivery of simple letters in the city and rural areas would work and how long it would take. A total of 900 letters were posted in counties and cities. The control post included 15 counties and 180 mailboxes. Of the 900 letters taken into account in the delivery control, 826 were delivered on time to the addressees, so the proportion of deliveries delivered on time is 91.8%. A day later, 6.5% of the letters were sent to the addressees' mailbox. With a delay of two days or more, 1.1% of the letters were sent to the addressees' mailbox. It should be added that according to Paragraph 37 (5) of the Postal Act, the universal postal service provider must deliver to the recipient at least 90% of the items of correspondence forwarded in the form of a simple consignment on the working day following the day on which the transfer takes place. In addition, Eesti Post has been involved in monitoring the movement of letters since 2005. The results of the monitoring show that Eesti Post was the tenth highest among 36 countries in terms of quality of service. Question 5: "The Competition Board has read the request submitted by Eesti Post to raise the national fee for sending simple letters to EUR 0,45, which leads to a 28.6% price increase for consumers when sending simple letters. During the summer, the basic electricity tariff and the network service fee were also increased. How have you been satisfied with the recent activities of the Competition Authority and have you not approved the price increases too easily? " The Competition Authority based its analysis of the request for a change in the price of Eesti Post mainly on the requirement of affordability of fees, which means that, even after the amendment of the regulation, the possible fees for the universal postal service of Eesti Post must remain affordable. The fees for sending national letters changed four years ago; the fees for sending international letters were last changed ten years ago. In addition, it can be noted that the remuneration of a consignment of mail in the form of a domestic simple consignment remains well below the cost price of the service after the price increase. This shows that the Competition Authority took into account, in particular, in its analysis, the affordability of the universal postal service price also after price increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U72	Good fellows! Do you have any questions? There are no questions. I thank the Minister. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. An inquiry has been answered. Good fellows! We have now discussed all the enquiries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U73	We've reached the free microphone. After my hammer strike, please enroll in a free microphone! I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U74	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to talk to you about promoting mafia relations, which is unfortunately dealt with by a member of the Estonian Government, and he does so systematically. Every suffering will eventually run out. Ten days ago, I attended a focus seminar in Narva. This seminar discussed possible developments in Ida-Viru and specifically in Narva in the coming years. The first speaker was Mr Siim Valmar Kiisler, Regional Minister. He had many interesting and questionable moments in his speech. But this time, people, those who have brains and who can think, were pretty badly affected by an idea that he has been consistently spreading for quite a long time. In fact, as an important factor in the poor performance of the major cities of Ida-Viru and Ida-Viru, the Minister noted that the problem is that these municipalities do not have their own mafia. Mr. Minister, like one of the largest mob musicians in Estonia today, praised Tartu, praised Kuressaare. Why? Because they have their own mafia in Tallinn, i.e. a group of people who can influence the decisions taken by the government. Our problem in Ida-Virumaa was that we didn't have that kind of mafia. Look, gentlemen! Suppose there's some kind of public procurement involving three or four companies. How do you appreciate when two or three companies start using their connections, your former classmates, classmates, to make the decision they need? It would clearly be corruption. The Constitution states that everyone is equal before the law. The principle of equality is one of the most important, it is the basis of our life and legislation. To what does the Minister for Regional Affairs urge us? He invites us to purchase certain groups of characters here in Tallinn to take advantage of their contacts, their circle of friends, so that we can influence the decisions taken in government, some ministries, etc. It's purely corrupt. It has to be understood. That's a mafia attitude. The saddest thing is, it's not just the regional minister. Media representatives will also be involved in this. For them, it's the slogan Kisler offers us that the problems of Ida-Viru lie in the fact that we don't have our own mafia, like some kind of candy. It affects people who later consume this media. I was once a crown, and as a young soldier, all I ever dreamed of was living under one law. This is the only way to achieve the same equality. We now have a country in which we live in a barracks: some have to serve and work, and others get everything that is actually assigned to the whole collective. With this speech, I would like to send a small message to the Government of the Republic: anyone can talk nonsense, but it must not be done with such a loud voice at events of this magnitude and so methodically. Unfortunately, Kissler said this not only in Narva ten days ago, but also in Narva-Jõesuu in May and before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U75	Thank you! Aivar Riisalu, co-worker of the Riigikogu Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U76	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that the free microphone has remained unearned in the Riigikogu as an instrument that is used too little. It also seems that everything we are trying to do in this country on behalf of the people, the people who have chosen us here, is quite pointless because the situation that has developed in this country is becoming unbearable. I came back here because I'm in shock because of an incident in the hall today. This incident shows that, in my example, a member of the government did today what they would actually be happy to do for all of us, only some of them are not so brave. In some ways, the Minister for Economic Affairs must be acknowledged. He's got what's on his mind, the tongue. Somebody else is just a little more polite. I come round to basic truths: it is equal treatment, it is a question of whose own this country is. Today it seems to me that this country is a very narrow circle of people who think that this stupid crowd, who tends to vote for a beautiful life in elections, is not at all for those people who are trying to lead after the elections. This situation was particularly evident when the Centre Party dared to come out with its candidate in the presidential elections. At that point, too, I was forced to admit and experience that I accidentally happened to be a director in a situation that the ruling faction did not like. Even then, things tended to get pretty bad sometimes. If we get these signs in a row and in a row, I will ask where Estonia is going. From morning to night, I have to hear, at times, in the form of a joke, that once again some middle party has done some sort of thing somewhere. We will never hear another political force do something negative. Today, one committee was able to talk about the Ministry of Defence's public procurement. The result was that almost everything is awfully good, some people were punished in disciplinary action, but basically everything is great. If, on the other hand, we look at cases where city officials have been literally arrested for half a year for a few thousand kroons, and so on, I lose faith. We heard today how 40 million kroons will be issued at project manager level, and then I will get the Minister of the Economy to insult the fact that I was an entrepreneur. But I remembered that I was an entrepreneur, and I would have liked to have co-ordinated the spending of this 40 million kroons myself, but I didn't even know that such project management was planned. I would have asked for this 40 million kroons, or 2.6 million euros, nicely and then involved specialists. By the way, for example, Merko Ehitus is perfectly capable of building roads. Somehow he's not gonna be a part of those pies. On the contrary, his great owner has been under trial for a long time. What it ends with, nobody knows. It is said that the country is beautiful, fair, transparent and equally accessible to all citizens. Forgive me, but I don't believe it anymore!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-17_U77	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm shutting down the free microphone. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. Thank you! I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 4.40 p.m.
