ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check first! Fifty-seven comms signed up to be present, no 44. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U2	The first is Lembit Kaljuvee's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U3	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You and all these people are right to say that a government leader does not have to intervene in the procedures for determining and approving the various components of the price of electricity. That's usually the case. However, the Prime Minister should intervene if a monopolistic energy company, supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, consistently pursues an anti-domestic and large consumer electricity price policy, which is evidenced by the further request of Eesti Energia to increase its network charges by 13%. My question is: why is Estonia's home consumer already paying 10.4 cents for one kilowatt-hour of electricity if the amount in the Nordic countries is 10 cents?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U4	I fully agree with you: neither the Riigikogu nor the government will have to deal with setting prices, either with bread, bread or electricity prices. In a sector where the market is in the hands of a monopoly company, the price should be set by the Competition Authority. I am convinced that this application for Eesti Energia will also be dealt with in a very thorough manner by the Competition Authority and will make a decision that is acceptable to consumers and will also guarantee energy production in the future. The comparison with other countries on electricity prices is appropriate and, in my opinion, sobering. Just before I came here, I printed out Eurostat's electricity prices for private and industrial consumers and I must say that there were no very big surprises in this ranking. The surprise is certainly to you that Estonia has the cheapest electricity after Bulgaria in the European Union. Of course, I do not want to say now that we should lose this last place in that ranking and push forward. I love this penultimate place, and let's keep it that way!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U5	Please, Mr Kaljuvee, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U6	Thank you. We know that electricity prices are basically made up of three components. I mean, the price a person or a company pays. One component is the cost of electricity generation, the other is network charges and the third is taxes. I do not know which price you were talking about, but when we are talking about the consumer price, in the case of Estonia, the data you have mentioned are not true. I've never seen a bill like this. I've been looking at the company reports and talking to people in the Nordic countries about what they're paying. The situation in Estonia is not rosy. If we were at the back end, then really...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U7	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U8	The question is: what happens if we go to the free market and the price rises by 30 to 40%? What will the price be in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U9	When we go to the free market, there is also a free market price in Estonia. What the free market price is going to be, it's hard for me to predict. It will probably be Nord Pool's price, but whether Nord Pool's price after Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania join this market will rise or fall is very difficult to predict. The components of the electric bill can really be divided as you shared. I have usually heard that such a breakdown is also followed by the accusation that taxes have been greatly raised and therefore the price of electricity has risen. I want to say in advance that this argument is not true. Taxes have not been raised and therefore the price of electricity will not rise. The last of the tax increases was an increase in the VAT rate, but it was a long time ago. However, I would stick to my claim that Estonia is second in the European Union in terms of electricity prices. The cheapest electricity for both domestic and industrial customers is in Bulgaria, while the second is in Estonia. And this statement is true, both when we talk about the price of electricity without taxes and when we talk about the price of electricity with taxes. Everyone can go to Eurostat's website and look at these tables. My point is true.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U10	Please, Mr Kaljuvee, the second point to clarify.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U11	Thank you. I'd still come back to those price components. In my opinion, network charges are currently unreasonable. If we look at other countries, then the biggest component of the price is still the price of electricity generation or the market price, after which there will be either transmission fees or taxes. But we already have 40% of the price of electricity in Estonia, and now that the core network wants to raise the price and the distribution network also, we are going out of proportion at all. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U12	In my opinion, the proportions between electricity production prices and network charges have usually been around 50: 50 and, in the case of Estonia, this distribution has been more or less equal for a long time. If I look again at the bar chart in my possession, I can see that, for example, in 2005, we had a network service component of 2.79 euros and the cost of electricity generation was 2.67 euros, i.e. more or less the same. If we take the 1st of July 2011 there is already this increase planned, then these figures are 3.30 and 3.07. In broad terms, it can be said that more or less equal are these components. I would stand firm and not comment on this request for an increase in prices. I have complete confidence in the Competition Authority and do not want to interfere with their activities. Sometimes I've sprung my emotions, and I'm sorry that these emotional statements have been interpreted as influencing the Competition Authority. I don't want to be the Prime Minister who puts his fist on the table, and the Competition Authority is about to do what the Prime Minister wants. May they be objective and joyful!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U13	Thank you. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I promise you two issues registered on the ground. Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister! I was also honored to see how you said at the government press conference: 'The electricity price increase plan is bullshit. ' And, oh, wonder, the price of electricity didn't go up. Now, after the election, what's happened to you? It's like you've been switched around, you're very careful when you talk about the price of electricity. Wouldn't you like to repeat your sentence and say once again that the electricity price increase plan is bullshit? Perhaps this will delay the increase in electricity prices once more.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U15	Man has a tendency to justify everything he's done and what he's said. I'd stick to what I said at the press conference. This application was an absolute nonsense, and I have the feeling that those who requested it also understood it and withdrew the request at the time. The current application also differs significantly from the previous application for external examination, i.e. if you look at the price applied for. If we were talking about a 19% increase, now we're talking about a 13% increase. However, I would leave my emotions inwards on the current application and not start to make assessments before the Competition Authority has done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U16	Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! I remember eight years ago our group met with the then leader of Eesti Energia and it would probably be more appropriate to address this issue to this particular instance, but I am still asking. He said that if we don't do something about upgrading our Soviet networks, they'll all collapse sooner or later. That is why we will not escape this price increase. My question is quite general: if these price increases and these necessary investments are not made, when will it happen that these things will actually collapse? It is known that blackouts are no stranger to our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U18	I do not like this black and white approach at all, that if these investments and price increases are not made, when everything will collapse. We pay network charges all the time. We have paid years ago, we are paying now, we will pay in the future and in the future probably more than we do now. And for that network fee, you have to upgrade the network. All these black and white claims that if we don't raise the price, the nets will collapse, that is, if we stick to the old word, it's stupid.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U19	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U20	The next question is from my colleague Kajar Lember to the Minister for Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U21	Thank you, manager. Good minister! There is a lot of talk about inclusion and taking into account stakeholders. When you started as regional minister in the previous government, you were supported by the point of the coalition agreement that you support the partnership between state and local government associations and the strengthening of local government associations. The fact that this point was not met is now history. But on 9 March this year, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments made a joint return to the parties negotiating the coalition and put forward their proposals for the development of regional policy. Can you answer why, in essence, none of the proposals of the two representative organisations with the broadest bottom in these areas have reached a government action programme? Is it because the positions of these organisations are not important to you or because negotiators and signatories have not just listened to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U22	Thank you, Mr. Lember. When we read the chapter on local administration of the coalition agreement, I think the principles that are written in it reflect quite well the views expressed for years by the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments. The Coalition Agreement repeatedly emphasises the role and cooperation of local governments, the strengthening of an independent income base, regional balance and the strengthening of local democracy. I think they are very well in line with the views of the national self-government associations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U23	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U24	Thank you. As a first question, I would ask a little bit more about the fact that the IRL has promised a vigorous administrative reform, and that was also one of your clear messages when you went to the coalition negotiations. But we know the result. What do you intend to do in the coming years, as the political head of administrative organisation and regional policy in Estonia? The coalition partner has not supported your ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U25	I am sure that a member of the government will follow the same coalition agreement that you referred to. Accordingly, I am trying to encourage cooperation between local authorities. As we know, if there are no radical changes here, we need to assist local governments as they exist in Estonia, for example, to intensify cooperation with local authorities in developing e-services. I would like to mention, for example, that we have developed a website with many functions on the local government service portal. To date, 60 municipalities have expressed their wish to adopt it, and I think that this figure is growing rapidly. What is important is that we help local governments to cope with situations where they are obviously not always able to provide all the services at the level we want.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U26	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U27	Thank you. Perhaps one more specific issue. Most local authorities are known to have run out of money for road maintenance and maintenance. When is it planned to return the amounts earmarked for road maintenance to the pre-budget cut-off level?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U28	Yes, the coalition agreement also states that we aim to increase the share of funding for the maintenance of local roads in the overall funding of road maintenance. When it's due, I don't dare say the exact date today. Of course, it depends on how much money our country has and on the progress of the budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U29	I would now like to ask three questions registered on the spot. Colleagues Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Before the elections, the Reform Party promised the establishment of a Ministry of Rural Affairs to catch the voices of people living in the countryside. All other promises made by the Reform Party have been included in the Coalition Treaty , or rather most of the promises made by the Reform Party have been written in there , but what happened to that promise? Why didn't the coalition talks decide to set up this ministry? Why isn't the Ministry expecting this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U31	Mr Toobal, I am probably not the right person to answer that question. Here's your chance to ask the representatives of a good coalition partner. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that regional development issues are neither in Estonia nor elsewhere in Europe, nor in the wider world, rural issues today. At the moment, the question is whether or not we have centres of attraction all over the country that balance the strong pull of one region. And village life, rural life is possible when there is a strong attraction centre in the vicinity that offers people both leisure services and public services. But surely the most important thing is that there are enough jobs, and that requires strong centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U32	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The promises contained in your local administration chapter are relatively general, particularly as regards the local authorities' revenue base. We know that there are basically three components that interest municipalities, these are equalisation funds, road money and the percentage of income tax receipts. As Regional Minister, perhaps you will tell us what your proposal is if you now go back to the budget negotiations? What should be the final amount of the municipal fine-tuning fund? And what is your proposal for an increase in road maintenance money and an increase in the percentage of income tax receipts?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U34	Already in the budget negotiations this year, I proposed some increase in the share of municipalities in the distribution of income tax received. It is understandable that it is difficult to reach pre-crisis levels with one crap, but I will certainly make a proposal to move forward with it this time too. As I have already said, I will, of course, support the increase in funding for road safety, as stated in the coalition agreement. I also think that an important point is that it is included in the state budget strategy for the long-term planning of the local governments' revenue base. This, too, is a long-standing wish of national self-government associations, and now also in the agreement of the government union. This gives the municipalities greater confidence in their budget revenues. One more thing. When it comes to the Equalisation Fund, I find the Coalition Agreement to be a very interesting and significant point in the fact that citizens will be given the opportunity to name another municipality to which they will pass on part of their income tax. I think it is going to be a citizens' own-initiative fine-tuning fund that will enable people to balance the income of local governments and help those municipalities whose income base is smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U35	I would now like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Eldar Efendiev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Last autumn, the government approved the development plan for Ida-Virumaa. It is sad that this year's budget did not specify the financing of this development plan and its implementation plan. When preparing the budget for the coming year, is it planned to provide for the financing of this development plan and also to draw up a detailed plan for the implementation of the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U37	Yes, the outcome of the discussion in the government was that, in the current, tense budgetary situation, we can talk above all about ministries planning, within their own budgets, activities that will strengthen Ida-Viru County in particular. This redistribution has to be done in ministries. The question was whether we would share money across ministries or whether each ministry would do so within its own budget. This agreement was reached. However, it is a remarkable point in the action plan that a separate Ida-Viru programme must be drawn up during the new period of allocation of Structural Funds for the European Union. It already promises real funding to better address the specific problems of Ida-Virumaa that are not present in other counties.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U38	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U39	The next question is from my colleague Inara Luigas to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! Certainly, the biggest success of recent Estonia is that we have adopted the euro. And, of course, this has been achieved because the government has made a great deal of effort. But we also have to say thank you to the Estonian people that they have tightened their belts. The Estonian people love you and gave you a lot of votes in the elections, and now you can move on with your team, only doing small chariots. Apparently, the people have also forgiven you for the fact that you have recently raised excise duties, increased VAT, removed the very necessary social benefits such as the old-age pension and the funeral allowance. But for all this, we have received the euro and, together with the euro, which we recently reached 100 days of age, a real price race has started in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U41	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U42	The price increase really kills us on every front we look at. The question is this: please explain to what extent the changeover to the euro has caused the current price race!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U43	Once again, there must be a question within one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U44	I wasn't able to track exactly what you read out there. All these claims in my world don't fit, and maybe I misunderstood. When it comes to price increases in relation to the euro, I recall what I have said in the past tirelessly: that the impact of the euro on the price, the technical impact of the euro in the various countries, has been assessed from 0.1% to 0.3%. According to preliminary estimates, I am sticking to these same figures today, even though I have said this, that it is not excluded that this influence is stronger in Estonia. Given our small size, given the nominal value of the different currencies, we may also have deviations from this effect. But based on the preliminary data from Statistics, I'm sticking to these numbers right now. The effect of the euro on price increases is almost non-existent in Estonia as well. However, more detailed studies, which differ from conventional statistical surveys, are currently underway, so this assessment is initially informal. Coast subsidies and all such issues would, however, be asked to keep separate from the euro. And also the current price increase, please keep away from the euro. I can talk for a long time about the ongoing increase in prices, which is, as I have said before, the result of the rise in international food and fuel prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U45	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U46	Thank you. I am sure, Minister for Finance, that we will have to talk a lot about all the price increases here. It is certain that the euro did not directly affect price increases, but prices were raised in the shadow of the euro. On the recommendation of the European Commission and under the leadership of our Chamber of Commerce, a "fair pricing agreement" was developed. The parties to the agreement agreed that the changeover would follow good practice and not lead to undue price increases. Everyone who joined the agreement also received a sticker with the logo, which was followed by the Consumer Protection Board. Business associations and the Ministry of Finance also played a role in monitoring. My question is: how was the agreement on fair price levels monitored and where is the public information from which we can see sanctions for unfair price increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U47	Once again, I cannot accept the arguments that you made in the introduction to the euro that prices were raised in the shadow of the euro. I'm still asking you to prove it. Why do you keep blaming one poor currency unit? Why don't you tell me that in the shadow of the crown, there was an increase in prices or in the shadow of a dollar? As far as the fair pricing agreement is concerned, I am beginning to forget these details, but supervision was the responsibility of the Consumer Protection Board. The short summary is that those who joined the voluntary agreement did not indeed increase the price because of the euro, as they promised. Which doesn't mean there's no price increase at all. In January itself, the statistical price increase compared to December was zero, but this does not really mean that there have been no roundings. There were small rounds up, but there were also rounds down, and the effect is still close to zero. We have statistics on the fact that rounding down was quite real. As has been said before, for certain goods, let's say a cup of coffee or a barber's service, rounding up was certainly more for convenience or for some other reason, but our consumption is not limited to hairdressing and drinking coffee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U48	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U49	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! Yesterday I received a piece of paper containing the relevant mid-term review. These violations were still considerably more than one-two and there were also prescribed sanctions. This summary would be quite interesting to read in the wider public as well, I think many citizens of the Republic of Estonia are interested in how the changeover to the euro took place. With regard to price increases, more and more is said every day that people earning average income in Estonia are getting more and more expensive in Estonia, not to mention pensioners and other people with low incomes and the unemployed. All of this has created an awkward situation in the country. Within the framework of the euro, we can actually make very little difference, because with the changeover, we have more of a lockdown. My question is: is the Ministry of Finance and the government just going to watch prices rise, or is there something they are going to do to alleviate the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U50	Again, a bunch of claims, some crazy and some lies! What is the role of the state in curbing price increases? First, the promotion of competition and, secondly, the control of administrative prices, of course. This is basically the competence of the Competition Authority, and the Prime Minister has just answered questions on this issue. This is the most general control of price increases: it is that the state keeps its finances in balance, the state does not live in debt and it does not generate price increases with its higher demand. These are the three main responsibilities that the country has in the market economy in relation to price increases. All other interventions would end very badly in court or economically. I'm a little wobbled right now, but basically, let me remind you, we're still dealing with a market economy. So it's nice to have an exchange of ideas here, but these are economic laws, and the state has to do certain things right. And basically, he's done the right thing. Not everything is within our power, and some things need to be accepted. As far as future price increases are concerned, they are slowing down. This year we are forecasting an increase of 4.5%, but next year we are forecasting an increase of 2.8%, which is reasonable. Alas, a small country depends so much on the rest of the world. We depend on the prices of food and fuel, which are developing internationally, more than the average country. Due to the level of living, and also for climatic reasons, we have a higher share of these goods than in most other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U51	Now, three questions registered on the spot. Please first, Mr Kõiv.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U52	Minister of Finance! The impact of the euro is currently at issue. Undoubtedly, the euro has an impact on a great many things, both in Estonia and in Europe as a whole, to the whole world. My question goes in the direction of the impact of certain things on the euro. Is the euro a strong currency or a weak currency? How would you assess the impact of the European stabilisation mechanism for the euro - whether it has a positive or a negative impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U53	In particular, this will still have an impact on individual Member States and their economies. Assistance from the stabilisation mechanism is essential for those who have no major reforms and no financial discipline. Just as it was imperative for us to have reserves to draw up our own budget. Yes, the credibility of the euro also depends on how individual countries are doing. I did not comment on one of Inara Luigas's statements. He is deeply disturbed by the fact that it is as if we have abandoned a large decision-making power when we join the euro in controlling prices. I would still ask you, as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to clarify your arguments. What kind of opportunity did you foresee? What were the plans to control prices outside the euro zone, and were you talking about devaluation? This would have been followed by much faster price increases than in the case of non-devaling. That was what we gave up in 1992, making our mechanism more difficult, but we finally said it when we joined the euro zone. It is not necessary to line up all kinds of claims and put them in the Chamber of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U54	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I have this question. Before the changeover, we had not exactly a cheap information campaign, which was slogan 'no increase in the price of the euro'. If you look back today and, for a moment, imagine that we are just about to join the euro, would you be willing to launch a campaign with a pure heart at the same price?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U56	What campaign are you talking about? It was no one's election campaign, nor was it a national compulsory campaign. This was one of the slogans of the same voluntary agreement, 'The euro does not raise'. Each slogan requires a comment and everyone who joined this agreement knew it, and the introduction of this agreement to the public contained a message that we will not secretly raise prices during the changeover through rounding. And with this objective, there was also a national obligation to display prices in parallel. It was six months before the euro and it is six months after the euro. This has been the case with national regulation. But joining this agreement was voluntary in itself, and it was not a deal signed by the Minister of Finance. However, I would remind you that, when you think back on this process, the changeover to the euro was actually exceptionally successful. We had no technical problems at the turn of the year, and for this we have received very positive assessments. During the campaign, we also achieved quite good support for the changeover. In the meantime, the support for the euro was less than 50%, but eventually 60% did. And right now, this figure is even better. People get used to it. And I think there was one reason for the campaign's success. Different campaigns, different techniques contributed to the acceptance of the euro by people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U57	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Peter Võsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, With regard to the changeover to the euro, I have one simple question: what is the debt of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U59	What is the debt of the Estonian state? Well, that's a lot to talk about. At the turn of the year, it was 6.6% of GDP. Let's put in numbers, that's how manyteen billion kroons? It is in the order of less than EUR 1 billion and consists of debts of central government, municipalities, foundations and all such institutions. He's so small, he can't even be seen. When I'm in contact with my colleagues, I realize we're not even in the picture. On the scale of how national debts are presented, Estonia somehow disappears. Recently, I saw a picture of where Estonia had been left out, because our debt does not exist. Of course, in the case of debts, you still have to look at net debt. Our reserves are considerably higher than the loans. What exactly to define as a reserve is a question of methodology. That is why I am not calling this figure, but the reserves are higher and the net debt should arise if we continue in the same way, in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U60	Thank you, Minister of Finance. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U61	I would now like to ask a question from my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Ansip! On 27 January 2011, the Ministry of the Environment issued another excavation permit for the chemical industry of Kiviõli for mining in a new career. As we know, the legality of this authorisation has been challenged in court, and the chemical industry of Kiviõli has stated that if the court annuls the excavation permit granted by the government, they will be forced to close the plant. In this case, 25% of the working age population would be unemployed in Kiviõli and a hole of about 15% would be created in the city budget. Of course, it is not appropriate for the government and the Riigikogu to take a stand in litigation, which is why my question is as follows. What is the government's plan of action, both in terms of reducing unemployment and in terms of urban budgets, if the court withdraws this mining permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U63	The Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, of course, will not go into speculation and you will not find any other Prime Minister in Europe who will speculate on what happens when the event A takes place, or what happens when the event B.Yes, you rightly stated that the Government of the Republic has issued a complaint permit. The Government of the Republic, as well as the Riigikogu, have received numerous accusations that the government has issued this mining permit. However, we are convinced that there was a legal basis for issuing an excavation permit. Unfortunately, the issue of an excavation permit has been challenged in a court of law and, of course, as Prime Minister, I do not intend to put any pressure on the court. I don't quite understand the owners and leaders of the chemical industry in Kiviõli. They have now expressed their wish to pool all staff and close the factory from 1 May this year. At the same time, I know that on the basis of the contract with Eesti Energia, they are entitled to receive this piece of industrial oil shale until 31 May. Why the hell would a factory be shut down on May 1, when there's enough resources to work for another month? Why should all these workers be laid off when all other options are, in my understanding, not exhausted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U64	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U65	I didn't ask you to speculate. I asked you to tell me if the government had a plan of action. And if so, what is it if the court cancels the appeal? Since this is a relatively serious situation and a potential social disaster in Kiviõli, the government will certainly have a "B" plan if the court does not support the government's A-plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U66	The Unemployment Insurance Fund has a plan in place for this to happen if the chemical industry of Kiviõli really should shut down its production and lay off all its employees. When the unemployment fund received a letter of formal notice, it naturally started to draw up a crisis plan. The unemployment fund has a plan. It includes consultation of employees, retraining and also permanent employment of employees of the unemployment fund for a period of time in the Kiviõli Chemical Industry. So the unemployment fund is preparing. However, I very much hope that these preparations will be in vain.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U67	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U68	Here's what I want to ask you. The chemical industry of Kiviõli has said that the mines of Eesti Energia do not allow them to obtain enough and necessary oil shale. The stone oil chemical industry claims that only 15000 tonnes of oil shale can be delivered to them, while the need is 45000 tonnes. With your previous answer, do you question the argument of the chemical industry of Kiviõli and, if not, is there any way that the government can solve this problem for the chemical industry of Kiviõli?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U69	First, of course, the chemical industry of Kiviõli should enter into proper negotiations with Eesti Energia. As I have already pointed out, the chemical industry of Kiviõli has the right to receive the full extent of the contract with Eesti Energia, as they have a need for production, in pieces of oil shale until 31 May. However, a notification has been sent to the unemployment fund that the plant is to be closed down as early as 1 May. Why this contractual resource, which could be used within a month, is deeply incomprehensible to me. If you speculate, it seems that this is an inappropriate pressure on the court or a public opinion. But I don't think that's a legitimate step. If Kiviõli Chemical Industry is negotiating with Eesti Energia, then a solution can be found. I do not believe that Eesti Energia will not be able to mine more oil shale. As we know from history, 30 million tons of oil shale have been extracted in Estonia in some years. Right now we're at half the amount we're at. There are no fundamental contraindications. It is probably a question of details, including the important detail of the price.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U70	Now, please, the questions registered on the spot! First of all, Mr Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U71	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Does the new government still have a plan to regulate North-East Estonia's employment with new mining volumes and new mining permits, or has there been any new ideas in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U72	The government's ideas are also formulated in the excavation permit issued. The government believes that the necessary oil shale resource should be provided to the chemical industry of Kiviõli, and we have issued an excavation permit. We have no plan to close the mines. I just don't know what the goals are just as green-green as we intend to develop oil shale processing further, and this further development of oil shale industry and oil shale processing is also reflected in the establishment of a new oil shale processing plant in Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U73	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U74	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Prime Minister! This problem has been the cause of many years of controversy over the legality of mining permits. At the same time, in 2009 the government has launched the expropriation process of oil shale sites in Northern Kivõli II. My question is: what is the current government's position on expropriation of these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U75	We have not discussed this issue of expropriation in the government any further, but if the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications considers it necessary to discuss it at the meeting of the Cabinet, we will probably discuss it very thoroughly. However, I can say my personal position: I do not consider this expropriation or the imposition of a compulsory occupation in this time frame to be a solution of any kind. I believe that this way oil shale resource to put stone oil into use in the chemical industry has so many weaknesses that the Estonian courts will continue to work for at least five years. Right now we have a single mining permit contested, but the points of appeal are there, I'm not saying a zillion, but five or fifteen will definitely find them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U76	Now, the last issue registered on the spot. Colleagues Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U77	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Prime Minister! Don't you think that if a procedure that regulates the issue of mining permits doesn't actually work or doesn't work badly, then these rules should be reviewed by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U78	I wouldn't blame you for anything. It is none of my business to blame the private operator that he did not notice how his company started buying up lands where the other owner wanted to mine oil shale. But all this has happened. I suggest that the fighting parties agree and that more than 600 employees remain in employment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U79	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U80	Ladies and gentlemen, we have ten minutes if anyone else wants to ask the ministers or the Prime Minister a question. I will start with my colleague, Eiki Nestor. Please also state the name of the minister to whom you are addressing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U81	Thank you, manager. I have an urgent question for Minister Jürgen Ligi. Knowing the minister, I believe he got his soul full this morning when he read the Estonian Päevaleht. 36000 pensioners are ahead of the case, behind you they have paid income tax to the state, which they could now recover. The Tax Act tells us that when the person who collects the relevant applications, or the Social Insurance Board, wakes up and collects these applications, people will only be able to get back more income tax paid in three years. What do you think, Minister, if we agreed to extend that deadline so that these people wouldn't have problems getting the money back too much?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U82	You still don't know me enough! I couldn't get my soul full this morning, and I couldn't read the Daily Paper either. However, I am generally familiar with the subject, and I think it is a superficial approach, looking for a sensation in a place where it does not really exist. I would argue that this is such a more general statement that we do have a country of free citizens, where it is not always possible to accuse the country of failing to exercise its rights and freedoms, even though it would be financially advantageous for it. As regards the order of magnitude of non-use of this right, this 36000 is certainly not the correct number. First of all, a large number of pensioners are working, and the number of pensioners who fully recover their income tax is increasing. Now, if I say it by heart, three or four times as much. And with the utmost probability, the overwhelming majority of these 36000 people are certainly not all but human within this number. There is no doubt that there are people who have missed this right, but the chances that they would miss it have been left to a minimum by the state. Firstly, there are campaigns to make use of this right. Secondly, on the one-off application form for a pension, once in a lifetime, a person must write it separately: whether or not he or she wants income tax deducted from him or her. It will undoubtedly be more useful for working pensioners to say 'not' and have it written off on their salary. So our system is perhaps the most convenient in the world for tax calculation and tax recovery, taking into account the possibilities of the Internet as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U83	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U84	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister. As we move around Estonia, we see that there are problems with public procurement here and there. Our President recently expressed his opinion that the Riigikogu should start to deal seriously with the law on public procurement. Schools have problems, municipalities have problems, the state has problems. Has the government been discussed, or do you think, should the Public Procurement Act really be taken up again and, if so, what should be changed there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U85	I do not think that we should change the law on public procurement every year. We have had major social resonance problems in this area in connection with public procurement organised by the Road Administration. If the law were constantly amended, legal clarity would come with a long-term shift. And if there is no legal certainty, crystallisation, the practice of applying the law cannot develop. We have the case with public procurement that only 1% of procurement has been challenged, but unfortunately, this 1% of contested procurement is shaping the public procurement law and the situation in the field of public procurement in the first place such that there is one major disorder and this law has been extremely unsuccessful. I say the opposite: the law has succeeded well and it should be avoided by light-handedly changing it. Legal practice should be allowed to develop and, possibly, procurements can also be organised more quickly than is currently unfortunately the case for some procurements. An example is the same section of the Kose-Aruvalla road that has been debated in court for two years. But I'd like to say a few words to Eiki Nestor on the subject of retirement in addition to what Jürgen said. According to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, this year 106997 old-age pensioners who have also declared their pension there have submitted their tax-free minimum and asked to deduct it. Last year, this figure was slightly smaller: 104513. This 36000, taken separately from 107000, is, in my opinion, very wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U86	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U87	Thank you, good manager. My question is for the Minister of Regional Affairs. I remember that some time ago the Social Democratic Party presented you with an inquiry into IT procurement in your area of administration. They were dissatisfied enough because at that time you had declared three procurements unsuccessful. Similarly, the information system of local government councils, or Volis, has raised many questions in many municipalities. Can you assure me that you will not continue this tradition of failure? Have you achieved more positive results with your procurement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U88	You are talking about the procurement that we have organised to support local authorities to offer them free-source solutions so that they can have a solution that is centrally developed at low cost, and anything that complements it will be available to all cities and municipalities. As I said today, the interest in the local government website is very high and is constantly growing. Already 60 municipalities have expressed their wish to join it. The Council's information system has been implemented in Jõgeva County, where all procurements have been carried out. I believe it will be introduced in other counties as well. As regards the most problematic document management system, we are looking for additional free-range solutions here. I would like to stress that we want a solution that is precisely the one where the code would not be protected, which everyone could freely use. The solutions must be available to the local authorities as cheaply as possible and as good as possible. So the answer to the question is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U89	Now for the last question. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U90	Thank you. I apologize to the Minister of Finance! I didn't know he was happy to read the paper. My bad!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U91	The question is who?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U92	To the Minister of Finance! After all, the situation is easy: a person is working, he has a job application written. If he stays home one day, the Social Insurance Board has not been informed immediately. Nobody reminds a person, the application is not written and the overall minimum income tax is not taken into account. Would it perhaps extend the time for which people have the right to recover any more paid income tax from the state? That's my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U93	And my answer was I haven't read the paper. I've never read it with pleasure. But the problem is completely clear to me. It is not possible, in itself, to simplify the system or to say that the state must hold its hand retroactively for some long years to come, and I do not agree with that either. Is this three years right, it's not really a question at all. I can, of course, think about it, and suddenly I have a different opinion, but I believe that citizens still have some kind of responsibility to themselves. As I know, this risk is higher, especially for the youngest pensioners. But in itself, if I am able to write a pension application, then I am able to fill in the box that guarantees exemption. And it's more useful if you're a potentially or actually working pensioner, to take it from the job, as I said. The IRS isn't gonna know what kind of person is gonna quit. The current regime is a simplistic procedure from a human point of view. He is not under constant and intense national supervision, whether he is still working on just as he himself declares it. And if he makes a wrong declaration, he could, of course, get a tax claim. But basically, I say again, the system is exceptionally user-friendly and also affordable for older people, as life has shown. People ask for money back and declare it every year. Is that three years right? In the end, it is also troublesome for the country if it has some unknown obligations somewhere forever. A little respect must also be shown for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, Our Question Time is over. Many thanks to the members of the Riigikogu for asking questions and thank you, members of the government, for answering! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U95	Dear Riigikogu! We will start the second working week session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. There's no call. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed the leading committees to them: first, the draft law amending the Securities Market Act and other laws in connection with the Law of the Government of the Republic on the day before yesterday; second, the draft law amending the Commercial Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic on the day before yesterday; thirdly, the draft law amending the State Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party yesterday; the commission is the Finance Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has been forwarded by the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the European Commission's Green Paper "Less bureaucracy for citizens: Promoting the free circulation of public documents and recognition of the force of civil status legislation" presented on 24 March 2004 and appointed the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 April 2010 at 4 p.m. The members of the Riigikogu formed a group of Estonian-Azerbaijan, Estonian-Australian and New Zealand parliaments and Estonian-Irish parliamentary groups and a group of sports and movement enthusiasts of the Riigikogu, a group of heritage conservation associations, Järva and Viljandi countries, a Defence League support group, a space research support group, an ambassador group in South-East Estonia and a Mulgimaa support group. Good Riigikogu! Today, immediately after the end of the session, the opening meetings of the Vana-Võrumaa Envoy Group and the Pärnumaa Envoy Group will take place in this hall. Requesting presence check! 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U96	There is one item on today's agenda: adoption of the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia (47 SE) as a law. I will now introduce the amendment of the Constitution by the two successive formations of the Riigikogu in accordance with § 126 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Negotiations are taking place first, only the representatives of the political groups can speak. The final vote will then take place. At least when the laws adopted by a majority of the Riigikogu are adopted, a verification of presence shall be carried out before the final vote. A three-fifths majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft law amending the Constitution. Let's start the procedure for this bill. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, as representative of the Group of the Centre Party, Mr Kadri Simson. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Four years ago, the intention was to initiate an urgent amendment of the Constitution on this very issue in order to delete references from the Constitution to the Commander of the Defence Forces and to the Commander-in-Chief. Due to the opposition of the Centre Party, the amendment of the Constitution did not go through as a matter of urgency. I will try to explain to you why we were then and why we are opposed to such a change of constitution today. Four years ago, the wish to amend the Constitution was accompanied by the fear that, after the amendment of the Constitution, the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces would be intended to include the submission of the Commander of the Defence Forces to the Minister of Defence and to withdraw the Defence Forces from their status as a militaryly organized authority of the executive state into a government or administered state institution. Today we know that this is also a state-of-the-art defence force under the law of the order of the Defence Forces, which is now a military-organized government facility within the realm of the Ministry of Defence, and the Commander of the Defence Forces is subordinate to the Minister of Defence. One might ask, " Why do you want to resist more when the drum is gone?'Let the sticks go. However, the Centre Party is convinced that Estonian national defence will not benefit if the control by the Riigikogu is abolished and replaced by the influence of one of the parties' ministers. Military power is the strongest kind of power, and the strongest kind of power requires greater control from different parties. Instead, the change that we have on the table today will lose Parliament's control. The deletion or amendment of the five paragraphs in the Constitution not only removes all references to the Commander of the Defence Forces, but also gives Parliament's role in the appointment and dismissal of the Commander of the Defence Forces. In addition, according to the current Constitution, the leader of the Defence Forces is also a member of the circle of people who are in line with the current question. Once the Constitution is amended on this matter, the Commander of the Defence Forces will no longer belong to these people. The Riigikogu must establish itself in the creation of civil control mechanisms in such a way as to prevent politicisation of the management of the defence forces and subjugation to the government in a way that essentially precludes the supervision of the participation of the parliament and the organisation of high-quality national defence. Estonia's defence capabilities depend on the Defence Forces; this cannot be reduced to the level of the ordinary profession. The necessity of amending the Constitution is justified by civil control, but as a result, parliamentary control of the Defence Forces is weakened, and the Riigikogu itself now gives power to the government. It is obvious that the approval of officials in the government requires much less consensus than in the Riigikogu. We know that we have had the appointment of officials from a political point of view, and examples can also be seen from the last time that the former party leader, who has been left behind in the field of energy without a competition, has recently been placed in a weighty position in day politics. The withdrawal of the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces from the President and the Riigikogu and the granting of one party to a minister does not increase the civil control, but reduces it. Another reason for the initiative to amend the Constitution was that the relationship between the highest military command and the highest political leadership has so far been unclear. At the same time, a law on the organisation of the Defence Forces has been adopted, Article 23 of which provides unambiguously that the Defence Forces are to be led during peace by the Commander of the Defence Forces, who is subordinate to the Minister of Defence. The Minister of Defence does not have the power of command over the Commander of the Defence Forces solely within the meaning of § 27 of the Act. The removal of the Commander of the Defence Forces from the Constitution is no longer necessary and, from the point of view of governance, it does not make the situation any clearer, as the first two paragraphs of § 127 of the Constitution remain, which say that the President of the Republic is the supreme leader of national defence and that the National Defence Council is the advisory body with the President of the Republic, whose composition and duties are laid down by law. Thus, based on Estonia's recent history, we can say that confusion in the management of the Defence Forces has primarily been caused by the situation in which the Minister of Defence thought he was the highest leader of national defence. But if such an attitude also exists for future defence ministers, it still goes against the remaining section of the Constitution. According to the Constitution, the Riigikogu should only appoint state officials whose independence requires special protection due to their function. And now it is the view that these officials should be the Chancellor of Justice, the Auditor General and the judges of state, but not the Commander of the Defence Forces. However, military forces in a democratic country are one of the most important forces in need of control and balance, over which the supervision of the representative population must be maintained. Maintaining the role of the Riigikogu in the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces was also the content of one of the amendments proposed by the members of the Estonian Central Party. Unfortunately, it did not find the support of the committee in the previous Riigikogu. We believe that if the Constitution is to be amended in the wording proposed by the President, the Riigikogu must have more effective and operational mechanisms to control the government in matters relating to the organisation of national defence. We all know that if today the amendment of the Constitution should receive 61 votes of support, the government will come up with 19 amendments to the law resulting from the amendment of the Constitution, and probably discussions on the role of the Riigikogu will continue. But if the position of Commander of the Defence Forces is excluded from the Constitution and his appointment as a few right, if you go past the Riigikogu in matters of war and peace without proposing a viable alternative, democratic control of the state will weaken rather than strengthen, as was the original idea. That is why we are voting against today's proposal, because we believe that civil control of the Defence Forces must continue to be broad-based. Let the President, as well as the Riigikogu, and thus the people, play their role as the bearer of the highest state power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U98	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Group of the Rait Maruste Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U99	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have before us the completion of another amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. This time the amendment of the Constitution was initiated by the President of the Republic, using his constitutional powers. The initiation was preceded by in-depth studies, negotiations and coordination. Previous Riigikogu decided to deal with the initiative in accordance with § 162 (2) and § 165 of the Constitution, i.e. by two successive formations of the Riigikogu. The previous Riigikogu has done its work and approved the draft by a majority of its members. The text of this draft is before you today. Under the constitutional procedure, this is essentially a third reading of the draft. It is up to us to approve or reject the previous work and decision by a three-fifths majority. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I call on you to support the draft. The reasons why amendments to the Constitution are necessary are set out in detail in the explanatory memorandum to the draft. Reasons have been negotiated at professional and political level and agreed at earlier stages of the procedure. These materials have been available to you, so there is no need to repeat them here. In a very brief and concise way, the changes mean bringing the operational management of national defence to the competence and responsibility of the executive. Ladies and gentlemen, Our current constitution is a compilation of the constitutional elements of the first period of independence, its own creation and the transfer from international sources. Our current constitutional regime of national defence bears the seal of the presidential regime of the first period of independence. Today, however, the Republic of Estonia is clearly a parliamentary republic with the resulting political and constitutional logic and principles. One part of these principles is the clear separation of powers, the civil control of the military sector and the clarity of the lines of jurisdiction and command. In modern Western constitutional models, the army is part of the executive. The military are organising and bearing political responsibility for this by the government and the Minister of Defence. This is the way things are essentially organised in NATO Member States, and so should we. Unfortunately, the constitutional regulation of our national defence has been somewhat inconsistent and potentially misunderstandings and even conflict-making. I would remind you that in the 1990s, ambiguity in the chain of command was the source of a number of serious tensions and problems relating to national defence. Fortunately, we have been able to avoid worse, and in time things have improved. However, honourable members of the Riigikogu, it must also be our common interest and care to rule out the emergence of misunderstandings of state law and to create as clear a division of competences and subordinates as possible in order to ensure uniform and effective organisation and responsibility of matters in national defence. The approval and entry into force of the draft act will be followed by appropriate draft national defence laws detailing and updating the organisation of national defence in the light of the amendments to the constitution before us. This will provide a better legal basis for leading the Defence Forces in our circumstances today. We will all have the opportunity to continue to participate in the organisation of national defence through the processing of these drafts and thus to carry out parliamentary scrutiny. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I believe that, through the adoption of the draft, we are taking an important step in the constitutional regulation of the organisation of national defence and we are creating an appropriate assumption for other legal regulation resulting from it. I would like to thank all those who have prepared this draft and I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U100	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. I would like to ask my colleague, Urmas Reinsalu, as a representative of the Group of the Alliance of Isamaa and Res Publica. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U101	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The IRL Group supports the adoption of this amendment to the Constitution in the final vote. We support the approach of amending the Constitution through novels, i.e. individual improvements to legal relationships. It has been a culture of our constitution, and the number of changes reflects the constancy of the constitution, not weakness. Secondly, the content of the amendment to the Constitution. President Lennart Meri said 14 years ago on the fifth anniversary of the Estonian Constitution: 'This is a serious contradiction that is encoded in the Constitution and is not due to a lack of political culture. I am referring to the conflict between the defence ministers and the commanders of the Defence Forces. I can assure you with full responsibility: a soldier may be well trained, he may be as modernly armed, and yet, if the chain of command is vague, interpretable in many ways and stretches like a bull's drool, even the best army will collapse like a house of cards. ' End of Lennart Meri quote. When we discussed this draft in this Chamber in 2007 and 2008, there was a different situation in Estonian national defence law than today. The organisation of national defence management had vaguely set out the relationship of subordination between the Commander of the Defence Forces and the location of the Defence Forces in the structure of the state institutions, as well as the lack of regulation of the right of command and the principles of use of force by the Defence Forces. To sum up, there was a lack of embodiment of the amendment to the Constitution by implementing laws. This aspect, which was mentioned earlier, was highlighted in the discussions by almost all the political parties represented in the Riigikogu and was one of the main obstacles to achieving a general political consensus. By voting on the amendment of the Constitution today, we are in a much better position because the previous Riigikogu passed the Act on the organisation of the Defence Forces. This law provides unambiguously for the Defence Forces as a single state authority within the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction, for the submission of the Commander of the Defence Forces to the Minister of Defence, as well as for the right of command and use of force. The majority of the issues raised in the discussions held in 2007 and 2008 have therefore been resolved. The adoption of the amendment to the Constitution makes it possible to take the final steps to establish clearly and unambiguously the leading role of the Government of the Republic and the Minister of Defence in the management and responsibility of the Estonian state's defence. The entry into force of the amendment to the Constitution allows for a procedure for the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Commander of the Defence Forces at the level of the Act. Following the entry into force of the Act on the organisation of the Defence Forces and a clear definition of the relationship of jurisdiction between the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Minister of Defence, it is also appropriate to align the procedure for the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Commander of the Defence Forces with the constitutional logic. The Defence Forces are part of the executive power and the Commander of the Defence Forces is subordinate to the Minister of Defence and so the executive power should be appointed to the leadership of the Defence Forces. Another main concern in the discussions of the previous Riigikogu was the fear that as a result of the amendment to the Constitution, the institution of the Commander of the Defence Forces would disappear and the Defence Forces would be politicised. I do not know of any political party represented in the Riigikogu who would like to abolish the institution of the Commander of the Defence Forces. This is not the subject of today's debate, and IRL is unequivocally opposed to this debate. This amendment to the Constitution reduces the risk of politicisation of the Defence Forces. If the Commander of the Defence Forces is appointed by the Riigikogu and he is accountable to the Riigikogu, he will also take part in the political debate that politicians must hold in our Chamber. The Minister bears political responsibility, he participates in the political debate and reports to the Riigikogu. The Commander of the Defence Forces shall always have the opportunity and duty to contribute to the debate as a military expert. If you look at the challenges facing Estonia's national security more broadly, the current coalition has set clear goals that will ensure that our national defence is implemented quickly and that its management is clear. Firstly, the development of national defence must be guided by its broad approach in line with the established national defence strategy. It is important to ensure that all public authorities prepare to carry out their national defence tasks in the event of possible threats and that military defences develop with the rest of society. Secondly, it is necessary to initiate the modernisation of peace and wartime national defence laws. This is the first step resulting from the amendment to the Constitution, after which we will begin to deal with them here in Parliament. It is important to make the national defence management systems and responsibilities of peace and wartime as similar as possible in order to ensure operational security. Thirdly, the organisation of national defence management must be based on defence forces as part of the executive power and it is necessary to ensure coordination, clarity of management and transparent civil control of the management of defence activities. Fourthly, there is a need to provide a clear basis for synergies between military and rescue capabilities and to continue to pool public aircraft, ships and the necessary service resources for their handling. All these activities are conceivable when Parliament and the government have a clear will to ensure sustainable funding of Estonian national defence, based on the principle that our aim is to achieve 2% of the gross domestic product by 2012 and to ensure stability of this level. However, the assumption is that there is unambiguous clarity in the management of national defence. To conclude, I quote Lennart Meri once again: 'A well-functioning national security system is in itself a threat scarer, a deterrent, a security guarantee: it points out that it also operates effectively in times of crisis and, as such, is capable of preventing the crisis. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U102	Thank you very much, Mr Reinsalu. I would like to ask Mrs Sven Mikser for the floor as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The reason why the Constitution and its chapter on national defence need to be amended has already been thoroughly discussed by previous speakers. This conflict of legal logic, which was between the components of the Second World War and the logic of the Constitution and the parliamentary organisation adopted in the re-independence Republic of Estonia, was evident. There were also a number of sounding concepts, such as the President as the supreme leader of national defence, but also the question of whether the Commander of the Defence Forces is or is not a constitutional institution like the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General, not adequately furnished. In order to take down the fears associated with the current proposal to amend the Constitution, we must first say what this amendment to the Constitution is not. First of all, it is certainly not a change that would be subjected to the operational command of the Defence Forces or would force politicians to issue battle orders to the Defence Forces. Secondly, he is certainly not the kind of change that would politicise the leadership of the Defence Forces. However, this change will undoubtedly strengthen civil control over the defence forces and create greater legal clarity and legal logic. The previous speaker from the Centre Party also raised the question whether the Commander of the Defence Forces, as he has so far mentioned in the Constitution, is a constitutional institution whose autonomy, whose independence and independence need the same protection as other constitutional institutions. It must certainly be pointed out that the Commander of the Defence Forces is not and cannot be a constitutional institution, just as the Auditor General and the Chancellor of Justice are. After all, no one can imagine civil control under the conditions of parliamentary democracy, a defence force which, in planning its resources and activities, is as independent from the executive power as are the authorities of the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General. The appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu ensures a stronger political consensus. I dare doubt that from the point of view of legal logic and from the point of view of practice. I think that many people who have been in this Chamber for more than eight years are reminded of a case where the Riigikogu voted to dismiss the Commander of the Defence Forces. This vote ended 'positively' thanks to one of the votes cast, and this one majority came from a member of the Riigikogu who voted against the decision of his group, explaining it, among other things, with momentary confusion or colour blindness. Certainly, such voting results do not refer to the appointment or release of the Commander of the Defence Forces from stability, continuity or great political consensus. It would be wise to rule them out in the future. Now, to dispel another fear. I can say that the strongest guarantee against politicisation of the command of the Defence Forces is, in fact, the fact that there will and will never be any party general among the highest officers in Estonia. I think this guarantee should be enough for us. What is unfortunate is that today we do not have a single and clear vision of how exactly and who should in future appoint the Commander of the Defence Forces, but also, for example, the Chief of the General Staff of the Defence Forces and the Chief of the Defence League. Surely it would be easier for us to press the green button if we knew that we all could, or at least an important part of us would understand in the same way what level and by whom these high-ranking officers will be appointed. On behalf of the Socialists, we certainly want to see this as a collective responsibility and a collegial decision of the executive, i.e. a decision taken at the level of the Government of the Republic, not at the level of the Minister. And at least in the case of the Chief of the Defence League, it is important that this level is also parite with the appointment of the Commander of the Defence Forces, both in terms of proposal and decision-making. Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democratic Party, through its parliamentary group, is supporting the amendment of the Constitution in today's final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-13_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Mikser. As all the representatives of the political groups have been able to perform, I will conclude the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, before the final vote, let us do the presence check. 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Please vote! 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and no abstentions. The draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia has been adopted as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 2.29 p.m.
