ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the fifth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, you can now hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U2	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Culture initiates the following draft decisions of the Riigikogu: a draft on the appointment of the members of the Board of the National Library of Estonia, a draft on the appointment of the members of the National Opera Board and a draft on the appointment of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U3	Thank you. Please, Mr Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the decision of the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu of 9 May 2011, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will submit a draft of the Riigikogu's decision on the establishment of a Council for the Award of Grants from Gambling Tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U5	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to hand over the draft law amending the Youth Work Act and the Social Tax Act. The content and the meaning of the matter are simple. Last week, registration took place for student-friendly jobs. Within about half an hour, all 700 seats were filled, and thousands of applications were left over. Our aim is to get young people who want to learn how to work and thus get economic and social education to be exempt from social tax. On the other hand, it would also bring more companies here. As a member of the Student Council, I have serious concerns that the circle of companies offering work is the same year after year. This change would motivate entrepreneurs to join job providers and would, of course, give students the opportunity to gain work experience and work education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U7	Thank you. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 16 members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. The inquiry concerns internal security. The year 2011 has begun in quite black tones. In the first three months of the year, for example, the number of road deaths has increased by 73% compared to the previous year. Compared to 2009, the number of victims of fire continued to increase by almost 10%, or 9.5%, in 2010. There have also been some very critical messages from Europol about Estonian criminals. For example, in Finland almost a quarter of criminals from abroad come from Estonia. Since our Prime Minister and Minister of Finance have expressed a firm opinion here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu that there will be no budget growth in the area of internal security in the coming years, we have questions about all this for the Minister of the Interior. Firstly, what is his understanding of recent developments in the area of internal security? Since there is no increase in funding, we have another important question: what are the compensatory mechanisms to alleviate the situation and stop the increase in accident deaths? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted five draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it immediately to the addressee. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them: the Committee on the Environment. a Proposal for a Decision of the Riigikogu " Appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre," submitted on 4 May, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment; in the Committee on the Environment. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Centre for Environmental Investments and appointment of new members' submitted on 4 May, the commission of which is the Committee on the Environment; in the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. a draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 4 May, whose commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs; in the Estonian Central Party faction. a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated on 5 May, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 5 May, Estonia submitted its views on the draft regulation of the Council of the European Union governing jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes, and on the draft regulation governing the same matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships, on the draft regulation for the European Union Commission and has appointed the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and regulations of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 19 May 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 5 May Estonia's views on the draft regulation of the Council of Europe on the electronic publication of the Official Journal of the European Union to the Commission for European Union Affairs and has appointed the Constitutional Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 19 May 2010 at 4 p.m. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. Last week, a support group for natural shrines and a support group for Narva were established. Ladies and gentlemen, Please, let's do the presence check! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13. Ladies and gentlemen, This week's agenda will be on your desks. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 86 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-09_U10	No response is foreseen on today's agenda. To perform in a free microphone, please register after my hammer kick! There's no call. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.09 p.m.
