ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to hand over drafts or inquiries? No drafts or requests for information are recommended. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday, 19 October, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check! 74 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 27. We will begin the processing of today's agenda items.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U2	The first item is an overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First, the Auditor General makes a report of up to 30 minutes, then the members of the Riigikogu can ask the Auditor General one oral question. Following questions, negotiations will be opened in which only the representatives of the political groups can speak. I'm asking for a presentation of Auditor General Mihkel Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Do you know the difference between an optimist and a pessimist? They both agree that two plus two is four, but the pessimist thinks it's awfully little. Recently, economic analyst Hardo Pajula claimed that the average wage in Estonia has increased more than 100 times in 20 years. Is that a little or a lot? Depends on where you look. Mathematically, of course, this is a huge increase. If you made two euros earlier and now you make four euros, optimistic cheers will say that the salary has doubled or that the increase has been one hundred percent. Sounds proud to just stick to mathematics and put the real life aside. Unfortunately, this one hundred-fold increase has not helped us to the Nordic level either, but the survival of Estonia today is certainly better than it was 20 years ago. And despite the deep economic crisis that has hit us, it would be wrong to say that we have failed. It is my sincere wish that in 20 years' time, the Auditor General of State will be able to say the same before the Riigikogu. It is not my business to be neither an optimist nor a pessimist; it is my business to be a realist and as a realist I know that success has never come and will not come by itself. We will be successful if our children can enjoy a carefree childhood if we have young people who are eager to learn, if we have smart and active workers and employers and if our people can age with dignity. In a world suffering from a debt crisis, it is dangerously easy to consider something else to succeed, such as a budget balance and a small public debt, and it seems to me that this has happened in Estonia. I am not in favour of living too much, either, but in addition to keeping the budget balanced, we must not forget the person, or the real life. We need to see what we can offer citizens in terms of balance and whether we support long-term development with budgetary expenditure. And here I see a number of risks that could threaten our sustainable development. The Estonian is pious and does not rebel on the streets, but that does not mean that he does not expect to improve his life, because, despite the speed of development, the purchasing power of the Estonian is still less than two thirds of the European Union average. Despite belonging to clubs in rich countries, we have to ask ourselves how rich we really are. In 5, 10 and 20 years, can the state provide security, support for the elderly and those in need, education and health care? When will life begin to improve, when will the Estonian doctor and teacher receive the same salary as Finnish colleagues? Those are complicated questions. To ensure a beautiful future, we must start with the present. It is not enough to know that life in Estonia has probably improved. Good listeners! My question to you is: do you know what challenges Estonia is facing and how the government has solved them? It makes sense that you address the state's activity report for a reply. It is also a report on the activity included in the summary report for the financial year. This is government information for you and all people in Estonia about the problems the country dealt with last year and how effectively they were resolved. This report also happens to be on the table, because the next item will be the debate. The National Audit Office reviewed in depth the parts of the five major ministries in this report. These are the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Interior. And what did you find out? Estonia has two concerns in the area of government of the five ministries. Firstly, the State Chancellery did not approve a euro money programme. Second, the number of children without parental care has increased. Not a word about unemployment, poverty, health or the competitiveness of the economy! What results did the country achieve with the help of all of our money to reduce poverty and unemployment, to reduce the number of treatments or to support growth in the competitiveness of the economy? You won't find these answers in this report. I must disappoint you that our lives are not so beautiful after all. The point is that the Ministry of Finance has only chosen a positive one in this activity report. The 68 objectives and important activities that were not achieved last year in these five areas of government did not just get ahead of you. It's not my figure, the ministries have written it themselves. In addition, I am tired of repeating what I have emphasised in front of you year after year: the activity report must be linked to the money, or it must be clearly shown that the Riigikogu allocated so much money for this or that, and thus the government achieved or did not achieve this or its purpose. And it should also be read out that if it didn't, then why didn't. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! A beautiful future requires constant assurance that we are on the right track. From personal experience, some automatically think that the party and government are always right and that there is no need to doubt it. In reality, securing the future means looking straight at problems and taking courage. I do not know whether and how you will use this report on government activities in your work, and I do not know how you will soon be giving the government a new right to use money. I asked the previous and previous Riigikogu and I also ask you: please ask the government to assess the impact of their actions and to give it an honest account! Ask them about health, the labour market, the economy and people's ability to cope. Ask them what they have done to resolve their concerns and what results they have actually achieved. But, well, next year's draft state budget has come to your attention, and you have to make some kind of decision about it. Let's take a look inside. The government is promoting the 2012 budget as a budget for economic stability and employment. There are beautiful statistics and I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of these figures. But when analysing the national budgets of recent years, it worries me that the costs confirmed by the law have increased very quickly. These are costs that are not easy to pass on. These are mainly social and health insurance costs, which have increased faster than public revenues. While the revenue of the state budget has increased by 29% over the last five years, fixed expenditure has increased more than twice as fast, i.e. by 62%. This year, legal expenditure accounts for about 75% of all expenditure. There is no need for a mathematician to understand: such rising costs cannot be financed indefinitely. I am far from the opinion that pensions are too high in Estonia or the quality of treatment is too good and help is available. There is no doubt that the increase in social costs is one of the reasons why we can say that life in Estonia has improved, but my concern is where the state will take money to pay fixed costs in the future. Social tax is not enough to cover social costs for a long time. This year, the state will have to raise EUR 279 million to pay pensions, nearly half a billion in 2015, which is nearly EEK 8 billion. I don't want the esteemed Eiki Nestor to accuse me of scaring retired people again. There is no doubt that pensions will continue to be paid. But let's look at the other side of the coin. How much money will be left besides legitimate costs to support the country's overall and economic development in the long term? Where do we get the money to cover the growing costs that the law has confirmed? Good listener! I read the guidance from the Ministry of Finance to ministries on how to prepare the state budget for the years 2012 to 2015. It says literally: 'The only budgetary cover for new activities is saving and setting priorities. ' To cope with legitimate costs, the state's maintenance costs and investments are frozen from the state's own revenues. What does this guideline mean for other areas? What does this mean for the country's long-term development, its administrative capacity? For example, I address the Ministry of Education and Research's annual activity report for the previous year. I quote: 'Currently, due to limited resources and reduced composition, a downward correction of strategic objectives must be considered. ' And also: 'The implementation of the European Union's structural instruments is affected by administrative capacity problems resulting from cuts in public spending. ' In other words, the Minister for Education and Research has said that with the money at his disposal, he is unable to meet the objectives of education policy at the desired level and that, due to administrative capacity problems, the use of euro money will be hindered. Other ministries have also spoken about the problems in achieving their objectives. These concerns are not in the state's activity report, i.e. before you, good members of the Riigikogu, but these are serious signals that the budget of ministries may not be an infinitely stretchy rubber band, where internal savings can carry out all legitimate obligations and what is planned in the development plans. I beg you, get into these signals! The longer duration of this situation means insufficient investment in the development of the country and a decline in its administrative capacity. In reality, it strangles any development. The Estonian state cannot continue to act like an ostrich by hiding its heads in the sand and delaying important decisions. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The government has decided to surplus the budget. According to the Treasury Department, it will be there in four years. Last year, the Ministry of Finance was upset that I had taken their forecast too seriously. Therefore, I do not want to quote their new prediction today very much, but I will briefly draw your attention to the risks that could worsen the state of public finances in the coming years and exacerbate the problems I have described so far. First, of course, the European debt crisis and its impact on us. As of today, Estonia has promised to pay some 150 million euros to European rescue funds, and we have agreed to bail out debtors' loans to nearly 2 billion euros. We must find this money if the debtors fail to fulfil their obligations. Please don't ask me to predict how likely I think it is. However, we must be aware that then, in the worst case scenario, we should find an amount equal to one third of our annual budget. And I'm not so sure that the guarantees are enough. I am sure, however, that there is currently a lack of audit of these funds. We trust one international company with a significant share of the Estonian state's money, but the possibility of independent and public auditing of the European Stability Mechanism is not foreseen at the moment. This is necessary, however, for public money to be used effectively and efficiently in international organisations. The highest audit institutions in 14 other euro-zone countries reached the same position in Germany, who prepared a joint declaration on this issue, a copy of which we will also send to the Riigikogu. You have the opportunity to instruct the government to stand up for the interests of the Estonian state in establishing the European Stability Mechanism and to require that provisions on the organisation of auditing be included in the Treaty and the organisational documents. I hope that you will consider auditing the use of Estonian state funds to be important. Good guys in the hall! Another possible additional burden on the state budget is the questioning of the state's companies. Do you know how much money is needed, for example, by Eesti Energia and Estonian Air? I read in one of the documents submitted to the government that Eesti Energia has asked for 1.15 billion euros for the period 2012 to 2015, of which 150 million have been included in the budget in your hands. What are they doing with that $150 million? Recently, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications said: 'If we have to invest taxpayers' money in a state company, there is reason to ask what the company is giving in return. " However, the explanatory memorandum to the state budget does not talk more about these EUR 150 million than they are used to increase the share capital of companies. However, it is the same amount as was spent in 2006 to buy Estonian Railways back to the state, with an old currency of nearly 2.4 billion kroons. Honourable listeners! While we are talking about investments, the government's argument that they will increase in 2012 is true. But this increase would not exist if we did not have the proceeds of quota sales and other external subsidies. This year, 74% of foreign money goes to public investment. As I said earlier, state budget investments, which are not based on foreign money, are essentially frozen. They will only increase by EUR 3 million next year. About one fifth of all state budget expenditure for next year is paid out of foreign money, for example, the Ministry of the Environment covers 80% of foreign money, while the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications accounts for 44% of foreign money. Although we do not want to acknowledge this publicly, we are dependent on euro money and we must honestly look at the problems that result from it. I have two major concerns here. First of all, are we dealing with this money as if it were the hard-earned income of our own economy? This means, do we think through our investments, do we choose the most necessary ones, do we also consider future maintenance costs? The recent audit by the National Audit Office showed that this was not the case at least in the area of the Ministry of Culture. About 90% of the increase in the Ministry of Culture's budget for the last four years has gone, for example, to cover the additional operating costs and loan liabilities incurred as a result of investments. Secondly, I am concerned about the future of those areas that are very much dependent on the Structural Funds. I am about to mention, for example, environmental investments, refresher and retraining, business grants and research funding. The problem with foreign money is that it cannot be used flexibly, and it cannot be certain that the flow of foreign money will continue in the future. My question is: are we prepared to lose or reduce foreign money in a number of areas? I fear that in times of crisis, the Structural Funds have also become part of our daily spending, which cannot be abandoned so easily. After all, the Structural Funds have been helping to comply, for example, with the law of tea, by financing road maintenance. You say, of course, that euro money does not disappear. Indeed, the crisis shattered us enough, so we will probably get almost as much money as we currently have in the budget period starting in 2014. But there's a risk. The European Commission is considering changing funding principles so that only a few priorities should be chosen by the Member State. If the system becomes a key priority, funding needs to be significantly reduced in many areas, or so-called own money needs to be channelled there. Are we ready for this and can we ensure that the day-to-day performance of the country that has been paid with euro money so far does not suffer? Good listeners! I have talked for a long time about the country's sustainable development and risks, but I have to admit that my concern is getting even worse where the forecast by the Ministry of Finance ends. It may not come as a surprise to anyone that the population of Estonia is ageing and shrinking. Statistical Office, Eurostat and other forecasters see the pace slightly different, but no one sees population growth. Surely you know that the share of working hands in society is currently at its highest level, but the situation is rapidly deteriorating. In 2025, we have about 80,000 people of working age less than we do now. The ageing and declining population has a very significant impact on both the revenue and expenditure of the state. On the one hand, social costs are increasing even further, on the other hand, there will be a shortage of skilled labour needed to increase the productivity of the economy and the revenue of the state. There are already problems with the training of necessary engineers. Audits of the National Audit Office have shown that the general education system is not sufficiently prepared for further students studying natural sciences and sciences, nor is the system of retraining and further training aimed at upgrading professional skills or acquiring a new profession. However, the number of students will fall rapidly in the future. It is said that at least one million people are needed to preserve Estonian language and culture. I wonder how many employees are needed to maintain the functioning of the economy and national services? For example, in 2020, will the number of employees and their productivity be sufficient to pay the bills of the state, the salaries of teachers and pensions of pensioners and look hopefully to the future? Demographic processes also directly affect local authorities and their ability to provide services. I dare say that the train has already left the station because of indecisiveness and the dominance of some people's personal views. We will no longer bring the young people who have left the country back to the areas that have been thinned to a critical point; the entrepreneur will not create jobs, because there is no skilled working hands and the municipality has nothing to support the company. In some places, there are no more unshaking work hands in the morning. Interestingly, companies have also remained silent about this and moved their production elsewhere instead of requiring the government to act. The company might need land, but the municipality does not have it, because the state has not been able to decide on the need for land in the municipalities when the ownership reform is completed. The confidence crisis does not allow the unreformed land to be handed over to the municipality, as entrepreneurship is not the responsibility of the municipalities. What's the municipality's job, anyway? Even though the Supreme Court already said in March 2010 that the situation in which tasks are self-governing and undivided into state is unconstitutional. We see the fruits of confusion in reality. The State cannot accept that the municipality fails to fulfil the task assigned to it or offers a service of a quality that varies between non-existent and satisfactory. Until now, however, it is not desirable to decide which level of service can be considered guaranteed according to the Constitution. One reason for the fluctuating quality of the service is that two thirds of the municipalities receive 13% of the total tax revenue, while the remaining third can use 87% for development. In doing so, one and the other must carry out exactly the same tasks. But since nothing's been done, you probably don't see the problem here either. I can see it! Administrative reform is one of the reforms that I have emphasised in all my speeches since 2006. My views have not changed and it would already be tragic to repeat them again today. The Chancellor of Justice, who just appeared before you, once again made it so-called 'wood' and'red', but if the decision-makers do not have the will and courage to make the necessary reforms and to acknowledge their need, there is nothing to be done. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! By approving the debt rescue package, you have agreed to contribute large sums to the survival of the euro. Please, be eager to ensure the survival of the Estonian people and the state! Think about the number of working hands needed for the functioning of the Estonian state and what these hands must be able to do. Think about how to give a competitive education to the future generation, and think about how to provide dignified support to the elderly in the future. This is your constitutional duty. We must honestly look at our concerns about sustainable development. As we can see, there will be plenty of them both in the nearer years and in the farther. There is a need to fully support the earning capacity of the economy and to review all the country's higher spending points. We need to find out whether our higher spending areas, such as social protection, health care and sickness spending, are meeting their objectives and whether the money is being used as wisely as possible there. I am afraid that, despite the legalised costs, we will not have enough money to do so at one point or will be left with the investments that we have invested in. Dear listeners, Recently, a member of the Riigikogu, when he met the auditor of the National Audit Office, said that the self-thinking of the Riigikogu and rethinking the decisions of the government would mean something like a rebellion. What I would call this is a debate, an honorable and real inclusion of the role of a representative of the people. I hope that...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U4	Dear waitress, would you like to extend your speaking time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U5	If you don't mind, 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U6	Please, 35 seconds!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U7	I hope that in the annual review of the National Audit Office you will find a subject for discussion and who is not bothered to read, it will also see a number of pictures there. I wish the new Riigikogu strength and intelligence! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U8	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Heimar Lenk, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U9	Thank you. Honourable performer! You said that a number of the problems of the ministries will never be reported or the Riigikogu and the public. I am sure that when I say to Prime Minister Ansip in tomorrow's Riigikogu Question Time that the National Audit Office's review reveals a number of shortcomings in state governance and future scenarios, the Prime Minister will answer me as usual ironically: Lenk, you did not read the overview thoroughly, in fact it talks about the rapid development of the Estonian state, the fastest in Europe. I have a question for you. You have worked through many documents, from which such an attitude has been born and developed in the government of the Estonian state over these years?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U10	Thank you for your question. My answer would be two. On the one hand, the same Estonian success story we are talking about. I've had a lot to go to the republics of the former Soviet Union. Compared to these, Estonia has undoubtedly had a success story; no one can doubt that. If we compare this objective, which the government has set to reach the number of five wealthiest countries, we will take all information through this dimension, then in this case we will have to judge differently, to act differently, to decide differently. That's one. Secondly, with regard specifically to the fact that you have not read the documents thoroughly, you too must, of course, read the documents thoroughly. It is not impossible for members of the Riigikogu to receive these documents, not to say no, they are not given them. But what I said was that when the ministries presented their activity reports to the government, there was a list of their 68 tasks, which they said were outstanding. Of course, the Minister of Finance selects what he considers important and what he does not consider important. Well, what's important is maybe that the State Chancellery didn't approve one euro programme, etc., but the rest didn't mention it. My answer is: you read it yourself and tell me why they are not in the report that has been presented to you. None of these documents are in themselves secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U11	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. When I read your assessment, I paid particular attention to the chapter on energy, which you have titled 'Elevance in Energy'. This title speaks for itself. From here we can see that in a little less than a year's time, Estonian consumers can expect a price shock and a very bleak scenario of Estonian electricity generation. You will finish with 164 sentences: 'The State Audit Office considers that the competitiveness of oil shale electricity under open market conditions is questionable and there is a risk that oil shale plants will stop and investments paid off by Estonian residents have been in vain. ' Do you agree with me that, having carried out this analysis, today's government, especially the Minister of Economic Affairs, has acted unscrupulously or extremely irresponsiblely in view of Estonia's energy perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U13	Thank you for your question. First of all, this claim that there might be a price shock. It cannot be caught, but it will be hit anyway, because the price of electricity will increase in the public market. Let's say there's no other option here. What are Estonia's trends? You see, I remember that in the last 10 to 15 years, all this time, it's been reconfigured, starting with which stations we use to produce electricity. Whether we're using oil shale plants, using nuclear power plants, or bringing in significantly more wind-powered generators. That decision has to be made. Our fear that oil shale-based energy will be so expensive that under the conditions of the free market it may not be able to find buyers, that is the problem that we have brought before the honourable Riigikogu. We ask the Riigikogu to discuss this very seriously and make these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will stick to the 60 seconds provided for in the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act. There are a lot of questions. Please, the next one is Jaak Allik! Please press the "Word" button! Technical reasons for intermission one minute. Proceed to 10:40.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U15	We're continuing with the next questioner right now. The technician comes and cleans up the Jaak Allik microphone. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U16	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! I am forced to repeat myself and say once again that I believe that the majority of Parliament would prefer to see diagrams, comparisons with history and other countries in such an important report rather than cartoons, as was the case in the last Human Development Report. I think it would be more appropriate if such a report came from the National Audit Office, because the cartoon is known to be a crooked mirror, but we would still like a fair mirror. But my question is whether and when the National Audit Office intends to carry out a more thorough audit of how and how effectively we have used the European Union's resources. The Riigikogu would then be able to plan the next perspective as wisely and accurately as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U17	Thank you. First of all, I have to answer the pre-questioning comment. Look, it's such a style question. The previous Riigikogu was of the opinion that, listen, too boring to read, it might as well be illustrated. If the honourable Riigikogu does not want to see pictures there, it is the easiest way to take them out. At the same time, I must say that the format of our report has been set as an example in a large number of European countries. This report is not only for you who are smart, educated, you know the cause of many problems, but also for citizens to read. The usual person takes it in, and maybe he'll start reading it. I absolutely agree that we can take out these images, which is the easiest thing, although one of the initiators of the images was once Raivo Järvi, who said that it was very good if there were such impressive materials inside. But that's it. The second question you asked. I must tell you that we have highlighted the problems of using European funds in several audits. We have highlighted these since the issues of the municipality, where there are two adjacent sports halls or cultural institutions, a few kilometres apart. We have pointed out a case where a local government manager comes and says that who this fool built there an electric-fired workman's house that no one uses is expensive and that this house is not used at all in winter. In short, if there is interest, this is the target that we should specifically audit. We are ready to consider very seriously the use of European Union money. I can tell you my personal position. We have two money, we have the money of the Estonian state budget, which we read and what we look at, and then there is the money of the European Union, which we share with a much broader hand. In this sense, the state has nicely distanced itself that, for example, in the case of local governments, regional rural government, local government union takes and shares. They say you got it last year, but now I want it too. With these funds, this lack of rational vision and rational behavior. We take some aspect of monitoring in the use of European Union money very seriously and will try to audit it for you next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U18	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General! Unlike the pre-questioner, I like these cartoons, because this whole government thing isn't one big series of cartoons. The question, however, concerns one very serious assessment in this report. According to the National Audit Office, the objectives of the government's programme of action are rather aimed at maintaining the current situation and reviewing important spending areas, and reform is not as intended. There are no comprehensive reform programmes, which you repeatedly pointed out in your oral presentation. What do you think should be done to get the government to give up the narcissism that this is happening, which we will always hear from the Prime Minister in this Question Time and will also look to the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U20	First of all, I must say that there have been plenty of forecasts made in Estonia at different levels, which will be waiting for us not during the next elections, but in 5, 10 or 20 years. These parameters are clear in large frames. That's one. What to do with cartoons is hard to say. One says that cartoons need to be added, the other says that cartoons should be removed. Well, try to get this church in the middle of the village. But thirdly, the way you deal with your subordinate, the government you have appointed, and whom you are supervising, I find it very difficult to advise you here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U21	Thank you. We're going to try to give word to Jaak Alli again. Please, will it work?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U22	Dear Mr. Oviir! By expressing my longstanding and lasting sympathy for your identity, I must ask you a question, because in my interview with the Postman yesterday, you attacked me. You said there: 'Another beautiful talk that comes out is how politicians still fight to ensure that power does not dispel the people, that the local identity is still preserved, that those who want administrative reform do not care about democracy, etc. This is pure talk and demagoguery, trying to hide its real motives for sinking the reform. ' I must admit, these are my thoughts exactly. Indeed, I think that the local government is not merely a public service office; these problems can eventually be resolved differently. Local government is the place where local authority is exercised and the closer the power to the people, the less alienated and the more transparently controlled it is. Therefore, 15 municipalities would be disastrous for the Estonian state. I really think, like Prime Minister Ansipki, that the administrative reform, which would mean compulsory integration of rural municipalities, is not necessary for Estonia. Please, would you open up what my real motives are for such nonsense?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U23	Thank you for this extremely interesting question. I don't know your thoughts or anyone in this room. That's one. Second of all, I don't think I ever took Allik's name in my mouth. I'm sure there's a lot of different ideas, ideas around here. Last night, I opened a TV, in "Actual Camera" was the new governor of Saaremaa who said that an administrative reform had to be made. When we read an article by Jüri Raidla today, there were exactly the same questions. We're actually talking about what, right? We are talking on the one hand about tendencies that are. On the other hand, we are talking about the public services that the municipality must provide, otherwise it will lose. We can make clubs, culture and all other associations in this country, but it's not a municipality. The municipality has certain tasks that it must carry out. We state that the municipalities are unable to carry out these tasks. They can't fulfill them physically either, it's not about money. Sometimes people say, "Give me more money, etc." If one of the parish officials has eight tasks that he must perform on a professional level, it is not possible to do so, Mr Allik. This cannot be done! I imagine that despite your great talents, you can't simultaneously be a director, opera singer, film director, etc., even though such a thing would be very nice. After all, we are talking about the content of the matter: the municipality has certain tasks and is either able or unable to perform these tasks. Change these assignments! Do as it was during the first time in the Republic of Estonia, where the municipalities had six categories, each had its own tasks, one category, the other... The remaining tasks were carried out by the State. After all, the Chancellor of Justice has not been able to carry out his duties professionally at the moment. They don't have professionals! Find out how many specialists there are in Estonia in certain areas, in the area of planning, etc. What comes out? Interested parties take up and make these plans for a specific municipality or municipality where their interest is at stake. The public's interest is in the background. Then they come and say who the fool was, who had a village or some other settlement planned for the sea. We are talking, Mr. Allik, about the substance of the matter. I do not want to criticise your idea that the municipality must be closer to the people. We've all heard that. There's nothing new here. Change it, tell me it's not these tasks! Say that we will do as we did in the previous era of the Republic of Estonia, six categories of municipalities, each with its own tasks. But we cannot allow local governments to be unable to provide people with the service that their duty under the constitution and laws is. We're actually talking about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U24	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! Two words of picture material before going to the question. Yes, we Riigikogu people really don't need that. On a professional level, I think it's too much. But knowing the cultural story, we live in an age where people's reading skills are reduced and the sign word is superficiality. That is why I understand the approach of the Auditor General. But here's the thing. Your report was such a sign that the state has a duty to guarantee dignified old age and also to take care of teachers' salaries. At the same time, at the beginning of the real overview, the National Audit Office still has a finger held up, that the state reserves are not enough and the debt taking is, of course, with quite complex consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U26	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U27	What, however, do you consider to be a priority, either in maintaining public financial health or in the problems of salaries and pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U28	Thank you for that question. Again, we're getting back to the pictures of this collection. I also said, "Who doesn't want to read, look through the pictures." But that is not the problem right now, of course. Look, there is something very personal here, too, and it is difficult to bring the institution's position. Personally, I don't take out loans, I don't have any loans, and that's what I'm looking at in the country's activities. The Estonian people have gathered a great many proverbs about it over the decades, and the books also describe a great deal of what the loan entails. My whole problem right now is that, in fact, it is not my problem that fixed costs have risen to 75% and social expenditure is constantly increasing at an early pace. Where will it go now in a few years? It is not possible that we put everything in social costs and then read: we do not have the means to develop the education system; we do not have the means to develop this system. I am of the opinion that we should look at social costs from the point of view that they do not go aimlessly. Support from the state should be granted to those who are indisputably in need of this support. That would be the easiest way. I understand all the objections that are coming. To imagine how one child eats at one table and another child eats at another table, one table is what is supported by the state or comes with this support through the municipality, the other is not supported. It's all right, but there's one moment, it's money! We do not have more of this grabbing money than we do, nor do we see any big perspective in the future. Your job is to find that balance! I brought these figures out just to tell you. It is not possible that we will have some costs growing prematurely, and the activity that should bring us money in the future will remain in the background. The Minister of Education is right to say what to do, and I insist that I do not have enough money for certain developments. But that's your collective wisdom, maybe this picture material isn't the most important thing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U29	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm asking about paying the same attention. You have repeatedly emphasised in your presentation and also wrote in your report that 75% of the state budget expenditure is so-called fixed and the state has fewer and fewer available resources to implement its priorities. Actually, we talked about this five years ago, when that percentage was another 6, it was also a problem. We have done some things here, during the spring session we have reduced income tax incentives, we have completely decoupled electricity excise duties and pollution charges from financing environmental projects, we have reduced the value added tax incentives...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U31	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U32	My question is: are we on the right track? I mean, figuratively speaking, I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say we have two taxes that are not fixed, VAT and heavy duty. Are we on the right track if we limit tax incentives and fail to...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U33	Thank you very much to the questioner. The question is, are we on the right track? Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U34	Thank you for this question. I would say this: when the next Riigikogu election campaign starts, I will go to a meeting with my candidate and tell him whether I think we are on the right track or not. I cannot say here to the honourable Parliament whether Parliament is on the right track or not. Parliament is always on the right track.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U35	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U36	Thank you. I have to admit, I read this thing last night, and it totally took away my sleep. I have always suspected that our government is using socialist realism when it talks about the life of Estonia, but that is proof of that. But still, don't you think you might be too harsh on your assessments? I am interested, for example, in the part that concerns our medicine and, specifically, our family medical system. I also asked the representatives of the National Audit Office in the Committee on Social Affairs what an unjustified medical visit was. Is this the visit that I'm told I'm okay? I was told, yes, it is. What is an unjustified medical visit, and why shouldn't these visits come anyway, because not all people who go to the doctor necessarily need to be sick or die?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U37	Thank you for this question. As for taking your sleep away, I don't know what to suggest. You should visit the doctor and tell him he's asleep, so he'll give you something. That's one. Secondly, look, there's nothing new about these materials. During the year, all these materials have reached the Riigikogu committees' table. They have been discussed, and so far no material has been said that it is unfair, it is biased. The facts are right. Different views and different opinions on solutions remain. What does it mean, as you say, an unjustified visit? It's hard for me to begin to appreciate what things are unwarranted visits to doctors. All I can say is that we tested the family doctors. Family doctors say that you see that we constantly have old people who need social contact, not medical care. Of course, they're in pain somewhere, it hurts, it hurts, it doesn't sleep at night, but it doesn't mean... What does that mean? It means our money again. Every visit costs, every reception costs. Look, I've been told a lot, especially Eiki Nestor, that I'm against pensioners. I'm not against them! I'm saying think, we can't spend more than we have money. In this sense, we must also tell people not to go to a doctor unless you are in real trouble. Find other forms of social communication and places where you can go. I count the money. I'm not saying we have too much pension. I am not saying that we have too much access to medical care or that we need more education so that every village needs its own school. This, too, is an economic issue. In the end, how many schools can we support? We are actually consolidating schools to be able to come out with the same money. This is, in my opinion, the main problem we have in this case. You can't go through all things in politics. Of course, municipalities like to have their own school in each village so that each village has its own cultural house. But what does it cost to maintain them? You don't have any more money than they bring before you. Then share this money more wisely than the ministries, the government, and so on. It's all in your hands, too! This is your responsibility, and you can only ask about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U38	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Mr. Oviir! Thank you for your thorough presentation. How do you think we have a lack of laws or a lack of laws or a lack of an enforcement system to correct the disadvantages you have highlighted in your summary and report? Or is it a systemic problem and every time in our country problems recover and deepen?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U40	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U41	Thank you for your question. I do not find any significant contradiction here. Look, reform can't be permanent. Changes and developments can be continuous. The reform must be taken and done once and natural development will continue. That's the whole problem! You can't really pull education. We have to say that yes, this is the Estonian model now, we are implementing this model and now we are going to develop it over the years. If we are dealing with other,'structural' reforms, this is what we think should be done now and it is inevitable to move forward. There can't be a constant reform that we're taking again these municipalities just where Jaak Allik is? And we're gonna do it there, we're gonna do it the same today, we're gonna do it in a year, we're gonna do it the other way, and we're gonna do it the third way. We need to bring the system together, decide and do it, because one 15 years has already been renegotiated, this matter has been discussed. Reform can't be permanent, it's that slogan I could put out. It's progress, though.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U42	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U43	Thank you. Good Auditor General! I also have a question about this chapter entitled 'Explainance in Energy'. You have beautifully described the sad saga involved in the construction of a new block of our oil shale power plant, where the state has desperately tried to provide help, but nothing has succeeded. You also appreciate that this latest current scheme for the free allocation of CO2 quotas may not materialise. I have heard another option that can be implemented if this scenario really happens. It is to burn together chips and oil shale and pay for the support of renewable energy for chipping wood, which would be reflected in the price of all our electricity and, on the other hand, would significantly increase the price of chipping wood on the market. Do you consider this to be a sensible solution in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U44	Once again, the first approach. First of all, under the conditions of the free market, we cannot say that something is lowering or increasing the price of electricity as consumers. This price will develop in the market. That's one. Secondly, as far as this State aid is concerned, there are no very clear and unambiguous rules here. After all, there is always a time between Tallinn and Brussels to touch the borders of state aid. There's one idea, one idea, another one, a look at how it's reacted. So that, in my opinion, is what this is about at the moment. What about burning together? If we burn oil shale and chips together, we'll have our problems. As you know very well, this co-incineration has led to a sharp, multiple increase in fuel prices this autumn for those with stoves.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U45	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good Auditor General! You have touched on the need for administrative reform on several occasions today. As a former governor of the municipality, and as a governor of the county, I can assure you that, if the administrative reform initiated in Võrumaa by Robert Lepikson had been carried out nine years ago, the Auditor General would probably not have been able to use positive examples in this regard today. But my question is a little bit different. You have touched the outflow of labour, and it is indeed a problem that very many of our people are working in other countries. But can you tell us any good measures to secure these people here? I don't know what to say except to close the borders. And, if you don't mind, do you consider it appropriate to have a referendum on administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U47	I'd start at the end. I am not very convinced of the feasibility of a referendum, because I cannot formulate a question. The hardest thing about a referendum is to formulate a question. The question of whether you want administrative reform or not will give most people nothing because they do not know what its content is, what it means. In that sense, it's a problem. You asked how to hold people in Estonia. People cannot be held in Estonia. It's one of our advantages, people can go, too. They go for a number of reasons. One thing is that young people want to see how life is somewhere else in the world. The second is purely a question of wages; they receive much higher salaries there than they can be paid in Estonia. The situation can be stabilised with a few things: one is the interesting work that a person has, what he really wants to do, and the other is that we have to wait and hope for an increase in our wages. This is the only important opportunity we can build our future on. I don't really believe in the rest of the solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U48	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U49	Good President! Good waitress! In your answers, you once mentioned that municipalities could be differentiated according to their tasks into the classes of months, as they once did during the Estonian era. Do you see that there are enough local governments in Estonia now, or should there be more or less, than to differentiate them so that some services and others are provided somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U50	Thank you. First of all, as you yourself rightly said, it was before 1940 when there were many municipalities and everyone realized that they were unable to carry out the tasks assigned to them. Since they were unable to carry out their duties, they were divided into groups. But there must have been someone who took these assignments and who took them. These tasks, which a particular municipality was unable to carry out, began to be performed by the State. That's the first problem. Next, as far as the future of local governments is concerned, I only want to draw attention to one thing. The worst thing is when they say we're going to do the Commission again and we're going to investigate. In my opinion, the possible scenarios are sufficient at the moment and everything has been examined. It's more like a political line running through here. Let's say, a politically advanced person like I am, I don't understand why all IRL people say it's essential, it's inevitable, and all reform people say that listen, it doesn't give anything, it's demagoguery, it doesn't need to be done. It always amazes me that this line is so rigid that it comes out party-politically. But there are some more complicated and important calculations here, why it's either way or otherwise, which I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U51	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U52	Thank you! First of all, when I talk about the Riigikogu, or Parliament, I have no smile in the corner of my mouth or anywhere else in the corner. That's one. I am an absolute supporter of parliamentarianism, because I understand that many problems begin when we question parliamentaryism. But I want to tell you one thing. After all, Parliament actually works on the coalition and opposition principle. I have often wondered, listening to your briefing, why the opposition has so poorly prepared their questions. Why have they gone through such poor questions to the Prime Minister and others? If you're not happy with the Prime Minister's answers, why do you let your ears go and say he's embellishing the reality again? The system shall operate when the two sides are equivalent. The information you have must be exactly the same as the coalition has. As soon as the opposition relaxes, it is immediately felt in all areas of life. We have talked about the opposition quite enough now, but I repeat, the opposition should put itself much more together, starting with the examination of the issues. The opposition has shown here, for example, that some poor drafts have been submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings from the government. That's right, by the way. But I have also looked at the opposition drafts submitted to the government. Believe me, old man, these drafts are not stronger. There are still some problems in the explanatory notes as well as in everything else. Parliament's quality really depends on both sides. It's like a bird with two wings: if one wing doesn't swipe enough, the bird will sink to the bottom. But as a strong supporter of parliamentaryism, I continue to wish Parliament strength and success.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U53	Thank you. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U54	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! You also spoke in your report that the members of the Riigikogu could and should be more interested in all the financial separations that are directed at one or another public limited company through the state budget and brought out here Eesti Energia, but the annual report also states that AS Riigi Kinnisvara, AS Hoolekandeteenused and others have received taxpayers' money, which the members of the Riigikogu do not have a meaningful overview of. We will try to be more detailed in our written inquiries and oral questions to both the Prime Minister and other ministers. But my question is that last year, the government already made 11 agreements with its partners to sell emission allowances. Do you not feel that everything that relates to allowances has passed the Riigikogu? We do not have an overview of contracts, partners, their choices, etc. What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U55	My assessment is very clear. Only what the Riigikogu does not want to see will pass the Riigikogu. The budget and report will be presented to the Riigikogu in exactly the kind of breakdown you require. If the National Audit Office has sometimes proposed that this articulation may be more accurate, you can understand it, it could be more comprehensive, then the answer is very simple. The Riigikogu does not want it, it does not consider it necessary. That's a question in itself. As far as the sale of the quota is concerned, I know that the sale of the quota has its own specifics. But when you say that you want to see these agreements and know the principles under which this quota has been sold, I can't imagine some minister saying no, we won't introduce it to you. I just can't imagine it! If you confirm that you have asked, and you have been told that no, go to hell, we will not show these papers to the opposition, I will not believe this. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U56	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! You have also made an in-depth review of the field of culture here. It has been said here that the financial liabilities and operating costs of the buildings built or renovated in the last five years require an increasing share of the budget, reaching 12% of the budget already in 2014. You will probably know that next year the transfer of cultural property to Riigi Kinnisvara AS will also begin. Do you consider this to contribute to cost savings in operating costs and to improving the efficiency of all activities in the cultural field?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U58	Thank you for your question. I must say that I am the person who basically supports the transfer of real estate to AS Riigi Kinnisvara. The Ministry of Justice, which I was chancellor about ten years ago, first handed over its property to AS Riigi Kinnisvara. One ordinary ministry does not have people, does not have professional knowledge, does not fulfil the role of contracting authority, does not have the role of construction supervisor, and does not have the role of exploiter of construction. There are no resources for these roles! And if we see that most of these assets are transferred to AS Riigi Kinnisvara, I think it's right. All the more so as Parliament will then be able to get an adequate and professional overview of everything that is happening to state property from one place to another. As far as building certain objects is concerned, we often have what is in the background, which is costing the physical exploitation of these objects, how much management costs will be. How much energy does it take? What kind of energy is used? How much will it cost in the long run? As a result, we often have a problem with the fact that, three or four years later, we discover that the exploitation of these objects has become much more expensive than we originally planned, and it takes a large part of the resources available to our ministry to ensure, to some extent, the management costs of these items.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U59	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U60	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the National Audit Office! You have said that the competitiveness of oil shale electricity is questionable under open market conditions. In your opinion, what kind of electricity competitiveness would not be questionable? Is it wind energy or nuclear energy? I'm asking for your judgment!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U61	Thank you, good manager. Dear Auditor General! In your replies to this House today, you have gone much further than your written report does, and this is very welcome, it is positive. You have also come up with a number of smart solutions that may not all look so good in the written word. One of the issues you have addressed in this Chamber today is precisely making subsidies a necessity-based issue that would alleviate the burden on the state budget of fixed costs imposed by law. This is, of course, the case everywhere in countries with a declining and ageing population. But you have made a few good points here, for example, in terms of administrative reform. Do you have any other suggestions, what to do with this shrinking and ageing population? One measure is parental benefit, which has been introduced by the Riigikogu and which has increased the birth rate. Do you have any other suggestions on how to increase our population?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U62	Thank you! It is such a long and substantive issue. I would start with the fact that there is no problem-free country. If we are in Latvia and Lithuania, my colleagues will say that, for God's sake, you have no problem, no policy is stable, you see, we did not have Zatlers as Speaker, two votes and the entire government coalition has broken. That's one approach to this thing. I have always said in my opinion that the thing about reforms is that they have to be done at the right time, because any reform will inevitably backfire. I once gave an example that reform is like a disease. If you have cancer, it's treatable in the first and second grades, as the doctors say, but in the fourth grade, they say you don't have to poke, she's no longer treatable. Certain reforms are exactly the same. If I look at the political pressures that are now being exerted on members of the Riigikogu from all sides, you will understand, everyone wants something, then this is a decision-making issue. And ultimately, every decision comes to where? Coming to the next election. Soon there will be municipal elections; soon there will be elections to the Riigikogu. Inevitably, I have been following this, the promises that will be made before the elections, in particular, the quality of our electorate. You want the voter to like you, and then they say a lot of things that, unfortunately, have no rational cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U63	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U64	Dear Auditor General! I share your criticism of the system of collecting packaging waste. I agree that there is virtually no monitoring here. Packaging waste cannot always be given away near home, let alone comfort, and it is not enough to inform people. In addition, people do not really know that giving away packages is not free for them, but in the shop the handling fee is already included in the price of the goods for recycling organisations. We currently have two collection systems in parallel in Estonia, where one, EPP, has been given a monopoly and others are competing with each other, but through accreditation they also have almost monopolistic status. Do you think that major structural changes should be made in the area of packaging waste so that we do not become too expensive in the store and that there is less garbage under the forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U65	Thank you. I wouldn't make any structural changes. What concerns waste, including packaging waste, is primarily sitting inside us. There's nothing to do! When we start looking, for example, Ragn-Sells made this green bag round, where all kinds of packages are sorted out at home, where plastic comes in, where the paper comes in. That's where all these things start. On the one hand, we have all the systems. More should be said about the existence and promotion of these systems, and in the end all this will return to human consciousness. All sustainable behaviour, including packaging waste, sits very much in the minds of people. We always have to think about where these influences are. I know the most important influence that the child came home from kindergarten, shut down the water screen after his parents and said, "Oh, water is expensive, it's not worth spending so much, it's been said in kindergarten. A lot of things sit in our heads. I am not the person who says there are few laws, give laws, give laws, give laws! In my opinion, laws today must be made as little as possible and as much as necessary. Laws cannot compensate in certain areas, say, for a person's own shortcomings or for the development of a person's own development, for a person's own awareness. It doesn't help the laws to write that you don't throw trash under the woods.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U66	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U67	Dear Auditor General, I recently read the Human Development Report and it was a description of Estonia's success story on most points or, let's say, almost entirely. Then I read the National Audit Office's report and listened to your performance here today. As a matter of fact, you should be talking about more or less the same thing, but your report and this report from the National Audit Office I did not exactly get any positive points of reference. And then I thought maybe you forgot these. I am now offering you an opportunity, perhaps you want to mention a few things that the Estonian state has really done well and correctly. If you feel you want to name more of these things, name three for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U68	Thank you, good questioner! Each process has two sides: one is a positive side and the other is a negative side. Just as there are humans, we do not have complete angels and we do not have complete devils, for example, like you, right? That's one. Once again, if you look at the country of Estonia, it depends on what context we look at. If we look at the country of Estonia in this context, where we were 20 years ago, during the Soviet Union, then we have come out very well. Randpere, you said we're heading for the top five, the strongest, the richest, the happiest. Look, then we have other criteria! What the National Audit Office is talking about and must talk about is the question of the risks where we see the risk. I'm not sure these risks will always materialise, but we have to bring these risks before you because you are responsible. There are two sides. You guys here, some of you are saying that you don't want to listen to this one, positive side all the time, which in every phenomenon is that we also bring out this other side. If you say you see, in this other half, there can be no risk at all that our problems will solve themselves, I don't believe it. These problems need to be constantly worked every day, and you have to work with them every day, businessman Randpere! So I wouldn't say we're overly critical. We are pointing out the risks and they are not just mentioned here. These have been highlighted during the year in all the audits that our auditors have carried out. These audits have been discussed more or less in the ministries. I don't like everything, I don't agree with it. I agree with that, too. We are not the criterion of this last truth or the heerold here before you. But we will point out one problem, one position that we ask to take into account. We're not going to make decisions for you, but you can't just live in that so-called pink foam. You have to see the other side of this life. So, in this sense, our position is, to be said, a typical position of the country's supreme control authorities around the world. And as my colleagues have often said, we are not particularly loved for this in any country. But when we're alone with them, we get along very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U69	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! Thank you for this presentation and, of course, for these comments. I read this overview, illustrated by written and pictures, through it's practical and thorough. Today you have also given some funny and ironizing answers here. Also, when you mentioned the Riigikogu as the government's employer, you had a little smile on your mouth. I agree with that smiling, in fact, we still have the opposite. But I am interested in what you think on the basis of your experience in life: how can it be achieved that, in conducting discussions on the issues raised, there is greater synergy in society in the form of taking the right decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U71	Look, the old man is starting to think about the past. When you were saying here that a little better came out of my story than it was in that text, I remembered one of those things. Randper and I used to be assistant justice minister, and Erki Silvet started looking for new help because I had to move a bit. So I asked him that the last aid was singing help, the next one was me talking help, whether he was the third one to get dancing help. Erki Silvet said no, working help. That is the case with these questions. What's the problem? The problem is that such rapid changes are made very well when the National Audit Office has made a direct proposal to correct some specific error, to change something. About 50-60% of all our proposals will be implemented in one year or two. One part of the proposals, which is very hostile, is 'political positions', which say yes, politically we cannot support this proposal. Here I recall that we once made a major audit of peat products, peat extraction, etc. The then Minister for the Environment said that no, the girls who did this audit know nothing, but after three years all these proposals had been realised. That's the next question that's in there. In my opinion, our problem is the vigorous implementation of structural changes. I don't mind telling you again how much we're going to one place or another or to the third place. It's about education. We cannot support the education system with these funds, there is nothing to do! Then the whole social package. There is nothing to do; we must ensure that the money goes to whoever needs it, so that it does not go to everyone in general. Not because I'm sorry, but there's no other way. We cannot cope without administrative reform whether we like it or not. Jaak Allik can now say again that it is a local government and that it is the conscience of the people in it. Now, I'm gonna put words in your mouth because last time you said I'd said words that I didn't have. It's not like that. It's an objective inevitability, look around the world! These things must be done, even though they are painful things. But the further it goes, the more painful they get.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U72	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U73	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will continue with the question of Mr Clothing about the effectiveness of the use of European Union funds. I would focus in particular on adult education, most of which are financed by the European Union Structural Funds. You have carried out a thorough audit and found that the focus in this area is on quantity, i.e. up to a week's coursework and seminars. Quality is clearly low for such training and the EU, and budget money has been used relatively inefficiently. Your audit was published in September 2010 and the Minister of Education and Research then promised to take on greater coordination throughout adult education. I have a two-part question. First of all, it's been a year since your audit, have you seen any progress in this area? And more. In the 2012 state budget, large amounts of money are planned for adult education. Are the activities that are intended to be financed fulfilling the long-term objectives of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U74	In my opinion, what you have just asked about is one of the most complicated and difficult questions at all, the whole block concerning adult education. We can also bring this problem to the level of whether we can get qualified specialists in the areas where we need them. And we can hear the big Loksa factory declare to the public that you see, they have had enough orders, but it is not possible to find a qualified welder for these works. We need to overcome a series of problems concerning short-term training. I mean, we need to get longer-term training where a person can acquire a new qualification. In theory, it's very good to talk about how every person has to consider having to change jobs five or six times in his life. These training systems, which are currently being set up, do not satisfy the real need for professionals. But we are going to discuss our work plan, and I will talk to my colleagues, maybe we should carry out an ex-post audit in this area, given its importance. Then sometime in the summer we can report what has actually been done and how the Minister has kept his promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U75	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General, My question is about the sustainability of the forest development plan. You have criticised the fact that the development plan seeks to increase cutting volumes to 12 to 15 million cubic metres. I think that this is not a question of areas and cutting volumes as much as of the felling structure by tree species. We take the conifer, hard hardwood and soft hardwood, the pressure on coniferous trees is naturally great, because the conifer trees are useful for chopping. At the same time, the intensity of the harvesting circles is due to the fact that the forests are not overripe. In your analysis, did you also examine the sustainability of the development plan in view of the felling volumes of the various tree species? The Ministry of the Environment, in its report to the European Commission, has also noted that the old broad-leaf forests and Finnish forests are in a bad state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U77	This audit is about the structure of cuttings. It is not a question of the 'green mass' that we have, that if Estonia grows more like this and so many thousands of them, and so many of them we cut off, then that would be all. The problem we have highlighted is even more complex. It is also a question of the natural environment. The habitat of some species of plants, some species, can only be found in certain forest masses, certain ages in forests, etc. If we cut one too much, we will also do significant damage to nature. At the same time, the interest of all foresters, forest processors, forest owners is also clear: everyone wants a large, adult pine, spruce and similar forest. Here we believe there are problems and the Ministry of the Environment must deal with them, taking into account all aspects, not just economic aspects.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U78	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U79	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, When reading the chapters of the table of contents, it seems that the Estonian state is on the verge of collapse, with a lot of problems, reforms are required. At the same time, there is one chapter in which the education system is characterised by constant reforms. Is it not a contradiction here that, on the one hand, constant reforms are being called for, on the other hand, it is said deplorably that constant reforms are taking place?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U80	Thank you, first of all, for a very nice presentation with both a smart mind and a sense of humor and a little criticism, of course. One of the main topics is the reform of the local government that has now developed. Does it not seem to you that one of the reasons for the crisis in local governments is that they do not have a sufficient revenue base to carry out their functions and that they do not have an independent revenue base from the central government? This is precisely the kind of situation in which the central government or someone is expected to give or take something, which is conducive to slipping. You repeatedly referred to history and historical experience says: if local governments have clear rules of the game, they will soon learn to behave wisely, to behave with a sense of master and, as history shows, to learn to join.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U81	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U82	I asked you that once. Is it not, however, the main reason that local governments do not have a sufficient income base to perform their functions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U83	Thank you for that question. I think it's a bit of a one-sided hope that money settles everything. Money doesn't put everything in place. The basic issue that I think most municipalities have is competence. This competence cannot be bought in, nothing can be done. This voluntary merger, has anyone told you not to do it? It has been said, for ten years there has been talk of voluntary accession: unite, unite, unite! But you see, they don't unite, no matter what. It has been said that, well, certain functions could be performed together, but they would not be performed together. That's the reality of life right now. I believe that, of course, money is needed to carry out the duties of local governments, but it is not only money that can solve the problems of small and poor governments. There is a problem in this case, just lack of competence. After all, we have all considered how much one or the other needs one or the other specialists in the municipalities. And here's the question again. We've got a bunch of lawyers, all the colleges are letting them out like Vändra's lumberboards. But when we start looking, in many municipalities, even the parish secretary doesn't have a lawyer's qualifications. It was actually awfully surprising to me. The lawyer says how I'm still going to the country, I'm the only lawyer qualified person in the municipality, I have no one to discuss my problems with, and so on. I have the mind that the Pärnu governor once said. He said that if he wanted to have a legal service in Pärnu County, he would need to put a five-six lawyer in the middle of it, make a legal department to ensure that all the functions of this county are performed. I am not going to talk about what problems have arisen in the absence of qualified legal assistance from local authorities. By the way, the Chancellor of Justice told you long and wide what problems this has brought with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U84	Thank you. Please, Peter Kreitzberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U85	Thank you! Dear Auditor General! You and the head of government's assessments, I think, exceed the critical limit. Many of the views you have expressed here maybe you shouldn't have gotten into this book. I've seen that in the field of education, you've basically bombarded all four major activities pretty well. The Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act is poorly prepared for no clear objectives; even less clear is the means, the same applies to the reform of higher education, state secondary schools, education strategy. My question is as follows. You're in government meetings, and I don't think you're hiding your position there. In the course of the discussions, have you pointed out that draft laws must have a certain degree of maturity? If the objectives are a bit confusing and the resources are too, the drafts should not enter the Riigikogu in order not to waste Riigikogu time unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U86	Thank you for your question. Basically, our goal is not to sink anything. The goal is to bring the problems to you. That's one. Secondly, as regards the draft laws, especially the explanatory notes, which should show what problems and processes the law entails, we have audited their quality. In a few weeks' time, the committee will be able to discuss this audit with Mr Stalnukhin. You see, the whole problem is that there is an idea that could be done, but behind it there is no analysis of the problems and processes that can lead to its implementation. In short, transforming the political idea into practical, operational action is a huge undertaking. A great deal of political ideas are being developed, with a number of problems to realise, a whole series of difficulties.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U87	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'm asking you about adding money from the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund to the state budget. How do you comment on that? Will this achieve a seemingly balanced state budget and a lower deficit? If you read more here that the income of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund exceeds the costs by 650 million euros during the 2011/2015 period, does it make sense to keep so much money in the unemployment fund? Why don't we use the unemployment fund's money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U89	You know, I'm thinking about that answer right now. I'll give you a real bureaucratic answer. Dear Riigikogu, I regret to say that we have not audited it, which is why I cannot state my position.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U90	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U91	Thank you. Mr President, thank you very much for your very specific report. I would like to continue with the question of Mr Tarmo Tamme. Your report underlines that in a large number of important areas where the state has to spend a certain amount under legislation, Structural Fund money has been used instead. And you have said that, as the amounts of the Structural Funds cannot be guaranteed, the provision of labour market services, for example, is currently unclear. At the same time, we know that the unemployment fund is also collecting reserves during the current period when unemployment in Estonia is expressed in figures of two figures. These reserves are even being expanded. Do you have any plans to pay attention to how the labour market and in-service training currently receive funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U92	We have audited the labour market and continuing training. As there was also a proposal to analyse again what has been done, what are the problems, we will consider very seriously, at the next meeting, if we are going to discuss our new work plan, whether we are going to carry out a follow-up audit in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U93	Which one, in my opinion, would not be uncompetitive? You mean this? One aspect is that we have been very united on oil shale energy. We have been very proud: it is our own mineral resource! We have been able, in essence, to disengage ourselves from all other producers; we have been able to provide ourselves with the necessary energy supply, which is extremely important. It is no longer in the open market. In an open market, one who is able to produce electricity at a lower cost wins. If we cannot produce it cheaper than other energy producers in Europe, what can we do? In that case, we will have the opportunity to decide what we can actually do with this oil shale energy if others do not buy it because of high prices. If you start selling it below cost, it will cause a whole series of problems. As far as wind energy is concerned, you know very well the cyclical nature of wind energy-related complications, and all that is involved. When we look at what is happening in other parts of the world, for example, in Finland, nuclear power is very important. The Norwegians, however, largely use water energy to produce the electricity they sell. We also have calculations and calculations done. Eesti Energia also took up and began to undertake an in-depth research into the production of nuclear energy. It all depends on dozens of very different problems. After the tragedy that happened in Japan and after what the Germans decided on nuclear energy, the whole economic landscape has been disrupted and it is extremely difficult to take any clear position at the moment. Perhaps in a few years it will become clear that oil shale energy is extremely profitable. But we are talking about the situation in our audits in particular time and space.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U94	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! It was very interesting to listen to your presentation, and it is even more interesting to get answers to questions. Most of the cross-cutting topics have been touched by revenue-costs, money, how effective one or the other expenditure is, etc. As we know, a number of institutions, the Confederation of Employers, Eesti Pank and the IMF, have stressed the need to review our forecast of income more conservatively and to take serious risks into account when dealing with the state budget for next year. What suggestions do you have for us to deal with the state budget? The draft state budget will be processed next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U96	My recommendations are clear. You see, my ideology is simple: to be as conservative as possible. That's one. Secondly, account must be taken of all this turbulence in the global and European economies. We do not know what will happen in three months' time, in five months' time, in a year's time, what the economic climate will be like in Estonia, what it will be like in our neighbouring countries and elsewhere in Europe and worldwide. We are living in the worst period in which there are no clear economic forecasts that we can fully trust. In this sense, I believe that we must be as conservative as possible on these issues. Although we are borrowing to some extent, it is very easy to slip and stay on that path. It's so hard to stick it back in that Procruse bed. But that's my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U97	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U98	Thank you, Madam President. For my part, thank you, too, for the interesting and well illustrated material of the Auditor General. But here's the question. There is much to be said in your report about the need for administrative reform. In your speech, you also pointed out, among other things, that there are few specialists with such a number of local authorities. Yesterday, we listened at the joint session of the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act of the Ministry of Defence, to your auditor and representatives of its administration. It turned out that one of the reasons for the sad state of public procurement in this area of government is also the lack of specialists and the dispersal of procurement operators in the area of government. Hence my question: since we still have a duplication in the national system, should administrative reform not be accompanied by a pre-or parallel reform of the state in order to cut costs in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U99	I am of the opinion that these two issues can be viewed together by state reform and administrative reform. I must say that, to a certain extent, this consolidation is taking place. If we look at all the accounting records, the Ministry of Finance is actually consolidating everything to itself. In this sense, we can handle less but more qualified people. That is what I think is important. When we talk about consolidation, we often think that, oh, there is no administrative reform. Actually, it's all in society, but it's like under the counter, like, secretly. We remember how the police actually consolidated their actions, how the courts did it, etc. It was in the areas where it was possible. However, as far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned at all, in my opinion, the main problem of the Ministry of Defence, as well as your problem, is the desire to be like a country in a country. We are basically looking at the fact that, uh, we come out, we have defence expenditure of 2% of gross domestic product. It's all good, and that's what we're talking about. But we pay relatively little attention to what these sums can get, how rationally and rationally they are used, and what the Ministry of Defence's own role is in relation to the Defence Forces and its general staff. This is an extremely important subject, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U100	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U101	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! Today, there has been a long and much talk about energy and electricity prices in this Chamber, but my question concerns investments in Estonian Energy in Jordan and the United States. I didn't get any meaningful and understandable answers in Question Time. It is a serious concern for us, which is why, at the beginning of the summer, my colleague Laas and I have sent a request to audit the activities of Eesti Energia in relation to these investments. You replied in your letter that due to the lack of resources, you will not start this audit. But the question is still up and the problem is serious. Do you consider it reasonable to invest Eesti Energia in foreign countries, and where do you suggest we turn with this question to clarify the issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U102	If you start from behind, it is extremely simple: there is an Estonian Energy Council, which should give you all the information you want. The Council should approve investment plans etc. That information is available. On the basis of the information at my disposal, this oil production in Jordan and the developments in the US do not require Estonian taxpayers' money. Once again, it's based on the information I have at my disposal. It is the easiest thing for you to call here or for your committee, Chairman of the Estonian Energy Council, who will give you an accurate overview of what is going on there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U103	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U104	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question concerns the part of the report that talks about cultural investments, their feasibility and their affordability. According to the report, the Ministry of Culture could be renamed the Ministry of Construction, and soon we will be in a situation where we can heat up various cultural objects for the money we have available, but the representative collectives are unable to pay wages, not to mention the implementation of folk culture, literature, sports and art programmes. In fact, we cannot do cultural policy. The report speaks of last year, so these actions have already been carried out. Aren't you afraid that this kind of madness could hit other ministries and areas? Are you planning to check other ministries from this point of view, or at least point that out?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U105	Thank you for your question. I remember what has ever been said by the current Minister of Culture, Rein Lang. At that time he was not the Minister of Culture and then was his beloved ironic expression that 'if I hear the word 'culture', I want to grab the bell'. We all know that. But the problem isn't just the Ministry of Culture. The easiest thing is to pour certain things into concrete. Unfortunately, the operating costs of the objects are often in the background. We have had a proposal from many sides to look at what has now become of these investments, and we are very seriously discussing whether we should not carry out an ex-post audit and examine how the operation of these cultural objects has gone, which we have talked about so much here today. But right now, I don't have any more information to take away from you to give it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U106	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to touch on your report, perhaps the most fundamental part of it, the concern about our state budget and also about the sustainable development of the country. You expressed concern that the share of statutory fixed costs is still too high in our state budget, and in part you have already answered questions on how to improve this situation. You referred either to a reduction in social costs, but at least not to an increase, the same is true in the area of education. Do you think there are other areas that we should critically consider, including legislative changes, in order to reduce fixed costs in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U108	My argument was actually based on a purely financial estimate. If we already have 75% of the purpose of spending under the law, then we immediately have the question of what we will have to do with the development that we will have to do with everything else in these areas. Secondly, we have shown that social costs have increased more than twice as fast over the last five years. We need to find a balance here. It is very difficult for me to say right now, if we were to discuss it somewhere in the Commission, then we could analyse our audits once again. Whether we are talking about medicine or other areas where consolidation is possible, no one really likes it. How many hospitals can we support in Estonia? We have a hospital in Pärnu, we have a hospital in Valga, we have a hospital in Võru, we have a hospital in Rakvere, we have a hospital in Jõhvi. They're all nice and good, but they're demanding two things: money to support and specialists. I used to talk to doctors from the PERH hospital who said they just came from the United States and there was about the same hospital. They gave the example that there is an operating block 24 hours a day, people changing. And here, at 3:00 a.m., you're gonna be pulled up and told you're going into surgery in half an hour. They say we don't have the money to use the resource differently. When you think about all kinds of equipment and other aids the giants want, what the Võro people want, what I don't know who else absolutely agrees! Get it if you got the money. However, there are no resources in Estonia. There's a problem with the medics, and the problem is financing hospitals, whether we like it or not. Today I read somewhere that signatures were collected to keep the maternity department at Rapla Hospital. I'd put the other side there: maybe I'd start collecting signatures to keep the babies there. Then it would make a big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U109	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U110	Thank you, honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Auditor General, I'd like to keep talking about a few things, and I'm sure these options will come up, but right now, to the question. There has already been talk here today about education reforms and, in your quite direct wording, about how they have been prepared. Looks like you guys are talking pretty smart, and a lot of people are gonna listen to you from time to time. As far as education reforms are concerned, you have said that an idea is being put forward, but that analyses have not been carried out. Looks like we're back on the same bike now: the minister's shift, but the ideas remained the same. Once again, we hear that there are 71 upper secondary schools left, 58 and 59 are also offered, but 71 are, like, sounded. So the question: do you think there is an analysis behind this number this time, or do we have reason to expect a similar conclusion from you in a few years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U111	I indirectly answered that question. The problem that there is a political idea, but its operational side has not been worked out, is not only one area concerned. This is not just about education. I can give an example here of land tax and many other ideas. These are politically airy ideas, they fly, the people support them. But the problem is in nuances if we start to implement such an idea in concrete terms. In other words, if you, ladies and gentlemen, once again have a very airy and beautiful and good idea before the elections, which the voters would support, then a brain trust should first be established, who would work through them and who would also plan their implementing solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U112	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General, It's interesting! You said that one coalition party wants administrative reform; the other, where I belong, opposes it. In order to be fixed in the Steinogram, I recall that almost four years ago the political parties represented in the Riigikogu had agreed on the principles of administrative reform. Five of the six political parties were more or less in agreement, one party replaced the minister coordinating the process. Obviously, it is not about wanting, but about the principles of what reform should look like. Here's the question. After which you will briefly recommend this long discussion: should I, as a member of the Riigikogu, vote in favour of approving the country's 2010 financial year summary report or against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U114	What do I suggest? Should you vote in favour of the summary report for the financial year? If this summary report pleases you, Mr. Understood, please vote for it with two hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U115	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U116	However, I do not think that Estonia is too pleased with itself. Estonia has undergone the economic crisis of recent years quite smoothly compared to countries like us. We Estonians are too demanding of ourselves. We have only achieved one thing, but we are already beginning to pursue new goals without stopping for a moment. There is no doubt that criticism is justified that cutting, which is essential in the short term, is not sustainable in the long term. Of course, Estonia needs reforms to adapt to changing circumstances. Compared to 20 years ago, the situation in the country has changed a lot, with living areas, housing areas and population age. These changes must be adapted to administrative organisation, education system, social welfare, public service and all other functions of the state. Undoubtedly, the state will spend money unnecessarily if it postpones the necessary reforms. Deferral is always a waste. Adaptation is a question of survival in both philosophical and practical terms, both in nature and in state order. Auditor General Mihkel Oviir states that within a few or three years, almost 50.60% of the audit proposals will be implemented, even three quarters or more in the case of financial audits. The proposals of the National Audit Office are and should be based on the perfect situation in their nature. Practical management is the management of processes carried out by people who are not perfect and do not act in perfect conditions. However, such a high percentage of implementation shows that the opinion of the Auditor General is important and that the national institutions take the implementation of the proposals very seriously, even if the Auditor General feels that the changes are not rapid enough and that it seems tragic to repeat their needs. But in any case, we must repeat and address the shortcomings in the regime as long as they have been corrected, then start adapting to the new circumstances. On behalf of the IRL Group, I thank the Auditor General and his service for their thorough and diligent work, as well as for constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U117	Thank you. Neeme the Great, please. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U118	Madam President! Good fellows! Today we are discussing the National Audit Office's review of the 2010 work. The National Audit Office is an independent institution acting in the interests of and on behalf of the Estonian taxpayer whose task it is to investigate how the state and local authorities have spent the taxpayer's money and what they have offered for it. The Auditor General as an institution and the National Audit Office as an institution are the direct manifestations of democracy in the organisation of the government of the Estonian state. The National Audit Office is objective and independent, careful and competent, cooperative and open, and I can confirm this as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. It is very sad to note that government departments often try to reduce, underestimate or ignore the work and activities of the National Audit Office and its results. It has to be acknowledged that the questions raised by the National Audit Office in its review of 2010 have often also been raised by opposition parties. They are often muffled by political rhetoric and parliamentary power. What is more: as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, it has to be admitted that sometimes it is strange to listen to the replies of a representative of some authorities to a representative of the National Audit Office. If the representative of the Ministry, member of the Cabinet of Government or member of the governing party in the Riigikogu responds to the conclusions of the National Audit Office as one of the good teflonpann, then it shows distrust and disrespect for one very important and non-political institution. The conclusions of the National Audit Office are very and very thought-provoking. Moreover, they also force action. The state's energy policy brings every person in Estonia one step closer to personal bankruptcy. Solutions designed to develop oil shale energy do not hold water, or electricity, or heat. The price of energy is rising exponentially, but it has hardly even begun to inform the population. This is not political rhetoric; this is an overview by the National Audit Office, which is based on the audits carried out by the National Audit Office. The number of public services provided at primary level is decreasing and their quality varies. Centralisation in public administration excludes both communities and administrations, while structural reforms are not being carried out or are moving forward. The education system needs not half of the reform of higher education, but comprehensive planning. Public administration needs a comprehensive and substantive state reform to ensure optimal costs for public administration and access to high-quality public services in rural areas as well. The administrative reform is based not on drawing borders, but on a substantive division of functions between local, regional and national levels. The Social Democratic Party congratulates the Auditor General for his excellent presentation and wishes all colleagues to have a countrymanship in dealing with appropriate and constructive criticisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U119	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U120	Madam President! Dear Auditor General! Ladies and gentlemen, A good doctor who has diagnosed a serious illness always has two options: either tells the patient honestly about his illness or whispers it to the patient's relatives. The National Audit Office of the Republic of Estonia is the same doctor for our country, and it has chosen the only right way to speak boldly and openly about the problems that plague our lives, even in the long run. The country is sick, the symptoms speak for themselves. One or another theme included in the overview may be taken at random. For example, the impact of legislation is assessed in a low and superficial manner. We, too, recently took the courage to guarantee EUR 2 billion, while no impact analysis was attached to this draft. The education system needs comprehensive planning at all levels of education. We know perfectly well that this is like wartime, because we have three sets of classes in schools, the tenth, seventh and fourth classes, who study without textbooks. Yesterday, the Commission asked Mr Kontrolör about the possibilities that the National Audit Office needs to have to face these shortcomings. He replied that he would probably hear this question for the tenth time and the tenth time could be answered that no new opportunities are needed for the National Audit Office. All these opportunities are concentrated here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. But when it comes to the state as a patient, he too has two options: either he starts treating the disease immediately or spits on the doctor's advice and pretends to be healthy until he is eventually killed by a worsening disease. We now have a choice as to which way we are going: either we take the assessments of the National Audit Office into account or we pretend that nothing dangerous is happening. It seems to me that it would be wiser to start destroying the Troubles before the Troubles destroy us. But whether or not the Riigikogu can solve the problems facing the state depends on us in this Chamber, our attitudes. At this point, I would say that if the Auditor General compared us to a bird that has only one wing and tries to fly one wing, I would compare us to a person who tries to think half of the brain. There's nothing good to be expected of this. Naturalists claim that during the drought, animals gather at the semi-dry pond, and the tiger does not touch the antelope. When the forest burns, the wolf and the rabbit run away together and the wolf doesn't try to hurt the rabbit. I would say that wisdom is not so much about making mistakes as about predicting problems that might arise in the future. And solving these problems will only be possible if the style of our cooperation changes in this Chamber, if the quality of cooperation increases, if the coalition starts to take into account not only its own opinion but also what it hears from the opposition side. We're quite different here. I've already made a comparison with animals. It is, of course, difficult to tell where the wolves are and where the sheep are. On the one hand, it's like teeth and power on the right hand, but on the other hand, when you look at how coalition ambassadors feel absolutely uncritically about this garbage, which is sometimes sent from the government to this hall, it's hard to call them wolves. Quite the opposite. On behalf of the Central Party Group, I would like to thank the National Audit Office once again for the work it has done throughout the past year. We hope that the problems raised will not only be discussed, but that some things will also be resolved. However, this depends to a large extent on whether we can find common ground in this Chamber in the future or whether a small civil war will continue for all these four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U121	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. I shall close the negotiations and close this item. Thank you very much to all those involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The next item is the approval of the country's summary report for the financial year 2010. According to § 135 of the Constitution, the Auditor General will present to the Riigikogu an overview of the use and preservation of state assets in the previous financial year just before the item on the agenda. That is why I am asking quite specifically: what, in your opinion and as you have identified, is the state of the use and preservation of state assets in the last financial year 2010 in the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U123	Thank you for this question. This whole process has been a twofold one for me. On the one hand, you have been given an overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2010, on the other hand, I have marked certain issues, certain problems, in my report. As regards the review of the use and preservation of public assets in 2010, the good state of our public finances is sustainable if we focus on boosting the competitiveness of the economy and sustainable development of sectors. That's one. We have analysed all important economic transactions from the perspective of the State Budget Act 2010. There have been some minor errors that do not affect our overall assessment. The National Audit Office has approved the consolidated report of the state for the financial year. We've also been working on materials that you haven't taken in. Our question is what materials you need to make your decisions. This is a matter of principle now! We have audited these materials and we have to say that the transactions and the report that have been written are correctly reflected. I was pushing for what needs to be done so that we could assess the budget in the same way in five years' time, in ten years' time, etc. Consequently, there is a clear need for structural reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U124	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U125	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Auditor General! Yesterday, we presented an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications in this Chamber, whose questions were related to the fact that the public heard through the press that Eesti Energia allocated 2.6 million euros to Nordecon without public procurement. A lot has been written about it, but in connection with this, Mr. Auditor General, I have a question: how much money does the National Audit Office have to be involved in order to intervene in the process?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U126	I must say that there is no definite financial dimension here. First of all, our resources are limited. That's one. Secondly, we will draw up our annual work plan, and you will also present us with more proposals than we can realise. We have included some processes and problems outside the general work plan, including those related to Tallinn Port. We have also shaped our positions in certain areas regarding Eesti Energia and so on. But if there are specific problems, not doubts, and if you think the National Audit Office should investigate some of the matters for this and that, then we will try to do everything we can. If the case does not fall within the competence of the prosecutor's office or the police and you are not satisfied with the answers of the Minister of Economic Affairs to your questions, you are not satisfied with the positions of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the National Audit Office will try to get the problem to work and find a way to audit the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U127	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Auditor General, I will join those who have spoken good words about this review. It's really so interesting, you might call it exciting. It is also instructive. I think that not only members of the Riigikogu, not only government officials, should be familiar with it, but its readership could be much, much wider in the interests of the future of Estonia. Here is my question: do you see any opportunity to make the overview available to everyone, including those for whom Estonian is not the native language? How would you feel about this at all, and do you see an opportunity to translate the overview into Russian?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U129	Thank you for that question. First of all, we have it on our website, everyone gets it from there. We also printed a certain amount to give an overview to some people, sent it out. As far as the translation into Russian is concerned, we must consider it. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the website of the National Audit Office is also in Russian. Although we do not fully account for all the audits there, the summaries do exist. I will discuss the matter with my communication people, and the next time I have the chance, I can answer you how we will proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U130	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mihkel Oviir! We have heard some crunchy criticisms here, especially regarding omissions in one, another or third area. One argument, however, was that we want the voters to like us too much. But now I am going to ask you a little provocatively: who wants to like the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U132	Look, it's very easy for me to answer this: the National Audit Office doesn't want anyone to like it. In this sense, the Auditor General has a special position. You don't have to like me. I don't have voters. I can imagine what pensioners will say about me again. Some time ago, we were talking about raising the retirement age. It was inevitable. This is my special condition. I would, of course, like you as a person, I would like to get along very well with everyone, but as Auditor General, no one needs to like me, and that is my position in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U133	Looks like there's no more questions for the Auditor General. Thank you very much, Mihkel Oviir. We're going to negotiate. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Auditor General! Today we listened to a brief overview of the use and preservation of state assets, which summarised the report submitted to the Riigikogu in writing on 70 pages. This highlighted the main findings of recent audits, gave an overview of the work done by 90 employees of the National Audit Office in the last year. As a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I dare confirm that this work has been done well. The audit reports submitted to the Commission have been prepared in depth and in detail, taking into account the views of the auditees themselves. Audits in specific areas have assessed the financial regularity of economic activities and compliance with legislation as well as the sustainability, efficiency and effectiveness of meeting substantive objectives. The purpose of the activities of the National Audit Office is to give the Riigikogu and the public confidence that public funds are used legally and effectively. However, I would like to emphasise in particular one aspect that, in my opinion, received too little attention in the last week. On page 5 of the review at issue today, point 4 states: 'At the same time, the report on the implementation of the state budget, which is part of the 2010 annual report, cannot be satisfied. In order to be transparent in the use of public funds and to be able to take account of the report when making new budgetary decisions, the data on the budget adopted by the Riigikogu, the final budget and the actual implementation of the budget must be presented in a comparable form. ' The 2012 budget has already been presented to the Riigikogu, whose explanatory statement on 313 page contains a number of sectoral objectives and activities necessary for their implementation. The Riigikogu will debate them passionately for three months. This was probably the case in 2010. However, in the context of the annual report, the Riigikogu receives a 15-page table of accounting data for transactions carried out. The first phase, which is planning, will be thoroughly implemented in the process of public budgeting. It is confirmed that the second phase, based on accounting data, has been carried out correctly. But a very important phase of a substantive assessment and for the next few periods, the acquisition of knowledge and experience is almost out of the question. In planning the next period, account shall be taken of previous period's accounting data and not of substantive estimates of activities. The National Audit Office does not appreciate political objectives, but is critical of the political institutions of the state, the activities of the Riigikogu and the government, as well as inaction. The criticism is based on in-depth analysis and is remarkable in its constructiveness. At the same time, I would like to point out that the result of the audit may also be a positive one, perhaps a little. Although, in principle, it is always better and the task of the National Audit Office is primarily to draw attention to shortcomings. Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U135	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U136	The next item is the first reading of Bill 91 of the Riigikogu's resolution 'Accepting the State's summary report for the financial year 2010. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I will present to you the country's summary report for the financial year 2010. In 2010, the Estonian economy returned to a deep recession and its signs are also reflected in the country's consolidated financial report. The financial performance of the public sector was significantly better than in 2009. I would point out from the activity report that last year was also a time of great results and recognition for the country: we earned an invitation to the euro zone and it was also a signically important thing to join the OECD. We could look back, with satisfaction, last year, on the state's actions in the face of the crisis and on the importance of keeping the budget in balance and avoiding the growth of sovereign debt. The submitted summary report shall be drawn up on the basis of the reports of all public entities. The summary report shall consist of an annual report and annual accounts containing information on the state, local government, government and public sector as a whole. The country's consolidated accounting result for 2010 was EEK 0.7 billion. By comparison, in 2009 it was EEK 8.8% billion. Total government revenue was EEK 1.2 billion in 2010, compared to EEK 11.6 billion a year earlier. The general government surplus according to statistical rules was 0.15% of GDP and the debt ratio was 6.6% of GDP. The revenue from the state budget was received by EEK 87.8 billion in 2010, which is EEK 2.1 billion more than in 2009. This relatively small difference reminds us that unemployment was still in the growth phase at the beginning of 2010 and it only started to shrink in spring. The public budget expenditures amounted to 87.37 billion kroons more than in 2009. The revenue from the state budget exceeded expenditure by 0.1 billion kroons, with expenditure exceeding 1.7 billion kroons a year earlier. In 2010, thanks to fiscal moderation, we were able to maintain a relatively stable financial position, and we need to maintain a similar moderate line in order to ensure a balanced development of the country in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U138	Thank you very much. And now the questions. Kalev Kallo, please, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U139	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Here's the question. So let's read this report, and it's a series of numbers, but it doesn't get any smarter than that. It was also said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that, if you take the 2010 budget and this report together and try to compare them and find out how the budget has been implemented, it is not possible to do so in general. Yesterday, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it turned out that if we could get the specialists from the Ministry of Finance to help, we might be in trouble. Here's the question. Has the Ministry or you personally not thought about how it would be easier in the future to compare the implementation report with the annual budget both in line and in the explanatory memorandum? The budget explanatory memorandum explains very carefully what is going to be done and where is it going to be done, the report could then state what succeeded and what failed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U140	There are some methodological reasons why this is the case. And it seems to me that this difference is not actually quite manageable. Similarly, it is misleading to compare the budget and results. Rather, we will introduce new principles of budgeting, which will also allow a better comparison of substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U141	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U142	Thank you. Mr Secretary of Finance. I ask you about this draft decision on the first part of the report. When I compared the government's fairly rosy activity report in the field of education with the corresponding chapter of the National Audit Office's review, which is extremely critical, it is like night and day. Then I read the Auditor General's review of item 75 and I understood what was going on. I quote: '... Although all these ministries had identified in their 2010 Action Plan implementation reports important objectives and activities that were not achieved and carried out, the State's 2010 Annual Activity Report mentions only a few concerns or concerns raised by ministries. ' The Auditor General thus claims that only a positive display creates a biased picture of the government's activities. This means that the Riigikogu and the public do not have reliable information to evaluate the activities of the government. That's a real accusation!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U143	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U144	How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U145	If I wanted to answer in the Auditor General's style, I would say that the Auditor General's overview gives a worse picture of the reality. He said exactly the opposite about the reports and about the government. In my opinion, this is not only due to the specificity of his profession, but also to his personal characteristics. It tends to be a bit of a tradition that at some point the Auditor General would rather like to please a wider audience than give neutral assessments. In itself, there are very good places in his analysis; he is very strong in some analyses. In some, it's weaker. There's an analysis pointing back at someone else. But the whole style and the final impression could be more neutral. As far as this report is concerned, I would argue that it is dry and accounting. That's what the specifics of the area that hold back their judgment. The details of the ministries' reports are not all in the summary report, whether they are positive or negative. But I'm saying that in style, it's more neutral and appropriate than the overview you just listened to here. It was too estradic, really.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U146	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Did you also report this consolidated financial year in your political group and did the group shape its position? Why am I asking that? Because during the debate on the previous item, Peep Aru asked the Auditor General whether he had to vote in favour of approving the 2010 report. He asked the Auditor General. Did you two discuss the matter and form a position in the group?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U148	I think that this report is not such a political issue that the group is the right place to discuss it. I'm afraid it didn't come up as a separate subject. Look at this agenda, if the Minister had to discuss all the items on the agenda with a separate group, the executive power would undoubtedly run down. It is an accounting document and it is hardly in the right place in the group. Rather, it is in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, in terms of approval or approval, in terms of how this formula is in this big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U149	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! I also asked the Auditor General that many things are not reflected in the annual report and run by the Riigikogu. One such theme is all that relates to emission allowances. You said a lot of ministry reports don't run into this recapitulative statement. Where would a member of the Riigikogu be able to read from all the analyses on the basis of which the relevant agreements were made? As we can read here, 11 agreements have been reached last year. How were the partners chosen, etc.? Where can this information be obtained?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U151	This is certainly the subject of substantive parliamentary scrutiny. There are different forms: there is a written and oral question, there is an inquiry. I could be one of your respondents myself. But for starters, of course, I suggest you visit the homepages. I believe that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance have already found something on their website. However, to comment on your introduction, I must say that this is a summary report. It is not the case that the reports of the ministries are not reflected in this. On the contrary, everything is reflected, but they are aggregated, generalised. The detail is much less than that. Inevitably, certain topics cannot be mentioned separately, but they have all been analysed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U152	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U153	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. We participated in the discussion of the Auditor General's overview for several hours, and it was quite sharp, critical. Can you tell me about this: the Ministry of Finance is making its own report, it's his own profile, the Auditor General is making his own report, it's his own profile. These are two parallel areas that do not touch each other. It's like they can't be brought together in this critical part because they didn't touch themselves. That's how I see it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U154	No, that's not the right idea. If you look at the correspondence between us and the Auditor General, we will always take this criticism in substance and my letters have, above all, included acceptances. But we can't agree on certain things. However, the rate of deterioration of the National Audit Office is not comparable to that of professionals. Sometimes they take this into account in our mutual consultation, but sometimes there are assessments that are not adequate for us. We do not have the goal of embellishing anything, it is not my custom, nor is it the custom of accountants who produce these reports. I think that such reproaches in this context are not fair. The Auditor General could still look again at the title of the report and the item, and focus on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U155	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U156	Thank you. Let me be clear about this: do you think it is right that the report has, in particular, mentioned the objectives that have been achieved, and relatively little is said about the many objectives that have not been achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U157	Thank you. I still can't imagine the state's actions being that we have points that we pass through in turn, and then we cross back somewhere. The country's objectives are more general and more specific. More specifics can be fixed than those passed, more generals are eternal. I don't quite understand this scale and I don't know how to answer it. We're still reporting on the things we've done. Perhaps the opposition would like to hear that accountants also deal mainly with government criticism. When I myself listened to your presentations with half my ear, I felt a little regret that discussing the National Audit Office's review would be such a way to get on one side of the hall and to accuse the other side of not accepting it or what it was like. For example, I had to listen to Mikhail Stalnukhin in this hall. There is no need to make such a political instrument from the Auditor General. He's an emotional person, he goes along, and then he's just unpleasant.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U158	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. I would like to ask Mr Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, for a co-report. Although we have 16 minutes, let's finish this procedure, whatever its length.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister said, this is a relatively accounting document, but I will give you an overview of what was said in the Commission on this matter. It was on the Commission's agenda on 10 and 17 October. As a representative of the initiators, the draft was presented by Juta Maar, Head of State Accounting Department of the Ministry of Finance, and by Sven Kirsipuu, Adviser to the Public Finance and Strategy Department. It was October 10. The summary report also includes a review by the National Audit Office, which we have already heard today, which was discussed at the Commission on 17 October. Auditor General Mihkel Oviir and his team also participated in this meeting to present the National Audit Office's overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2010. The purpose of the draft is to allow the state to control the government while giving the government the opportunity to explain its activities during the accounting year and to provide the Riigikogu with the necessary information for making new budgetary decisions. This is what the minister did in the committee and now in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The summary report for the financial year 2010 shall consist of the annual report and the annual accounts. The annual accounts are, in turn, separately broken down into consolidated and non-consolidated annual accounts. Additional information is about local governments, the public sector and the government sector. Now, the specific issues that were touched on in the Commission, I marked them out during the Commission's sitting. A question was asked about Eurostat's accounting methodology: do some investments by Eesti Energia and Estonian Railways, for example, enter into Eurostat's calculations. 'Eurostat is only interested in the government sector,' was the minister's response. The question of the publication of budgetary positions was asked about how the state would publish them. The Minister said that Estonia is one of the few countries where budget positions are published each month. Interest was expressed in recording and directing possible surpluses in the state budget. In response, it was explained that they were recorded in the cash flow statement as separate decisions. The current understanding of the Government of the Republic is that if there is a surplus, it will be placed in reserve or the loan will be repaid. Another question was asked about forest re-evaluation: the country has a well-known forest, and how about this re-evaluation? What is the accounting value given to this forest? Is it based on the auction price or some other price? In reply, it was explained that the Ministry of Finance will base the valuation of the forest managed by RMK on future periods and will base it on the price that is currently being recalculated for future periods. Interest was expressed as to whether local authorities would be consolidated in the country's balance sheet. The answer was that, yes, indeed, in the report, local authorities do exist in a nice way. In particular, there was an interest in the shares of Estonian Railways, how they were reflected in the report. Three years ago they had been recognised at cost, but now they have been revalued at current value, which is less than purchase price. There was also an interest in the 2010 reserves. This is precisely in the context of the decrease in reserves compared to 2009. The Minister reported that Elering was bought out in 2010 and the participation in Estonian Air was increased. More questions were asked about the fines imposed by the police: how many fines have been imposed in 2010 and how much of this money has actually been received. We got information about that later. Yesterday, a separate account came of how many fines have been imposed over the years and how much money has been received. These are all the questions raised in the Commission. The Auditor General visited the Commission on 17 October, as has been said. I'm not gonna go over what he said for a long time, but he basically brought out the same things that have been heard in this Chamber today. He pointed out that the share of fixed expenditure in the state budget was relatively high at 75%, which he also mentioned in the remote control. This figure is too high. The Auditor General also mentioned that the state's assessment of the impact of legislation is weak. In his view, it should be appreciated more strongly. He also highlighted the problems of centralised support services. The more central this area becomes, the more attention must be paid to the IT side and also to the accounting side. The Auditor General marked the duties of local authorities in the committee. In his view, too, it is a matter which falls within the competence of the state and which lies within the competence of the local authorities. The state must define this more precisely. He also stated that the different style of reports in ministries makes it difficult to compare ministries, and he also touched on the same subject that went through the hall: that it was difficult to compare the budget and the subsequent summary report. There were no questions about the work of the National Audit Office. All they wanted to know was that since there was a tendency to sprawl in Estonia during the construction boom, the National Audit Office has monitored this separately, whether detailed plans and permits have been checked. But I didn't think it was an obligatory matter. Finally, the Commission took decisions, all of which were consensual. No one had any objections. The decisions were such as to put the draft on the agenda on 18 October, which is today, to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for the tabling of amendments at 6 p.m. on 24 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U160	Thank you. Now, please, questions! Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You touched on the issue of police fines, and you also said that these figures arrived at your desk. Can you name the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U162	Yes, I can. I thought this morning I'd print them out just in case somebody asked me. So I printed myself out and I can tell. A specific question, but I can really answer. When it came to the Commission, the waitress did not know the answer to us immediately, but yesterday we received this information. And here you can see that in 2010, the requirements have been written out, and I'm rounding them up, and they're right here, but I'm going to say a thousand-to-one, 8822000 kroons. There have been more receipts in 2010: EEK 8945000. Why more? In previous years, if you want historical data, I have had these data since 2005 and have always been smaller. It can be assumed that last year there were fines in previous years, otherwise it would not make sense that the receipts would be higher than the claims that have been written out. This file, if necessary, can also be sent specifically to you. From 2005 to today, it contains all the claims and receipts that have been issued.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U163	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U164	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Perhaps my question is outside the Commission's debate, but one way or another it concerns the current issue. When comparing the report of the National Audit Office and the Minister of Finance, there is the impression that the Estonian Minister of Finance has not dealt with the overview of the Auditor General in his report. They're like opponents on the one hand, but they're kind of silent opponents on the other. I would like to ask: were the questions raised by the Auditor General seriously discussed in the Commission? After all, raising them is forward-looking. Or have they just been taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U165	The Auditor General did not ask questions. The Auditor General passed on his understanding of the functioning of the state, the state's assets and all related matters. He basically didn't put up any questions, rather informed us about the problems. And now, when you ask whether the Commission itself had separate questions, I tried to give a relatively thorough overview of what the Commission was interested in. To the Minister, we had questions from Eurostat and from rail stock. However, with regard to the report by the Auditor General, we did not have any specific questions, apart from this urban sprawl. Yeah, there really were no more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U166	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U167	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We now have a common understanding that the country is generally doing well. According to external characteristics, everything is all right in Estonia. Our Prime Minister writes reprimanding letters to the other Prime Ministers of Europe, which is a very bold and good step from him, and I fully endorse it, which is a very good initiative. But at the same time, grassroots citizens are relatively nervous. Did the debate on the consolidated annual report also give rise to a bit of a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on broader issues? In the context of the same financial year, in which country is the ligadi-logadi, there have been such contrasts that the upper strata are nice, but the lower strata are not nice? Or did you not have this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U168	Thank you, good questioner! We had a pretty good discussion. I gave you an overview of the questions raised. I have just looked at the discussion in 2010 on the 2009 report. Then, by the way, no questions came from the hall, either to the main rapporteur or to the co-rapporteur. So you see, the time has gone on in a year, there is a new Riigikogu and there are considerably more questions. There were also questions in the committee when the Minister spoke. But what we were saying wasn't like you, Mr. Riisalu, saying that everything was a slut-logade. On the contrary, it seemed that everything was relatively normal, at least that's what I understood. All the questions raised, I'm not going to repeat them here, just got an answer. The debate was constructive and all decisions were taken by consensus, as I have already said. Maybe that'll show you something.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U169	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U170	Thank you. I have a question for the waitress. This bookkeeping document is undoubtedly very interesting, and probably there are more people who are interested in it than we are 101. Where should a perfectly ordinary Estonian person get a version that is understandable to him and read to anyone who wishes to?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U171	Thank you, Mr. Brush! I do not believe that you are better than your voters or that your voters are worse than you are. The easiest way to get it is at www.riigikogu.ee. From there it is possible to obtain all the material relating to this draft from the link to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And I believe that what you understand will also be understood by your constituents. I don't think there's a need for any special secret weapon or password. I don't think your constituents understand that in any way. I think they understand exactly as you do.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U172	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U173	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The report shows that the loan burden of local governments is higher than that of the state. Doesn't that concern you? Has it not led you to think that the municipalities may not be able to serve the loan in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U174	I would still be within the scope of the current issue. It's like we've opened a box that's starting to give off personal opinions. Maybe later I'll come to the remote and give you my personal opinion. However, right now we are sticking to the Commission's issues. You will also understand that we do not need to open this Pandora box right now. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U175	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U176	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In the old days, when certain issues, important things, were discussed in the large hall, health problems were reached when the time had passed and most people left the hall. I have a question: did the Committee on Monetary Affairs have this or did some focused attention also be given to certain health issues, not only in such a way that a number is planned, that number has been met and everything is fine? For example, was the dental situation discussed? The fact that this benefit is not paid to adults, why it is not paid and whether it will still be possible to compensate for it in the future. Were health issues discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U177	Thank you, Mr Vasilyev. You have a good quality to double-check things. Last time I noticed you were talking for 20 minutes about something that you could have summed up in two minutes. But that's my personal opinion. I would tell you that it was felt that the opposition and the coalition were relatively well informed during the meeting of the Commission about the document that was put on our tables. No specific medical topic was raised. It can be expected that people had already understood very clearly what this document reflected, what expenses were incurred, and how the accountants had reflected them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-18_U178	Thank you. We are now ending this item. The meeting's over. The second question of Inara Luigas is fixed, it will remain tomorrow, as will the rest of the procedure. Thank you very much. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
