ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. There are no drafts and no referrals. Let's go to the messages. Firstly, on Wednesday, 23 November, the following members of the government will take part in Question Time: Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus, Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler and Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Secondly, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Seventy-nine comms have been registered, 22 missing. Let's go to today's agenda. To clarify the agenda, I declare that, on today's fifth agenda item, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, will be presented on behalf of the initiators by Urve Palo, Member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U2	Let us begin the debate on today's agenda items. On Thursday last week, we failed to read the first 89 draft laws on amendments to university law, university of applied sciences law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. We will continue to ask questions to the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas. Please, Urmas Glass, take your position! And now I'm going to be more specific: Rannar Vasiliev had another question, did you take it back? Got it. Then Maret Maripuu's second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U3	Thank you. Good waitress! Perhaps you will once again point out what is the common part reached by the Commission and what are the main differences of opinion that the political groups have come up with during this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U4	Thank you very much. At the last meeting of the Commission, where we decided to send the draft in question to the large Chamber and proposed that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at ten working days, of course the political groups also presented their views during the negotiations. They will certainly protect them during the negotiations today. But the common ground for all is that the higher education system needs to be reformed. There is certainly something to be reorganized, the question is essentially what needs to be reorganized. The national training order, as the current system requires restructuring, has been understood by all colleagues. The performance agreements to be concluded are, in principle, a good idea, but it is absolutely necessary to see the relevant model agreement or pilot agreement first. It has to be on the table while we go on with the bill. The subject of the debate was also the pace at which to move forward with the draft. The parties of the coalition, the Reform Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Association expressed their views and this is reflected in the result of the vote that we are finishing our first reading today. It is proposed that the draft should definitely be moved forward. The opposition parties agreed that they could interrupt, that the Ministry could come up with a new draft, taking into account all the comments that had been made, and that there was no rush. This proposal was not supported. The Group of the Reform Party made its opinion very clear, which needs to be supplemented in the draft. These sections are a clearer formulation of private equity, certainly a cumulative calculation of the curriculum instead of a semester-based calculation, plus the setting of a quality criterion. With these views, Minister Aaviksoo agreed in principle and now we expect a new wording from the Ministry. In the end, in my opinion, the idea that the bill definitely needs to be moved forward remained. Work must be done as quickly and effectively as possible, but at the same time as thoroughly as it must.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U5	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U6	One of the successful reforms, but not very complicated, was the separation of sobering houses from the detention chambers. We've been discussing this for over six months. We are now going to reform 400-year-old Estonian higher education and we will do so in less than 70 days. Tell me, is our spirit so powerful that in 70 days, we'll be doing 400 years of tradition?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U7	We are working here as a Parliament, and the intermediate time between first and second readings is intended for everyone to be able to table their amendments. The Commission must certainly discuss these proposals very thoroughly, work on them, and I believe that we will do our best. Certainly also the Ministry of Education and Research wants to do its best to ensure that the work is thorough and decent. I don't want to be forced on a paradigm who's running anywhere fast. You could quote the wise Confucius of the Orient, who has said that you can run very quickly, but if you run in the wrong direction, it will be a pity instead of a good thing. But once again, we are all trying to do our best, both in the Commission and in this Chamber, to make this draft a good product.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U8	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U9	In Estonia, as we know, there have been a relatively large number of crazy and stupid higher education institutions throughout history, so-called basement schools that have done more or less without teaching on the sale of diplomas. We used to have 50.60 higher education, now it's under 30. How many colleges do you think are normal so we don't sell diplomas instead of teaching?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U10	Thank you very much. That's a good question, but I'm not subject to this provocation so I'll start naming how many higher education institutions should be in Estonia. However, I can quote my former rector, Peter Tulviste, who said that I clearly remember that Europe's rule of thumb is one million people and one university. In Estonia, public universities are right several times more. It is still important to have the quality that comes from the university, our young people must receive competitive, high-quality higher education and cope with increasing competition on a global scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U11	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! In one of your recent responses, there was a gross assessment that the opposition was not only opposed to the continuation of the readings, but claimed that the Ministry could come up with a new law. I don't remember the basis for this argument. I remember what was said about the need to extend the deadline for amendments. And only after it seemed that the author might not agree to this was the proposal to vote the draft, but certainly not for everything to start from scratch or for a new draft to be tabled. Did I get something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U13	As a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Jaak Allik mentioned that the government could take account of all these comments and come up with a completely new draft. That was Jaak Allik's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U14	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! It seems more and more that this law will not enter into force next year. But, as we know, next year's state budget has allocated money to carry out the reform of higher education. I ask you this: if there is no reform of higher education, could this money go to the salaries of teachers in general education schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U16	Thank you very much. This issue was not discussed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U17	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U18	Since Maymets, the Estonian high school has lived under the slogan 'Not a day without reform, not a week without thorough reform! '. It seems to me that the most radical reform would be to live without reform for a few days or a few years it would be a real reform. But okay. That's the question. Is there a single idea behind this, this, this, this, this, this, this reform? And if it is, why is it hidden so deep?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U19	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U20	The idea of the reform has quite clearly been summarised in an explanatory statement with such a sentence that all motivated and advanced students need to have free higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U21	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. My question is that the initiator of the law has foreseen that some of this law will apply on 1 September 2012. When will the law have to be adopted in the Riigikogu at the latest, according to your imagination, so that it can become operational from 1 September 2012?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U22	There is indeed a place of very serious thinking. That is how the provisions that must apply on 1 September 2012 relate to the autonomy of universities and the organisation of their work. Universities will have to establish the admission conditions for the next academic year by the end of November. And it must be done according to the law in force, not the supposed law. This is something I have emphasised earlier in this Chamber and also said to the public that this issue needs to be negotiated more seriously. I honestly admit that I do not share the position of the Minister of Education, who said here on Thursday that universities still work on the basis of public training orders that they have received just before the academic year, and I mean the current academic year. But it shouldn't be a model to work for. This problem, which you have pointed out, is a conflict that the legislator needs to think through and resolve very clearly. That is a very correct question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U23	Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, the chairman of the committee! What is the Commission's view: do you think it is right that the law will apply in September next year, or should it be postponed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U25	I pointed out that, in the negotiations that took place in the Commission, the proposals sounded to postpone everything, to review it once again. However, this movement and entry into force on the timeline have not been fixed and agreed in the Commission because we are doing so in the course of the revision of the amendments. There are no formal proposals on the table at the moment. We've been exchanging ideas, but we haven't agreed on anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U26	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U27	Thank you. Honourable performer! Since you have only deviated from the Commission's work and answered questions in substance, I have such a question. I also ask for a substantive answer to this. Is it not the aim of the Reform Party to postpone and torpedo this reform and make its own law? One simple reason: that in Estonia today, free education on behalf of the IRL would give very many votes to your partner party in the elections? Isn't that the main reason you're stalling like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U28	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U29	Mr. Lenk, thank you. I do not think that I have been distracted from the Commission's discussions, but I have certainly remained within these limits and have referred to the views of both my group and the other groups that emerged in the Commission during the negotiations. But your question will certainly be answered by the rapporteur on behalf of the group in his speech when the time comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U30	Honourable waitress! I am interested in the position of the rectors of the Estonian state universities on this issue. When should this reform take effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U31	Of course, we do not have state universities, there are public universities. But these fine rectors have sent a letter to the Commission, and this letter has also moved on to the Minister of Education, that the Council of Rectors, which brings together the rectors of public universities, will support the reform of higher education and the adoption of draft 89, assuming that the implementation of the reform will be delayed by one year. It should be taken into account that at the latest in November this year, universities will approve the admission conditions for the next academic year, on the basis of which students will make their national examination choices. That's the first point in that letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U32	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you so much for your answer. We're going to negotiate. First, I would like to ask for a speech chair, Mr Luige, representative of the Reform Party Group. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party considers that the reform of higher education should be implemented as soon as possible and already in 2013. In doing this reform, we have set ourselves three main objectives. First, to improve the quality of higher education; second, to improve access to higher education so that all capable young people can acquire higher education, and thirdly, to ensure a better output for the labour market. Five factors, such as effective funding, world-class faculty, good infrastructure, motivated students and effective cooperation with the private sector, play a very important role in pursuing these three objectives. A few words from the content of today's bill. It aims to provide higher education at the expense of the taxpayer to all students who study at public universities who go to study in Estonian, exceed a certain threshold and pass full-scale studies in each semester. Those young people who do not complete this education, for example, receive 29 European credits, are obliged to pay for their education in one credit. According to the draft, the national training order will be replaced by performance contracts, state budget and non-state budget study places will be abolished and student places will be created. If the student does not exceed the threshold or starts studying under the so-called "normal" system, he or she will be able to complete his or her higher education by paying for it, studying as an extraterrestrial. However, there is a clause that says that it will not then be granted student status and benefits. It is a well-rounded framework that has been given to us. There are many places in all of this that the Reform Party Group believes should be improved in cooperation with you, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can adopt this law as soon as possible. Some of the key points are as follows: Firstly, there must certainly be no restriction on the inclusion of private capital in higher education. An interesting example was given here that if a student has the right to take his money to a tavern, he must retain the right to take his money to a higher education institution if he so wishes. In short, private capital must not be restricted. The second is the 30 ECTS, a European credit requirement, which is set in full. We believe that this should be alleviated. In particular, in order to improve quality, which is one of our main objectives, this quantitative rate should also be accompanied by a quality requirement in the form of an average score. Therefore, in order to improve quality, this 100% requirement could perhaps be reduced slightly and a quality criterion in the form of an average score should be added. Next thing you know, a threshold-based reception. We need to clarify what happens to state examinations in this case. If universities are to be accepted on the basis of uniform threshold exams, the idea of state exams disappears. In that case, we need to review the system of state examinations provided for by the PGS, which has not, in fact, come into force under the new regime. A few words about the fact that, as I said, the national training order is replaced by performance contracts. We have received the first draft of the performance agreements; it certainly still needs to be thoroughly reviewed and analysed, what are the advantages and disadvantages there and how to make it better. Further, public and private schools must, in the opinion of the Reform Party, be treated on as equal a basis as possible. Private schools should also have the possibility to apply for performance contracts in certain curricula. This possibility should not be restricted to them. As far as private capital is concerned, we believe that legal persons must be able to finance certain curricula and contribute to them further. I know that today's draft allows this in some way, but we believe that it must be formulated more clearly and that this message must also be said louder, because our aim is to have even more resources in the field of higher education. Of course, an important aspect of progress with the draft is the development of a new scholarship system and a new need-based system of study grants. These two documents, or these two points in one document, would certainly like to see them first, discuss them in detail and then go in parallel with them. It is a matter of fact whether we can enforce these two at exactly the same time - we have to face reality, because with financial opportunities, the situation is as it is. To conclude, I am pleased that we have gone a long way, met all possible parties, starting with students and students, and ending with rectors of both private and public schools and also rectors of applied universities, the National Audit Office, the Confederation of Employers and so on. We have received many interesting ideas and ideas in this way, some of which I introduced to you today. Together, we need to find ways forward. I very much hope that, in constructive cooperation with you, we will be able to move forward with these points of concern that have been raised in a nice way and as good a draft as possible has been adopted. I am also pleased to welcome the students upstairs on the balcony, and it is good that they are actively involved in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U34	Thank you very much. Please, as representative of Liisa-Ly Pakosta Isamaa and Res Publica Union!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U35	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U36	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U37	Thank you. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, I would like to thank you. I would like to thank all those people who have the free reform of higher education here at all. Students demanded free higher education years ago. We thank you for bringing this to your attention, and we will meet this demand! When the IRL interrogated Estonian people, the need for free higher education was highlighted very much, mainly by parents, but also by upper secondary school students who saw that their way to higher education could be prevented by excessively high tuition fees. We thank you for bringing this to your attention, and we will honour your promise! I thank my good colleagues from the Riigikogu on behalf of the IRL, because the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu has been perfect. All the interest groups have been heard and it has been very clear that we have common interests. We are a party that listens, counts and works for a better result. Our Minister has also stressed that all constructive proposals are welcome; people are always entitled to present them. The right is for those people who say that this bill can be improved. We will make it as good as anything can be done on the basis of our common thinking and analysis, as well as international experience. It is also right for all those who say that this draft does not deal with all issues relating to higher education. A thousand times right! Discussions have revealed that the quality of higher education would be improved by, for example, more effective assistance to preschoolers. This is not what the current bill is dealing with. The main issues of the Free Higher Education Bill are still solving social concerns. It is understandable that this makes our good colleagues social democrats nervous because of such a resonant resonance. The Estonian student needs the most free reform of higher education and the launch of social support in Europe. The Estonian student in Europe needs it most. Let us consider the facts as to why this is the case. In Estonia, according to the 2009 and 2010 data, young people from lower-income families are underrepresented in higher education based on the 'Eurostudent IV' survey. Only 3% of all students come from lower-educated parents and hence lower-income families. In Finland, for example, it is 10%. At the same time, it cannot be said that it is the rich children in Estonia who are studying at the university to constitute the overwhelming majority. Children from wealthier families form more or less the same proportion of the student population as wealthier families in society. However, the share of poorer families in society is higher than the share of students from poorer families in the total student population. Thus, children in poorer families are under-represented among students. The chances of poorer families are just less than they should be. But we can be proud in the Riigikogu because we are dealing with this subject under the leadership of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Only a few countries have managed to achieve a higher education system that is socially equitable and where all social groups are equally involved. We have that goal. However, I would stress, just in case, that we must not lose what is good for us. We are among the good people of Europe, along with the same Finland, in that we have over a third of the students - this is from families over the average, where Dad holds a blue collar job. We have blue-collar fathers who even own the European record when they send their children to high school, such young people make up 48% of all students. In France, for example, this figure is below 19%. It is true that Estonia stands out for well-educated mothers who have had a baby with a blue-collar father. The statistics are sometimes charmingly accurate. But in the end, we are still in this group of countries where access to higher education for children from poorer families is a problem. From a social point of view, it is worth stressing that our students have been amazingly fruitful. We are ranked second in Europe among 33 countries by the fact that 23% of our students have children under 6 years of age or children. Only Norway, with 26%, has seen more frequent visits by cranes among the students. In addition, there are all Nordic countries and Portugal in a European steering group with more than one in eight students. Young people work hard on their own. Of all students with children, 66% of all students in Estonia have started their studies after some break. In Denmark, for example, there are only 11% of them. We also manage across Europe that 81% of all Estonian students over 30 years of age have a child. In the Czech Republic and Spain, for example, only 30%. To my colleague Gräzini, I would like to stress that higher education has been awarded in Estonia for 379 years, and most of that time has been paid for children's studies by parents. Currently, the average monthly income of a student living with his parents in Estonia is 350 euros, of which only 19% comes from parents and 10% from the public sector. The average income of a student living separately from the parents is 569 euros, but the percentage of parental allowance is essentially the same as 18%. Let's talk about money and the economy a little bit more. We are actually solving the problems facing the Estonian economy with this bill. By 2020, there will be 41 million new jobs in the European Union, where people with higher education are needed. Only 10 million new jobs need people with lower levels of education. We are solving economic issues! It is noteworthy, however, that Estonia stands out in a comparative study by the fact that our part-time students already devote more time to their studies than those students who do not work at all. This bill does not deal with the prohibition of work. On the contrary, we are a country in Europe that encourages students to work alongside learning. We are not imposing any temporal or tax-technical restrictions on this. It is also noteworthy that there are only 23% of students in Estonia who are either dissatisfied or very dissatisfied with their personal use of time. And this share is just as high in the Nordic countries, such as Finland, which offer free higher education and have a calm attitude towards the work of students. By the way, in Portugal and Italy, the proportion of such grumpy students is 39% and 37% respectively. Greece has failed to answer this question at all. What else have we noticed about the economies of these countries? In Estonia, there is a national problem with the employment of students. Indeed, we are among the 33 countries in Europe, the leading country in terms of the Gini coefficient. The Gini coefficient is an indicator of the inequality in the distribution of income in society, the higher the Gini coefficient, the more unequal the distribution of income. In 2009, according to Statistics Estonia, the Gini coefficient in Estonia was 0.31. At the same time, it was much higher among the students at 0.42. And, as has been said, this is the highest figure in Europe at all. In the Netherlands, for example, the Gin coefficient for students' incomes is only 0.15. "Eurostudent IV" analysts estimate that the potential source of inequality is the income structure of students. In addition to Estonia, the Gini coefficient is also high in the Czech Republic. Together with the Czech Republic, we are the leading countries in terms of the proportion of the students' income they earn. This explains our record inequalities in student incomes, according to the researchers. In cat-size letters, it should be stressed that in all countries the share of public support is less than a quarter of students' income. We conclude that the implementation of student social benefits, its earlier introduction at the moment, is currently enshrined in the Coalition Agreement by 2015, and is essential for the whole reform of higher education. This is one of the most important issues for this reform at all. Let's set an example for others! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U38	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Aadu Black Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard about these speeches and we have well learned that there is no doubt about the need for reform of higher education in this Chamber. Who then does not know that people with good education are one of the most important resources for both a large country and a small country in particular? Estonia's success story, good education, even during the annexation period, has been a guarantee of our progress, and without an average educated population in Europe, Estonia's statehood would not be possible at all. However, the current situation in the higher education landscape is weeping. A lot of troubles have been accounted for. The prestige of higher education in Estonian society has never been as low as it is now. It's about high school sera that students don't go to class, it's about class. But that name also means content. It is also said that due to the right-wing populist government of Ansip, there is stagnation in higher education. There are very high expectations in society relating to this bill, much of which cannot be met by this law. However, this is not the worst of the reforms, nor does the university reform have to be limited to just one law, they have to come more. The press has also indicated that demagoguery and pressure methods have been used to push the bill through. And to the point that if the law does not come along, the rectors or universities will pay the fine or the money back as a result of the bad arrangements that have been put in place, it would seem to have been spent incorrectly. It can also be said that the logo of our Parliament could be 'Quod liicet Iovi, non liicet bovi' or 'What is promised to Jupiter, not allowed to bull'. If the opposition were to come to the Riigikogu so unfinished, it would have been said that they could not work. But that probably doesn't apply to the coalition. Old wisdom says the devil is in the details, and the bill contains a number of unsolved details. A number of things are later laid down in regulations and, despite some additional material, their content is unclear. I recall the example of Columbus' ship. Once upon a time, a caravan was invented, which, thanks to a good sailing setting, could also be driven by the wind, by zigzags. We have the same possibility of regulations and implementing decisions. It is said that there will be free higher education, but if it happens that a little more people will have to pay for their education than before, then it will also be perfectly normal. In the future, historians will also have to evaluate each Parliament. I have a suspicion that our membership may be over-entitled by Parliament, about how it was done, and then we'll see what comes out. Each reform needs the means to launch. If there are few, it will do even if it could be a very good reform, full of all the people who adopted this reform. This reform will also change the face of society. The Estonian proverb says: not everyone gets to the berryland; some must remain in pasture. It's catastrophic for young people who have abilities to stay outside the university, but Momma-Papa's wallet is a bit empty. The reform as a whole does not consist of a single law. Scholarships, social guarantees, a system of benefits must also come. However, if they do not come, or if they come later, a little later or very much later, then reform is like a double-legged cow. A man has enough of two legs and he even runs with them, but a cow with two legs doesn't even walk. Can I have more time just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U40	You want more time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U41	It is up to the opposition to see that great enthusiasm is not really made an imitation of the reform. We propose to the Government Union that the reform be carried out in full. This means that the reform must be accompanied by a system of scholarship and support. You are so masterful in this: if we put forward a bill, you say there is no money. But you always find the money! You have 'other and undetermined' sources, it's perfectly legitimate and suitable for you. Pick up the 'other and indefinite' sources and lower the remaining two feet on the cow! The Committee on Culture has discussed the matter in a very thorough, meaningful and hard-working manner, both the opposition and the coalition. We also acknowledge the work of the Ministry. A number of these questions, which we all asked the Minister here together, were answered, which gives cause for moderate optimism. True, the opposition has also repeatedly been deceived by optimism, but there is no result. However, in this case, a number of solutions have moved closer. As a result of all this, the Centre Party Group is of the opinion that we will continue to work on this draft and the new moment of looking the truth into the eyes will come when the second reading of the draft comes. If everything that is promised really moves towards life and not death, then perhaps we can do well with this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U42	Thank you very much. Now please, Mr Ossinovski, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U43	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party will certainly support the objective of making our higher education system more efficient, of improving the quality of teaching and learning and of making higher education available to all capable motivated young people. Surely we are not nervous about this principle, as Liisa Pakosta tried to accuse us. However, it is clear that, in its current form, with the help of draft 89, these objectives will certainly not be achieved. Let's start with the uniform. The draft we are currently discussing was submitted to the Riigikogu in an extremely urgent manner. It was only in April that the Minister started working, and already in mid-July the draft was in the government's coordination circle. If anyone then had the opportunity to read this text, I'm sure you noticed that in their form and performance, it reminded me of a very sad and funny undertaking in the spring when IRL rushed to save homeowners. Already in September, the bill reached the Riigikogu. In the meantime, there was a summer and, of course, neither the universities nor the representatives of the students could be involved in the preparation of the draft. The result is a text that is not accepted by some or others. Both recognise the need for reform, but are in principle opposed to all the key points in this draft. Following the progress of the draft procedure and the Minister's speeches, we have come to the conclusion that the content of the reform and the accompanying rhetoric from free higher education are not so much based on a real desire to improve the functioning of the sphere of vital importance to this society, which would require much deeper analysis and more consensual decision-making, rather than the need to quickly justify the pre-election commitment of the IRL. Of course, all politicians from the IRL, who are able to calculate the amount of Minister Aaviksoo, will understand that truly free higher education will require much more budget money than the Minister of Finance has planned to allocate between 2012 and 2015. That is why the Minister of Education was given the task of drawing up a draft, which could seemingly be about free higher education, but not much more money for it. And now the contents. It is quite obvious that if the reform takes place in its current form, the proportion of students who have to pay for their studies will not decrease, but rather increase. In addition, higher education is becoming even more inaccessible to young people from worse conditions and rural areas. In particular, the number of curricula and students studying in social and humanitarian subjects is decreasing, which is why even more talented young people are likely to move to countries where higher education is indeed free of charge. Much of this has already been written in the press and it has been done not by politicians but by higher education leaders and lecturers. Currently, 50% of students study free of charge, who pass the curriculum's standard load in the semester 75 to 100 percent, because there are very many of them who have to work due to the lack of student benefits. According to the bill, only students who collect only 25% of credits per semester with a 100% load can study free of charge. Even according to the most optimistic calculations of the Ministry of Education itself, the percentage of students studying 100% would increase to 60%. Certainly, students are also able to obtain 30 credits per semester. It doesn't know how much. However, this is only in a situation where a young person can focus 100% on teaching and does not have to work to live. Unfortunately, this is not the case with 56% of Estonian students working. It is therefore very cynical of the Minister to say that the union of student societies is opposed to this regulation simply because they simply want to launder and pass through less credits. In order for the 30 credits requirement to be effective, it is necessary to set up an adequate system of study grants. This is also acknowledged by the Minister, but we have been waiting since August for a new draft of study grants, so far it has not come. According to the Coalition Agreement, changes to the current scheme of study grants are only foreseen in 2015. And even if the money is found from the 2013 budget, Minister Aaviksoo has spoken about applying for just EUR 16 million instead of the current EUR 8 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U44	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U45	Yeah, three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U46	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U47	Today, 15% of students who are more successful in learning receive a €70 grant in the middle. The Ministry plans to increase the study grants to EUR 139. Simple arithmetic logic says that if the allowance doubles and the amount of money doubles, only 15% of students will still receive the allowance, with those whose household income does not exceed the minimum wage per family member on an ad hoc basis. It is quite clear that such a system of education grants will not solve any problems. There is not enough money for stimulating scholarships, but a student from a poor family who receives EUR 139 will still have to work to live. This means that he cannot complete the curriculum with 100% load and must pay for his studies. If, according to the current procedure, such a young person can stay free of charge and make a living at work, then the new regime will have to pay. That is what we mean when we say that reform increases educational stratification. And unfortunately, it seems to me that Liisa Pakosta has not yet understood. And these are the poorest 15% who will receive student support. What about the remaining third of students who are not going to receive support, but still have to work to support themselves? Therefore, some basic requirement for success in the whole reform is genuinely needs-based subsidies which would be significantly higher than EUR 139 and, more importantly, the circle of recipients would be greater than 15%. However, this would amount to two or three times the amount requested by the Minister, which he has not yet been allowed. But yes, only then can we really talk about free higher education. As a result, SDE supports the proposals made by the Association of Estonian Student Unions and other social partners. The opinion of specialists should be taken into account when reforming each system. We support the proposal of the Council of Rectors to set up a working group whose task is to draw up, on the basis of a clear concept, the necessary underlying documents for the reform of higher education by 1 March next year at the latest. And most importantly, if no money is found for adequate and genuinely need-based study grants, then it is essential to waive the requirement to complete 100% of the curriculum. Ultimately, most of the amendments proposed by the social partners mean that very large additional resources will be devoted to higher education. It is no secret that the main pain in our higher education system is under-funding. In 2008, Estonia spent 4500 euros on higher education per student, with an average figure of 9300 euros in the EU, or nearly twice as high. Since 2008, public funding has decreased by a further 14%. Yes, the proposed draft proposes an additional EUR 33 million for higher education in 2015, but according to the calculations of the Ministry of Education, this will only compensate for the reduction in private funding for higher education today. Thus, in the end, there will be no more money for higher education. Before proceeding further on this draft, a fundamental matter must be decided: whether or not our country is prepared to channel much more resources into higher education in order to make higher education a truly free education. Looking at this bill, it's clear not. In this case, please be honest that the current bill will only guarantee free learning during the first semester and in the next semester only for those who have the money from home to study without going to work. In any case, lying to the public on such an important matter is morally unacceptable and irresponsible. SDE proposes to reject the draft 89 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. As the Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to reject the draft 89 at first reading, we will put it to the vote. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the motion of the Social Democratic Party Group to reject 89 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The commission's proposal was to close the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 6 December at 6 p.m. First reading of bill 89 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U49	We will go to the next item: Second reading of the draft law 104 on the protection of ambient air initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Mr Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair, would you like to give a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U50	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Committee on the Environment discussed the preparation of the second reading of the draft law 104 at its meeting on 11 November. Meelis Münt, Head of Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, was present. Three amendments were received, made by Commission Member Jaanus Tamkivi. In conclusion, on the basis of these proposals, the amendments to the text of the second reading of the draft supplement the provisions governing the assessment of the potential of CO2 capture and transport from large combustion plants and stored underground. In particular, all combustion plants with a nominal electrical power of 300 MW or more and which use fossil fuels must be able to install a carbon capture unit in the future. To this end, it is necessary to assess whether the application of the technology concerned is appropriate or not. The draft initially did not require this possibility for new large combustion plants, but limited itself to existing large combustion plants. The Commission discussed and unanimously supported these amendments. In conclusion, it was decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the draft 104 be stopped and, when the second reading is completed, to propose to the Riigikogu board that the third reading be placed on the plenary agenda on Tuesday, 6 December and then to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U51	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U52	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a question. Here § 3810 states sanctions for ship-to-ship discharges and for the prohibited storage of CO2 in the sea area. Is the penalty of EUR 32000 for a legal person not too low if it commits such an infringement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U53	Thank you, Mr Chef, for this question. Just as fines always depend on the legal person. For some it's a lot of money, for some it's small.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U54	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Jaanus Tamkivi! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We are going to examine the amendments. Amendment 1 is made by Riigikogu member Jaanus Tamkivi. The Steering Committee proposes that this be fully taken into account. The second amendment is also from Mr Tamkivi; the commission proposes that this be fully taken into account. The third amendment is from Mr Tamkivi; the commission proposes that this be taken fully into account. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U55	We are going to the third item on today's agenda: the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the Prosecutor's Office initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! Good Riigikogu! If you paraphrase my youth's literary hero, Agu Sihvka, you might say that if you tell everyone honestly what is going on with this bill, you should start by saying that on 18 October, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu received a letter from the Monetary Affairs Committee, who explained that they are being dealt with by the bill number 100, which provides for the amendment of a number of laws, including the amendment of the law of the Prosecutor's Office. And since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has so far been the lead committee on the law of the prosecutor's office, the Committee on Monetary Affairs asked our committee to consider the initiation of this draft and also sent us the necessary materials. On 25 October the Commission discussed the initiation of this draft and on 7 November we reached the point where we initiated it. By the time of the meeting of the Commission on 15 November, the draft had already passed through this Riigikogu hall and we discussed sending it to first reading. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are already discussing this. As can be seen from the explanatory memorandum, it is true that the draft is intended to supplement § 22 of the Prosecutor's Act, which provides that the remuneration of prosecutors is to be determined in accordance with the principles of determining the remuneration of judges, with the monthly salary rate of the State Attorney General not exceeding that referred to in § 2 (1) of the Law on salaries of senior civil servants, the index of the highest rate of pay referred to in paragraph 2 and the product of the coefficient 0,85. These changes are due to the need to keep prosecutors' salaries in proportion to the salaries of judges and other senior civil servants, in order to ensure a balance between the various branches of power. Although, in itself, the prosecutors and the prosecutor's office are not a constitutional institution in our country, they represent executive power, they are, however, a very important force. Let us put it this way: according to European practice, they are viewed in many ways almost as equal as judges. Their actions are also very important, and that is why the plan is to bring the state's attorney general's salary to a level that would be correlated with that of a judge of the same level. The salary coefficient of the President of the Supreme Court is 1.0 and the salary coefficient of the Supreme Court judge is 0.85. That could then be the maximum wage coefficient for the State Attorney General. Under the current law on the salaries of senior civil servants, this figure is less than a piece of land, but it is considered right, as I said, to take these salaries into proportion. At the moment, the public prosecutors' salary includes, in many ways, extra fees. So, in itself, this amendment, if it were to come into force as a law in 2013, should not lead to any very large increase in wages, but the level would still be close to the level of the judges' salary. As I said, the salary coefficient of the State Attorney General would amount to the salary coefficient of a member of the Supreme Court, but it could also be lower, depending on what the Government of the Republic would determine more precisely. The government representative gave a positive opinion on the draft at the meeting of the Commission, and he was actually born from there, which is to be denied here. Ultimately, the Commission decided to come to the first reading of the Chamber today with this draft and to propose that the first reading be concluded. That is what we decided by consensus, and we also agreed that the deadline for submitting amendments could be 23 November at 18:00. If colleagues consider it necessary to provide clarifications and amendments to the draft, this is possible. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also carried out small repairs in the original text, which came to us as a dowry from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We are convinced that the current wording is much clearer and more unambiguous. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U57	Thank you. Now the questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, In the final part of the second paragraph of the explanatory memorandum, 'The objective of the draft', there are two sentences which I am now reading out: 'In contrast, 2012 will result in a situation where the level of salaries of prosecutors ends where the judges start. In essence, it would, for example, be impossible to find candidates for the future State Attorney General among the judiciary. ' Is it so bad that there is no judge in Estonia with a sense of mission who would come to such a high position without this change? Is everything measured with money in this area, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U59	Thank you. That's a good question! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also discussed this in this way at its meeting, and we came to the conclusion that pay is certainly one of the main components, which creates the possibility of getting there, we call it the market or something else, the best brains to work. Of course, that can't be the only motive to go to the DA's office. However, in this way, the explanatory memorandum also mentioned that in such a case, judges who are in office for life, including those who are in lower court for example, may have an interest in applying for the position of high level prosecutor, knowing that the salary there is somewhat higher than today, although this profession may not be a lifetime. But pay is really only one factor, and I agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U60	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As we know, Estonia's legal practice, rather the practice of judging, is characterised by such a relatively sad number that 97% of cases end in settlement procedures. Hence my question to you personally, as well as to you and to the representative of the Commission: was there any discussion about whether this wage-sharing of prosecutors with the salaries of judges (not that I have anything against the high pay of prosecutors) would lead to a withdrawal from certain principles of the rule of law? Perhaps we are even more encouraging that the prosecutor's office plays a role in some way as a court?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U62	That is quite the angle we did not discuss this issue with regard to this draft. However, as far as the activities of prosecutors are concerned, the activities of prosecutors in the management of the entire investigation are of particular importance. The second aspect, which has been very important for a few years, is that we have a so-called competing criminal trial and that it is the role of prosecutors that is very important there. As far as the large number of settlement procedures are concerned, as legislators, we have indeed given opportunities and levers to do so. The judicial or criminal cases are certainly different, and there is no difference here, at least it should not depend on the wishes of only one party, for example, the prosecutor. It is always possible to consider the circumstances of how far to go in the proceedings, whether or not to accept the agreement, by designing a representative, a lawyer and a defence tactic on the other side. In some ways, it certainly deserves special attention, but there are indeed many cases that are in themselves relatively simple or obviously black and white and should not really be dealt with according to the general procedure. I do not think that a change in the salary number would make a big difference in this regard. And also, many things must still be confirmed by the court, including all that the prosecutor has done in the settlement procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U63	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U64	Thank you very much. Honourable performer! Formally, the amendments to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office should enter into force on 1 January 2013, but essentially on the day of entry into force of the new salaries of all civil servants. The current situation is not very promising with regard to its entry into force. Does this mean that there will be this substantive rise, in other words, if these amendments do not enter into force on 1 January 2013, then the changes to the law of the prosecutor's office will also automatically proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U65	Yes, however, it is currently planned to amend the law of the Prosecutor's Office and it states that it will enter into force on 1 January 2013. After all, this change in the salaries of senior civil servants is also being postponed for a year. So in this sense, a good questioner, without being now a fortune teller, cannot predict what could happen next year, for example. But the law can certainly be changed. In principle, this bill can also be amended once it has become a law. But it's all such a theoretical approach. At present, however, account has been taken of the fact that the amendment to the Law on salaries of senior civil servants will apply in 2013 and, in this case, the law on the prosecutor's office. To be honest, I cannot rule out one or the other option on my own right now. But now it is really planned to start next year by making a new state budget for the next year, planning opportunities for real coverage of all these figures, if that is possible. I hope it is!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U66	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U67	Thank you. Dear waitress, One part of the remuneration system is certainly also holidays. Today we are talking about prosecutors who are in the same system as judges, which makes perfect sense. It is known that judges have extremely long leave, which reduces the capacity of courts to work. Could you please tell me if the prosecutors have extended leave and how their leave is paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U68	All of this is regulated quite precisely by the law of the prosecutor's office. The prosecutors' leave is 49 calendar days according to the current law, 42 calendar days for prosecutors' assistants. At the same time, prosecutors are also given on-call time when they must be available for unforeseen or urgent service during off-duty periods. I myself had to consider on-call time in my time as a prosecutor, but the laws of that time did not take into account any working time in this regard. This is the additions approved by the previous Riigikogu, i.e. the additions, i.e. the additions, I am thinking about on-call time, but the regulation of holiday is already in force since 2005. There are some tables on remuneration, but I do not rule out that there may be much more unity here after the Riigikogu has bitten a nut called the new Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U69	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Will the salary and actual income of any judge or prosecutor decrease according to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U71	Thank you, questioner! My answer is no. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U72	No further questions. Thank you very much, Väino Linde! Any requests for negotiation? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. I will set the deadline for tabling 126 amendments on 23 November at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U73	We will go to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill 134 of Amendment of Section 5 of the VAT Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to present a speech to Mr Erki Noole, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending § 5 of the VAT Act was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 14 November. The purpose of the draft is to maintain the temporary reduced VAT refund limit for sales with VAT drawback (tax free). The reasons for initiating the procedure are as follows: According to Paragraph 5 (2) (2) of the VAT Act, the transfer of goods to a natural person in a non-Community country is considered to be for the export of goods for which a refund of VAT can be claimed if the sale price of the goods transferred, including VAT, exceeds EUR 128. For the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2011, a reduced VAT refund limit of EUR 38,35 applies on a temporary basis for sales with a VAT refund pursuant to Paragraph 46 (16) of the VAT Act. The reduced tax free limit has had a positive impact on the Estonian tourism sector. The practice of other countries is also in favour of a lower threshold. For example, Finland has a threshold of EUR 40, Latvia has a threshold of EUR 42 and Lithuania has a threshold of EUR 58. The Riigikogu presented to the Committee on Monetary Affairs a proposal to maintain the VAT refund limit reduced by VAT refund for sale by the Estonian Merchants Association by sending a letter to the Commission on 3 November. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, was also invited to the debate on the draft. The Commission took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 22 November, it was a consensual decision, to propose that the first reading should be closed, it was also a consensual decision, and to propose a deadline for the submission of amendments. a 23 November at 6 p.m. That too was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U75	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, This is a very good draft, which should certainly be supported, but perhaps you can explain how the Riigikogu was able to get into the procedure of the Riigikogu, the explanatory statement of which has not been drawn up in accordance with the technical requirements of the standard?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, What do you mean, you don't meet the technical requirements? As I recall in the committee, this did not come as a speech that the draft is perhaps not technically correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U78	Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Can you tell me what the positive impact of reducing the tax free limit in the last two years has been on the Estonian tourism sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U80	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U81	This question was also discussed at the committee meeting and, frankly, there is no specific data either at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or at the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the Traders' Association and the Hotel Association have given positive examples. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, also said that when they visited Ida-Virumaa, it was confirmed that its effect in Narva had been noticeable precisely when selling goods to residents of third countries, especially the Russian Federation. This legislative amendment would certainly not have a negative impact on the state budget. This has been confirmed by representatives of both ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U82	Thank you. Dear waitress, I will explain my first question. According to our standard protocol, the explanatory statement must be divided into parts. The first is the introduction and purpose of the draft, the second is the content and comparative analysis of the draft, the third is the chronology of the drafts and compliance with European Union law, the fourth is the impact and implementation costs of the law, and the fifth is the entry into force of the law. The previous bill we discussed, and the next one to be discussed, has been made in accordance with the norm rules. It's unfortunately not. Why didn't you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U83	As regards the breakdown of the draft explanatory memorandum, yes, the explanatory notes of the drafts submitted by both ministries, political groups and committees must comply with the Riigikogu normic rules. However, according to paragraph 54 of the Riigikogu normnika norm, in the case of a minor bill and in the case of a draft law amending or repealing a law, the explanatory statement may be amended or abandoned in relation to the general requirements of the norm technical rule. That's my answer to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U84	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U85	Thank you. Dear waitress, How will the volume of the bill be measured? For example, what is the impact on the state budget? Can it be said that all the drafts that have an impact on the state budget for next year by a million euros are of small size?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U86	It certainly cannot be taken to mean that the volume of the draft will depend on the amount of the draft, i.e. EUR 1 million in one year, EUR 10 million or EUR 100 million in the second year. The Riigikogu should not go on such a slippery path with its legislative amendments. As far as your question is concerned, in the technical sense, we will only make a change by setting EUR 38 instead of EUR 38.35. The VAT refund limit will only change by EUR 35 cents. If you compare, for example, EUR 1 million and EUR 35 cents, this is a very large difference and, to some extent, it really is just a technical change of the norm.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U87	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U88	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, this has a negative impact on budgetary receipts of approximately EUR 1 million. However, you claim that the Tax and Customs Board considers that the reduced threshold does not have a significant impact on the administrative burden. If, for example, the average VAT refund was EUR 100, this means 10000 additional transactions per year. Do the initiators not consider 10000 transactions to be a significant increase in administrative burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U89	First of all, I would like to make it clear that this is a temporary period. It has lasted two years by the end of this year. From this point of view, the administrative burden does not change that it is currently a temporary limit imposed by law; it is now simply maintained. The administrative burden for the Estonian Tax and Customs Board will not increase significantly with this legislative amendment, as this has been the case for the last two years. Why was it made temporary for two years? During this period, the Ministry of Finance wanted to analyse the impact of the cap on the state budget. The Committee on Finance also asked whether regulation could have a financial negative effect, but the answer of the Ministry of Finance was that the impact was rather positive, especially from the perspective of the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U90	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U91	Thank you very much. Good speaker! I'm going to ask you a slightly different question. I find it relatively difficult to imagine a person who, when setting his travel destinations, decides in favour of one country or another because there is such or different VAT refund limits. Maybe these people are. But did you consider in the Commission that if, for example, in Lithuania, this amount is EUR 58 and in Latvia, 42 maybe not make it even smaller, but increase it to EUR 45?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U92	No, there was no proposal to increase. Instead, it was proposed that we may have to reduce further, i.e. it will affect our tourism sector even more, but the Minister's opinion was that such a change should not have a significant impact. As far as your question is concerned, I cannot imagine that, once this amendment enters into force, the interest of small businesses in using the possibilities of selling VAT refunds in border areas, such as South-East Estonia and Narva, could be greatly increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U93	No further questions for you. Thank you, Erki Arrow! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 134 amendments on 23 November at 18:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U94	We will go to the fifth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please report to the speech chair Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U95	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I have very good news for you. This bill, which has now been initiated by the Social Democrats, is certainly such a draft of the opposition, which the coalition can support once and for all. I'll explain why. The coalition's partners are two political parties. One of them has confirmed that he really wants to contribute to reducing people's home expenses, while the other has said that he wants to do everything to ensure that the business climate in Estonia is favourable to our entrepreneurs. And this bill, initiated by the Social Democrats, will help to fulfil both of these promises. On 1 April 2010, the electricity market was opened in Estonia for large customers with an annual consumption of more than 2 GWh. Domestic consumers and small businesses will be obliged to purchase electricity on the stock market from 1 January 2013. In April of this year, Elering announced that the annual average price of Nord Pool Spot Estonia's price area should be 46.29 euros per MWh. Currently, the price of electricity to households and small businesses in Estonia is 32 euros per MWh. If we make a simple adjustment, we will see that electricity in the open market will cost on average 45% more. In order to mitigate the increase in electricity prices resulting from the opening up of the electricity market to domestic and commercial consumers and thus encourage the production and deployment of renewable energy sources, the Social Democrats proposed a draft law to change the rates of excise duties on electricity. It should also be said that the impact of the change on the state budget is estimated at EUR 26,7 million per year. Thus, by 2013 it will be possible to start preparing today. The draft proposal is to reduce the excise duty on electricity in Estonia from 1 January 2013 to the minimum rates established by the European Union, i.e. EUR 1 per MWh for domestic customers and EUR 0,5 for commercial customers. Electricity produced from renewable sources would be completely exempted from the excise duty on electricity. The current rate of excise duty on electricity in Estonia is 4.47 euros per MWh, which is, as we see after a simple adjustment, 4.5 times higher for household customers than the minimum standard is prescribed, and more than eight times higher for business users. By the way, as far as I know, only five of the 27 Member States of the European Union, including Estonia, use higher rates of electricity excise duties than promised. From 1 August of this year, according to the price list of Eesti Energia, domestic consumers will pay 10,91 euro cents for the "Home 1" electricity package in 1 kWh. Of this, the basic tariff amounts to EUR 3,23 cents. Thus, 30% of the total electricity bill is the basic tariff, which will be affected by exchange prices as of 1 January 2013. If the stock exchange price starts to be 45% higher on average than the current price, the consumer's electricity bills will increase by 16% on average. So from 1 January 2013, it is expected that the electricity bills of people that arrive to them each month, either in a mailbox or in an e-mail box, will be at least 16% higher. If we were to use the minimum tariffs on electricity excise duty allowed in the European Union, we would have the opportunity to reduce electricity bills for both people and business consumers by 4%. This represents a large part of the total future increase in electricity bills. It has to be said that in Latvia and Lithuania, whose products our exporters have to deal with very much outside Estonia, the excise duty on electricity is minimal. If that were the case, this would help our companies to reduce their export prices. When it comes to renewable energy, Estonia's energy sector is one of the most polluting in Europe. In order to reduce this impact, a long-term target must be set for the full transition to renewable energy. It can happen in one generation, but it has to start today. European leaders have decided that by 2050 environmentally harmful CO2 emissions will have to decrease by 80 to 95%. This means the introduction of carbon-free production capacities. It would be wise for Estonia to contribute to the development of new environments and our national wealth, oil shale sustainable technologies, and to support diffuse energy production, where energy is produced as close to the consumer as possible. In 2010, Elering estimates that the share of renewable energy in Estonia accounted for almost 10% of final electricity consumption, which is estimated to be 11.4% this year. So we still have room for improvement. Exemption from excise duty on electricity produced from renewable sources would increase the competitiveness of environmentally friendly forms of electricity production and, I say again, save our oil shale. In my opinion, we should look at the long-term use of our national wealth, for many generations. We should think about what oil shale could do in the future, and not now drive it into the oven. By the way, similar tax incentives are used for renewable energy sources in ten EU countries, including Finland and Lithuania. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. I hope that you will have the opportunity to show, in support of this bill, how much you care about your constituents and how seriously you take your election promises! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U96	Thank you very much for the waitress. Please, Aivar Sõerd, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'd like to pull your enthusiasm back a little bit. If your bill were to come into force as a law, it would reduce the state budget not by EUR 26, but by EUR 29 million, and it would be more than twice the amount of the car tax you advocated. My question is this: if you come with a proposal to reduce the revenue from the state budget, what money do you intend to finance your enormous social programmes, which you will describe in your latest propaganda paper, for example, the Socialist? Is it on the agenda again for your old arsenal to start borrowing into the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U98	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U99	Thank you for your question. I said it would reduce the proceeds by EUR 26.7 million, which is nearly EUR 27 million. You say 29 million. Well, we'll see what the truth is at the end of next year, but the difference is actually very small. As for where that money comes from, it's what you're looking for. You guys are really busy looking for money to keep your election promises. This could, after all, be below your election promises, with lower home costs. It was only when we hurriedly approved the abolition of land tax, nor was it clear where the money would come from to cover it, but you promised to find it. We'll give you all the time in a year, even a little more. If you make the budget for next year, I believe it will be very easy for you to either rearrange the lines or find more revenue. I trust you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U100	Thank you. Good waitress! I am trying to understand the logic of this proposal from the point of view of the social democrats. In fact, we all know that the wealthier society is, the more electricity it consumes. Similarly, the wealthier a household, the more electricity it consumes. You may also know that in wealthier families, dryers, floor heating, saunas, etc. Now you have a proposal to lower the price of electricity. I understand that it is the most prosperous people who will benefit from it, but the amount received by the state budget will be reduced by nearly 500 million kroons in old money, which could be used for social projects, which are as if close to your heart. Where's the logic in your proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U101	If we look at electricity consumption, then on the one hand, of course, electricity is more used in large houses with many luminaires. At the same time, these houses may not be electrified, and this means that such expensive housing may not be very electricity-intensive. The richer a person, the more he thinks about how it would be built in a more energy-efficient way when he builds a house. He uses LED lamps and so on. But it takes money, these solutions are more expensive. In fact, the cost of electricity still affects families that can do worse, families that are child-rich, where it is necessary to have a washing machine and a dishwasher, if it exists all the time. So I don't quite agree with your logic. If we look at how much electricity is consumed in Estonia per family, on average per consumer, it has been 382 euros per year. If prices are now rising by 16%, we are talking about an additional cost of EUR 60 per year, in fact with very modest electricity consumption. Because if we take that, on average, the price of electricity is about 500 kroons per month in old Estonian money, it shows that on average, people do not use electricity for heating purposes, but use domestic equipment. And the bigger the family, the more power they need.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U102	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I have the same question as Mrs Aivar: what is the cost of this EUR 26.7 million? Is that why the Social Democrats today did not support the draft free higher education that they consider it necessary to keep 15 euros in each family's pocket and not free higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U104	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U105	Like I said, I trust you. You're very strong accountants. You'll find that money if you want it. You've shown so far that if you want to make the election promises, you'll find the money. This could also be one of your election promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U106	Thank you. I, too, sadly have to admit that the Social Democrats have moved from a clear world view platform to a much more middle party sector, where populism consecrates all the steps in order to achieve this very modest austerity, they are prepared to sacrifice very high budget revenues. This is a tax with a very broad tax base and this money is important to the country. I think the expression 'you're looking for money' will certainly do much better in this hall than Marika Tuusi in your mouth. But I am trying to bring the matter to the world view and I therefore ask: do the Social Democrats, in principle, consider the taxation of environmental pollution to be bad, or do you want to replace it with another tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U107	If we're in the government, believe me, we'll find the money. And I really hope you're as capable as I am. On the contrary, as far as environmental sustainability is concerned, we believe that the use of our national pride, oil shale resources, should be subject to much higher taxation. We do not consider it right that Estonia's main energy source is currently largely used for heating furnaces. In fact, because we are not taxing oil shale fairly, the price of electricity is lower than the surrounding stock exchange prices, but it is changing. When we talk about the price of electricity, as I said, very little electricity is consumed for heating, most electricity is still used to make appliances, machines, luminaires work. Surely the Social Democrats are in favour of more talk in Estonia about saving as the main solution. We would like to see the state channel more resources into energy saving in different ways. But this is a separate issue; there are many of these opportunities, including that Estonia itself would allocate more money for this and more European money could bring home.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U108	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U109	Thank you. I have an idea and a question on the part of two of my colleagues in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. First of all, I do not know that the Social Democrats are terribly promoting borrowing. However, we will reduce our reserves and probably also have to borrow the budget for next year under the leadership of the Reform Party. But is my point, a good waitress, reasonable to you when I say that the same money that goes missing from the state budget with a bill, whether it is 26.7 or 29 million euros, is the same money that people will have? I think it is very hypocritical to say that it is a great deal of money for the state, but the amount of money for people is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U110	Thank you, good questioner! That's right! Of course, this money will remain in the hands of consumers and they will then have the opportunity to use it in other ways in Estonia, so on the other hand, it will be returned to the state as taxes as VAT, etc. Not to mention that people's well-being is increasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U111	Thank you. Please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U112	Thank you. Good waitress! You've been a member of the Government of the Republic, and you probably know very well that this type of income addition at Stenbock's house isn't practiced that ministers decide that we're going to increase some amount of revenue. In your report, you said that 'you will find cover for this bill and you will be good accountants'. From this I conclude that the Social Democrats do not have it and cannot find the source of the cover. I, a young member of the Riigikogu, have understood so much that, for each draft, the source of cover that will cover the loss of revenue must be mentioned. I am trying to help you: is this a car tax, is it a real estate tax or a progressive income tax that you have promoted? Something should be written on this bill, though. I don't think the phrase 'you find the cover' is a little short.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U113	You know, déjà vu gets a feeling. I remember that when we dealt with the draft law on land tax, one side of the hall was silent, and the other side was talking about how we could adopt the bill if we didn't know where the money would come from to compensate for it in the state budget. Then you said very convincingly from here at the speaker's office that money will be found if there is a good purpose. So I repeat once again: the aim of reducing the high price increase for consumers in 2013 and, among other things, of contributing to the fulfilment of your electoral promises is so good that the necessary money must be found. And there will be time for this for a whole year, as I have already said, this does not concern the budget for next year. With regard to next year's budget, we really need to show the sources of coverage today. But there's plenty of time to look for. But as far as accounting skills are concerned, I respect accountants very much, but I'd still like to hire a financial manager first.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U114	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Since you're the one who pulled the populist cart, I'm gonna keep asking. We have discussed the procedure of this bill in the Committee on Monetary Affairs a few times, but we have never addressed one issue, and I will ask you again, just in case. Speaking of reducing home expenses, you brought a parallel to the land tax exemption. What is your assessment: which one will have a greater impact on the human purse, on the exemption of land or on the small reduction of excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U116	Thank you, good questioner, for a very good question. I forgot to tell you, now you've reminded me. As far as the land tax is concerned, we know that the majority of the Estonian residents, or 70% to 80%, live in apartments. It's statistics. And we know how much land tax is currently available for apartments: depending on the size and area of the apartment, 10 to 15 euros per year. When we are talking about electricity excise, as I said, even in the case of very modest electricity consumption, about 500 kroons per month in old money, the savings for a person are 15 euros per year. If there is a bigger family, electricity consumption will be higher and savings will also be higher. This is particularly true for families with child-rich children. So the answer to your question is that people will gain more from the entry into force of our bill than from the land tax exemption.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U117	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U118	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good speaker! You said the coalition was working well with accountants. Accounting is known to be a documenting of economic transactions and it is difficult to do so well. I've done some of that work myself, but I've never found any money. Please describe how the accountant finds the money!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U119	That's what this is about, you have a lot of good accountants, but you don't have any financial managers. Call us in, we'll find those tools.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U120	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U121	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Urve! I was always looking forward to you reaching a progressive income tax or some other source of cover. But since you didn't make it, I remembered how the Social Democrats fled the government very quickly in 2009, when it was necessary to cut back. And now you're standing there on the remote and you're saying in a condescending tone that 'you will find, you will watch, you will do'. That 'we're just making some crazy proposals that we ourselves can't tell where to finance, but you'll find it.' Have the Social Democrats completely lost faith that you could ever be part of the government again?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U122	First of all, I apologize if my tone seems condescending! I'm just having fun taking this process, or doing work doesn't always have to be sad and angry. I'd rather be in a good mood than believe it's not a sin! I wish you were, too, and I think there are a lot of smiles here, so fun is contagious. But as far as leaving the government is concerned, maybe we can correct this old misunderstanding. We didn't leave, we got suspended from the government. And the reason was that we saw in different ways how revenue could be increased. After all, we began cutting under the direction of the Minister for Finance, and at a time when the Social Democrats were in the government, the most extensive cuts were made. The Social Democrats have always said that we are in favour of a responsible budget and are not in favour of borrowing money, for example, to cover running costs. We have indeed had a different understanding of raising the income side. We were also not in favour of an increase in VAT to cover revenue. We have had a different view on this than the IRL and the Reform Party. That's life!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U123	Thank you. Please, Tavi Cloth, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U124	Thank you. Good waitress! On the basis of your own data, the savings for the average household will be EUR 1.25 per month, while the loss of society as a whole will be nearly EUR 30 million. I believe these orders of magnitude speak for themselves. However, when you answered my question, you said that you had some sort of alternative plan to start taxing oil shale and thereby increasing the price of electricity, which perhaps opens up a little bit of the real foundations. But my question is, do you consider it fundamentally right to tax oil shale, or electricity produced in Estonia, and not to tax the electricity we should buy in? The electricity excise duty is known to apply both to electricity produced in Estonia and to purchased electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U125	There are now a number of good things, starting with the fact that you shared one person's annual profit for one month and at the same time talked about the cost of a whole year of society. This is the height of demagogy, I commend you for that, Tavi! That was a good comparison! I'm afraid there's nothing to suggest, so let him stay. But as far as electricity prices are concerned, as I said, electricity will increase from 2013 because we will enter the open electricity market and the price will rise regardless of how we tax oil shale here in Estonia. The electricity market will then be open and we will no longer be an oasis on our own. We consumers are going to buy from someone who offers more favourable prices. In the same way, Eesti Energia considers that if prices are higher on the market and it has the possibility to sell at a higher price, it will do so and even if it sells outside, these buyers will be Finnish, Latvian or whatever region's customers. Especially in this light, I say that it would make sense to value our oil shale more, which would also leave more money in the Estonian state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U126	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Mr Kõivas took the question out of my mouth, but your answer put it back there. Oil shale is a very important raw material in our chemical industry, which accounts for a large part of our exports. Oil is made from oil, which heats tens of thousands of households across Estonia. The electricity currently available is one of the cheapest and heat is produced in parallel, which heats Narva, supplies 5.5% of the Estonian population. Please specify whether this simply sounded like a slogan in the debate, or if you have a fundamental offer to raise taxes, tax oil shale even more than it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U128	Now we've reached an electric excise from oil shale. However, it is known that European Union strategies envisage making productions that lead to environmental pollution and CO2 more expensive. In the future, in order to produce electricity from oil shale, we must start buying quotas from the European Union, which are very expensive. I would like to say with this in mind that Estonia should already take its steps towards achieving a higher share of renewable energy sources. They are taxed low or not at all in the European Union, and ultimately they are more favourable to consumers. For example, there is already a danger that when a new oil shale block is completed in Narva, on which the cornerstone was laid in spring, this block will be standing in the future. We are putting EUR 640 million in the game to build it, but it stands because we cannot offer a competitive price in an open market, the cost of production is high because of quotas in particular. It needs to be viewed in a complex way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U129	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U130	Thank you. Dear waitress, Since your draft explanatory statement coincides literally with the explanatory statement of the Centre Party draft, I have heard the statements in this debate, as there is no way to manage the planned increase in electricity prices by 2013. I understand that the representatives of the Reform Party are saying that the current level of excise duty has been included in the budget and must not form a hole. But is it right for me to assume that if the basic electricity price increases by 40% in 2013 on the basis of modest estimates, then there will be much more VAT in the state budget, which would largely cover the reduction in excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U131	Basically, that logic is correct. If the price of electricity increases, the value added tax will be higher. Whether or not this will directly cover the less recovery now, but it will certainly mitigate its effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U132	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U133	Thank you. I'd like some more clarification. We're on a slippery road where everyone slides back and forth. You said that people would save 15 euros a year in the middle and that the land tax would also be 15 euros in the middle for small apartments. Are there only people living in Estonia who have a small apartment, or do we also have people who have little bigger housing, such as a cottage or something like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U134	You asked about the benefits of who would benefit from one change or another. I said that since a very small part of Estonian people and apartment buildings still live in private homes, the number of beneficiaries, when comparing the two draft laws, is either not different or is in favour of the draft legislation on electric excise duties. As I said, this piece of work, that savings are 15 euros, is based on a household with very low electricity consumption. If there is more electricity consumption, like in large private homes, then the benefits are greater. In this sense, they are comparable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U135	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U136	Thanks again! Yesterday, the President of the European Parliament quite highly appreciated the financial policy pursued by the current coalition in this very chair. Why are you making a destructive assessment of the financial leaders working in the coalition? How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U137	I'm not making a destructive assessment, you're giving it! You confirm you can't find the money anywhere. If you really can't find us, call for help! We do have people with financial management skills. I hope you do, but you're trying to make it clear to me that you're not. You have the ball.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U138	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U139	I want to pick up some history. You said you left the government because you didn't like raising VAT. However, a few months later, you began to enjoy the sales tax in Tallinn, which you and your brothers-in-arms introduced from the Centre Party, which is also local VAT. It does apply to one third of the Estonian population, however, so far. It costs every resident of Tallinn, both working and retired, around 1000 kroons a year. We are not talking about a euro. A thousand crowns a year for every person! About a month ago, we ran into each other on a Forum show where I reminded you of that. Then you said this to me: "You're lying again, Valdo! We didn't impose a sales tax. ' Do you want to repeat today that I am lying when I say that you and the Central Party imposed a sales tax in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U140	Valdo, I'm really sorry you had this on you, and I sincerely apologize to you! Indeed, in that context I was wrong. We were in the government at the time. But it wasn't a conscious mistake. That's what I did later, and I realized my mistake, but I couldn't fix it by sending it. Let's do this old debt right now. But again we reached Tallinn. As far as our principles are concerned, we are opposed to indirect taxes rising in Estonia. They are already much higher than on average in the European Union. And indirect taxes are also paid by pensioners and people who have many children and who may have no income at all. They pay these taxes when they go to the store to buy bread and milk. The sales tax in Tallinn, as far as I know, does not directly concern the price of consumer goods. But, frankly, I'm not very familiar with Tallinn, so I'd rather not be dealing with Tallinn right now, I can slip. I'm not even a councilman.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U141	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Your report revealed that only five of the 27 countries of the European Union use a higher rate of excise duty. Why do you think these other countries are not raising this rate? Do they think that people themselves would consume this money or that they would get it back through VAT, or that entrepreneurs would create new jobs, that the competitiveness of businesses would be preserved and that money would come into the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U143	You answered the question yourself. Yes, all of this, and also the fact that access to electricity in the European Union is one of the fundamental rights of consumers, one of the people. It will be very closely monitored to ensure that energy prices are affordable for people. All the more so since no effective measures have been taken in our country to help families who are struggling to pay their bills. If someone now refers to income support, it is so small that it is not worth talking about right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U144	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U145	Thank you. You mentioned the new oil shale block to be built. Let it be said that this is an investment in energy security based on domestic raw materials. This block uses 50% oil shale and 50% wood. That is the possibility of using wood, which is the security investment, which must ensure protection against a high carbon price policy. Now the questions. Could you see any other power plant operating on domestic raw materials and providing energy security? And the second question: did I understand correctly what you were saying that oil shale as a resource could be taxed higher and more evenly in all sectors?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U146	As for this new oil shale block, which is going to work, yes, 50% on chipped wood and 50% on oil shale, we still have to buy the quota, because oil shale goes into that boiler too. And yet the question is whether this block will be competitive on the market in the future, or whether we will put EUR 640 million in it, but it will stand for most of the time. My position, which the other Social Democrats are in favour of, is that we must invest very strongly in the development of various renewable energy sources in Estonia and in the construction of the corresponding objects. It is these diffuse sources all over Estonia that are a sensible solution. Secondly, we need to invest more strongly in energy saving, starting with houses being more energy efficient, and ending with the fact that we have smart grids, for example, etc. There are many of these possibilities. If you look at the possibilities for funding, in the next 10 to 20 years, if I am not wrong now, I have left this paper on the second table with very large amounts of money for the development of renewable energy sources and for the energy-saving of houses. The European Union is expected to be of great help in this regard. This is what the Head of the Development Fund said in his presentation here in the Riigikogu, who stressed that the economy of the future is a organic economy and everything to do with it, and that there is also a lot of money in this sphere. When it comes to oil shale taxation, I think we should do everything we can to save our national wealth. Today we may not know what can be done with it for one or two generations, but once we've run this furnace, there's nothing left to do. Everything that is reasonable must be put into use to avoid the useless use of oil shale.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U147	Thank you. Let me remind you that one question can be asked at a time. Please, Arto Aas, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U148	Thank you. The rapporteur probably agrees with me that, in the long term, energy prices are not expected to fall, and energy savings are the best solution. Now, what message would a reduction in excise duty give? In my opinion, the opposite message is that saving is not important, but consume as much as possible. At the same time, you yourself spoke about the insulation of apartment buildings and possible subsidies from the European Union in this area. I totally agree! We should use them and, at the same time, we know that all European Union funds generally also require self-financing. Wouldn't it make sense that we use the same money from electricity excise consumers who consume more, it costs more to help cooperatives renovate apartment buildings, save energy? That would be just like road construction.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U149	I should have written down... Now I remember! Why do we want to reduce electric excises in the first place, if energy is getting more expensive anyway? That's what this is about: energy is really getting expensive. I have given an example that the figures that people will receive in 2013 will increase by at least 16% and reducing electricity excise duty would ease this increase by quite a lot, 4%, according to our bill. But that's not enough. The measure we have proposed is a first step towards preparing for the opening of the electricity market. There are many more measures, and one of them is indeed to invest more in energy efficiency. If, for example, energy prices increase, I don't know, let's say 5%, a person might be forced to use 5% less energy. Here comes the conscious cost of money: I'm gonna replace my lamps, I'm gonna heat my house, and so on. There are many ways in which the state can help its people, but this is a separate issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U150	Too many questions! I wonder where I'm gonna start. There were so many questions that I forgot my first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U151	Answer what you remember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U152	Thank you. Good questioners, one question at a time. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U153	Urve, I've been listening to your rather insane talk about accountants, which became a very quick talk about financial managers you've got to kick. I remembered the children's literature classic Astrid Lindgren, who has a character like Karlsson on the roof. Karlsson reportedly requested a list of the children of the offspring of the descendants of the House. The janitor didn't give me that list. Let's try, maybe you'll do better. Now, tell me directly from the remote, who do you have these capable financial figures who will find the money immediately?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U154	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U155	I've had this Karlsson thing messed up again. I have this book unread, my daughter still doesn't care about Karlsson, we're reading Pipit now. And since this question was a little confusing, I'd rather not answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U156	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Point 1: I am in favour of this bill with two hands, all the more so since in September the Riigikogu was in the proceedings of the Centre Party for an analogous draft. Point 2: I see natural partners in the social democrats and I would like to live in peace with you. But in the area where I have been chosen, the work of 6,000 people depends on how much oil shale costs and whether new boilers are being built, energy is being developed or not. And all over Estonia, 150,000 people are dependent on the price of the oil shale, who buy the warm room. Is it a socialist principle that there is a need for additional taxation of oil shale and there is no need to build anything in the power plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U157	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U158	The Socialist principle is that oil shale mining should be restricted to 15 million tonnes a year, for example. And the principle position is also that oil shale must be worth as much as possible, i.e. taken out of this stone as much as possible. Therefore, the current trend that several private operators as well as Eesti Energia want to expand oil shale oil production in Estonia, which also provides jobs, is certainly a more sensible direction than simply driving the oil shale furnace to produce electricity. But I would point out once again that in one year it will not be possible to shut down any power plants, even in two years. These processes will happen anyway, but over tens of years, and the market will have to adapt accordingly. The labour market must also adapt. But I repeat: our position is that oil shale must be worth as much as possible, to be taken out of it. More money would be left in the country from the sale of the final product.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U159	Thank you. First of all, when it comes to the nice idea of burning chopped wood with oil shale, it is certainly not the idea or content of using domestic raw materials more in electricity production. Rather, the aim is that the addition of chipping wood to oil shale can be used to pay renewable energy fees, so that oil shale that otherwise becomes uncompetitive in terms of price is still competitive on the market. But I have a question about the issue of VAT and Tallinn sales tax. I know that you do not currently have the results of specific calculations available, but how do you feel which will affect the Estonian people more: the 1% sales tax in Tallinn or the 2% tax increase in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U160	There is nothing to talk about here, of course, with a 2% increase in VAT over Estonia, which has increased our electricity bills by 2%. And now, if you really want to, a few more words about Tallinn. If the state cut the income base of one of the hard municipalities, but did not reduce the liabilities, what do the municipalities have left over? They cannot, in the way of the state, simply whistle at the performance of their duties, even the decisions of the Supreme Court do not want to be taken into account. This is how they try to do the best they can to fulfill their obligations and find the money. So you can understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U161	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U162	Thank you. After all, energy is a valuable and expensive commodity that must be used in the most efficient way. Consequently, do you know how many percent of energy savings must be achieved to get support for renovation of an apartment building from KredEx, for example? Thanks to this energy saving, people's bills should go down a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U163	As I emphasised, this is certainly a very important measure. But today we're not talking about energy saving. If we have at least 16% electricity prices in the future, making up for it with energy savings But, of course, in addition to lowering the electricity excise duty, the energy efficiency of houses must also be actively addressed, that is clear. But this is another subject that you could talk about for a long time, but not today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U164	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U165	Urve, I'm sorry you lost my question! But if you don't read the books, answer me from the remote: who are the capable socialist financial leaders we can count on? Maybe the press will put those names right behind us, and we can all address them collectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U166	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U167	Juku-Kalle, it looks like you've only read 'Karlsson' if you don't appreciate the other books at all, and you think that's all you should read. I've read other books besides Pippi, but Karlsson is really unread. But we can talk about this later at the cafeteria. I do not want to make direct advertising here right now, but we have a lot of capable people who can look at the state budget not only in the eyes of the accountant, so that the cost-benefits are balanced, but also in the eyes of the financial manager: how to set the budget lines so that the state and people can benefit as much as possible, and how to generate more revenue in the long term. It's the job of financial managers. I think if you ask any of the CEOs, you'll find out that's how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U168	Thank you. Urve, there has been a long debate here on what is the source of the entire draft. But I want to ask you this way. We are in a situation where we know that the price of electricity to small consumers will rise significantly in a year's time, but for large consumers it has already increased very much. We also know that a large consumer and a well-managed person are able to invest in energy savings, but an average-manable and average-starting person is then Majasok or Karlsson on the roof, usually not able to do so. Karlsson from the roof at all, Majasok may have a chance if he has savings. Do you know of a single measure that the government has launched so that our companies are competitive with more expensive electricity and that our people can manage normally? The standard of living of the people will certainly not rise at the same rate as energy prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U169	Thank you, good questioner! I don't know. Indeed, there is KredEx, from which housing associations can ask for loans and loan guarantees, to a small extent the state provides aid through European funds. But we also know that the share of KredEx covered by this loan is so small that in fact housing associations are in trouble and, in general, this measure is used very little. How do you go with such a proposal to people with very low incomes? There are a lot of pensioners living in apartment buildings and they do not agree that the cooperative will take on some kind of large loan. There's no way they can cover it. Very good and working solutions that will really help people and businesses, I do not know. If you do, please waste your second question on answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U170	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I hear the best thing is renewable energy. Do you know how much of the electricity currently consumed in Estonia is renewable energy and how much of it could ever grow under Estonian conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U172	Thank you. Didn't I say earlier, I did say that, at present, about 10% of our electricity is produced by renewable energy sources? This is Elering's 2010 data. By the end of this year, this figure should be 11%. When Estlink 2 is completed in 2014, the share of wind energy or any renewable sources may increase at least six times. I know that with renewable energy sources, it is a thing that they definitely need alternatives. If, for example, there is no wind or there is no sun in Estonia, it is the same as the sun in Estonia, then it is necessary to have alternatives. But yes, from 2014 onwards, renewable energy could grow significantly if we have Estlink 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U173	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I listened intently to this debate, and I learned that you do not support the new block that is being built to ensure energy security. But I would also like to know how the draft you tabled affects the competitiveness of electricity coming from the east in our internal market.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U175	After all, we are going to a joint power exchange between the Baltic and Nordic countries and, accordingly, we are starting to have a price for electricity, not trading with Russia. As regards the construction of the oil shale plant, the Committee on Economic Affairs had a parliamentary hearing on oil shale last Thursday. Sandor Liive, the head of Eesti Energia, then admitted that the cornerstone of the construction of the new oil shale plant that took place in spring was premature in a situation where we currently do not even know how it will be financed. The whole plan should have been better worked out, given at least a year to rethink the project. Now the cornerstone is laid, but we do not know where the necessary money comes from. Will it be paid for by the Estonian consumer? The money from the sale of the CO2 quota is unlikely to be available. The money for selling the CO2 quota is also the money of the Estonian taxpayer; it can also be invested elsewhere than in the construction of oil shale boiler. There are a lot of question marks to the point that once this station is ready and starts to compete in the open market, it may not be competitive because such production is very expensive because it pollutes the environment. I would very much like Estonia to have a well-thought-out energy policy. In the field of energy policy, decisions are so weighty and so expensive that there is no way that we will start to push at the end of the year, and if it turns out in a year's time that we failed or went too expensive and the method is not working, then we will leave the matter at the end of the day and take a new approach. Everything has to be well thought out, but I don't see the plan, and that's very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U176	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U177	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, First of all, from this initial discussion around today's draft. While in previous years there has been a rather joke about the fact that right-wing parties know where money is coming from, and the Social Democrats are the ones who can spend, surprisingly, this sounded like your official statement on quite a number of occasions today, that is what it is now. Aren't the Social Democrats a serious party who should also be responsible for where the money comes from? But to the question! A simple question: to what extent does your protected draft affect the price of electricity paid by the final consumer? How many percent could it change?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U178	Please, Mr Kõiv, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U179	I've talked about it many times, but I can do it again. But first of all, I will say in a reply that you have been misled, my good colleague. If you believe that the Social Democrats can spend and you can find money, I think you've been misguided. But it happens. As far as consumer benefits are concerned, I have said this several times and I will say this again: the consumer's benefits on the electricity bill are 4%. The average consumer's electricity bill will decrease by 4% if this bill becomes a law from 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U180	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, waitress, for your last answer. I now ask the simple question: will you allow us not to be misled in the future by saying that all you want to do is to spend and others to find money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U181	No further questions. Thank you very much, my colleague Urve Palo. I now call for a presentation by Mr Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U182	We have not misled you. I think you're misleading yourself. But that's what happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U183	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity at its meeting on 14 November. Eiki Nestor, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group, presented the draft as a representative of the initiator, and Marek Uusküla, Head of Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in the meeting. The author explained the objectives of the draft proposal, which is to ease the transition from 2013 to an open electricity market for domestic and business customers and to encourage the wider deployment of electricity from renewable sources. To this end, the aim is to reduce the excise duty on electricity to a minimum level established by the European Union: domestic consumers have EUR 1 and business customers have EUR 0.5, electricity produced from renewable sources is completely exempted from the excise duty on electricity. The Government of the Republic had sent its opinion on the draft. The government does not support the exemption on the grounds that subsidies are granted under the Electricity Market Act in order to introduce renewable sources, make the energy sector more efficient and ensure adequate domestic security of supply. And these subsidies have a higher share in electricity prices than excise duty in their volume. Rather, renewable energy subsidies are too large, it is the government's position. Moreover, the increase in electricity prices when the market opens is not due to taxation. This is due to other factors, and what our price will be like when the market opens up depends on Nordic countries' interest in providing electricity for sale on our stock exchange, as well as Russia's interest in selling electricity on our stock exchange, the volume of the entire electricity market here, the capacity of the transmission network connections and many other factors. The price of CO2 in the greenhouse gas emissions trading system in the European Union is also decisive. The Government therefore does not support the draft and, at the end of its non-supporting letter, will also assess that, according to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, the planned amendments to the draft would lead to a reduction in electricity excise duties of approximately EUR 29 million in 2013. The Commission discussed this draft on the day of 14 November, when we had many questions on the agenda. I guess I'm not exaggerating when I say that the interest in the bill wasn't very high. I had a great opportunity to ask two questions, and one question came from the socialists themselves. I asked the question that if the author gives examples that the electricity excise rates in Latvia and Lithuania are lower than we do, why does he not compare us with Sweden, for example, where the electricity excise duty on domestic consumers is EUR 30, which is many times higher than we do. I asked the representatives of the Ministry of Finance why Sweden would then apply such a tax policy. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the systems are different and that comparisons are quite difficult to make. I also had another question for the initiators of the draft: do you really think that the proposed excise duty change will have a greater impact on electricity price formation than other factors such as total consumption in the market or producers' interest in supplying electricity or the carbon trading price. The initiator replied that the initiator wished to alleviate the situation of consumers. There was also a question about this, which was presented by Rannar Vassilyev, about how the amendment would affect legal persons. The answer was that it would affect both legal and natural persons. There were no further questions in the Commission. Perhaps it is worth adding that Mr. Marek Uusküla, Head of Department of the Ministry of Finance, introduced the position of the government at length. Renewable energy subsidies are already large in Estonia. He also explained that the share of excise duty in the price of energy was less than 5% and that when the market opened up, excise duty would remain at the same level of EUR 4,47. After all, this share will then be further reduced and the possibility of price influence through excise duty will also be reduced. According to the representative of the Ministry of Finance, the problem of the business consumer is more the increase in renewable energy charges than excise duties. And he once again explained that the market had more impact on the price than the excise duty. Finally, we spoke briefly to oil shale as well, but in today's debate we learned much more about the motives of the drafters than we did in the Commission. The Commission decided by consensus to put the draft on the agenda on 22 November. The second decision was to reject the draft at first reading. There were 6 in favour of this proposal, 2 against the Commission and no abstentions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U184	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. You have questions too. Let's start with my colleague, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U185	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Thank you for your very thorough presentation, but I also have a question for you: does the Reform Party not support its coalition partner's slogan 'Home expenses down! '? As you understand very well, the Social Democrats' draft, above all, seeks to reduce home expenses. Do you have any tension or disagreements about this within the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U186	We did not discuss this issue in the Commission. I can explain my opinion on this for a long time here if I wish, but I do not want to leave the role of representative of the Commission. But we learned today in this Chamber that the consumer, who is currently paying €380 per year for electricity for the 'Home 1' package, would win €15 per year, i.e. €1 25 cents per month. This would have an impact on the electricity consumer's wallet. Whoever spends more will, of course, have a greater effect on it. But how the EUR 29 million that the country would lose would be covered, we did not receive an answer today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U187	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U188	Thank you. Dear waitress, You stopped saying that if the electricity market was opened to private consumers in 2013 and the related price increases were softened according to today's draft, the state would be expected to lose a certain amount of revenue. But please also enlighten us from this point of view that if this price increase comes from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, after all, has clear forecasts of the range that this price increase can come from, how much will the state gain from it thanks to the higher VAT receipts?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U189	At the time of the author's statement, the sources of cover were confused in this context. Energy is rising, that's clear. That's what Arto Aas said nicely, it's inevitable. The Ministry of Finance has its own forecasts of the state's income-costs must be forecasted. Even taking into account the figures for the VAT forecast, which include more VAT received due not only to the increase in the price of electricity but also to other forms of energy, it is expected that the Estonian budget will also be in deficit next year. However, we still want to achieve a balance as quickly as possible. Asking how much more VAT is due to this increase is a little too much. I think it's ten to 20 million, but it's a wild guess right now. I really don't have those numbers. However, it is reasonable to assume that the impact of price increases on VAT receipts has been taken into account. In another way, it is not possible to predict the state's tax revenues for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U190	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U191	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Did the Commission also have a debate on how the increase in electricity prices will affect local authorities? As we have seen recently, local authorities are using extreme methods. The last measure was, for example, that Rae Municipality raised the kindergarten fee by 74%. Has this impact been taken into account in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U192	I don't think there's any reason to invent a bicycle. Of course, if the municipality is a consumer of electricity, it will pay these bills like everyone else. It also pays for the components included in the bill, including VAT, renewable energy fee and also excise duty. Of course, as Mr Kõivas said very rightly: this tax is well on the bottom, all consumers will pay. The share of excise duty is small, 5%, but everyone pays a little, and the country gets a pretty big sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U193	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U194	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a question: has the Commission, or perhaps the coalition, discussed how this happy pensioner, whose pension will rise 4.4% from 1 April, will cope with all the price increases that are now coming, including the price increases due to excise duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U195	I'll try to explain it to you again. I hope you will understand that the increase in electricity prices, when the market opens up, is not due to taxation. This is due to other factors.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U196	Please, Mr Peep Aru, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U197	Thank you. Did you also discuss in the Commission that if the Ministry of Finance estimates that this draft will lead to a reduction of approximately EUR 29 million in the state budget as of 1 January 2013, this could also affect the source of pension increases from 2013 onwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U198	The issue of the loss of public revenue was indeed one issue in the Commission. These effects may not be so one-to-one, but I think you are generally on the right track with your thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U199	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U200	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! My question was only waiting for 'yes' or 'no' to answer whether it was discussed or not. What do you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U201	The way you asked the question was not discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U202	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U203	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a question as to whether you discussed in the Commission whether the revenues received by the State are in balance with the costs for which the State has to put its own resources into play. I am talking about all the structures and areas of the country where electricity is used.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U204	Thank you for your question. I guess he got a little confused, but once again, the excise duty is paid by all consumers who use energy. The state is also one consumer, and the state also pays taxes in this respect there is nothing extraordinary about it. But we heard today what the real motive is for the initiator of the bill. The real motive is to increase oil shale taxes, which would give a very painful blow to 150,000 people who use central heating in the vicinity of the oil shale production area. We also learned today that the initiators' plan to reduce excise duty, but to tax oil shale would mean that we are taxing the electricity produced in Estonia, but the electricity imported from outside would not be taxed. This is, of course, very interesting information.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U205	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U206	I would also like further information. But please don't talk about KredEx and energy savings! This very sensible undertaking we have been doing for years, regardless of whether the electricity market is opening up or not. Now, the electricity market will open in 2013. Name one measure proposed by the Government of the Republic of Estonia in Estonia in order to mitigate the resulting increase in electricity prices!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U207	Thank you. Last week, the cornerstone of Estlink 2 was laid, which significantly improves our electricity supply. That's one very good example you wanted one.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U208	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. No negotiations will be opened. As the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading, we need to vote on it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject draft law 94 on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please vote! 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 38 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Bill 94 has fallen out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U209	Our next item is the first reading of the Bill 97 of Amendment to § 4 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Mr Kadri Simson, Member of the Riigikogu, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U210	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Well, I stand before you again with the progressive tax bill and continue my folk lighting work. At some point, I think that the majority of the Estonian Parliament must also understand that this tax system, which is in use in most advanced Western countries, is also appropriate for Estonia. In Estonia, however, the advocate of progressive income tax has to explain his views again and again, so it seems to me that our country sometimes ignores the developments of the last few centuries in the Western world. Adam Smith, who founded today's economics and liberal market economy in the 18th century, said that it was natural for the richer people to contribute to public spending, and the greater the proportion their revenues are. So what is it?! Several centuries have passed, and we are still arguing here whether the basics of economics in Estonia apply or not! But having accepted the situation that the Reform Party will defend like a dragon its gold egg be rid of one misconception about progressive income tax, the other will grow in place, I will still fight the dragon here, and I will stand for the Estonian state to have a sufficient tax base to carry out its tasks. For this time, there is such a counter argument that we do not know whether a small Estonia can cope with a complex tax system such as the progressive income tax system. Can we collect these taxes? In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a fellow Member made a very good remark that there are some countries in our immediate neighbourhood and elsewhere in Europe that can implement such a complex multi-stage tax system. Their budget is fine and the taxpayers are getting more and more people are not leaving these countries. In order not to read to you all the many countries that use progressive income tax, I will take up a shorter list. This is the list to which we belong with our current tax system. This list includes Hong Kong, Jamaica, Tuvalu, Estonia, Lithuania, Grenada, Russia, Serbia, Iraq, Slovakia, Ukraine, Georgia, Romania, Turkmenistan, Trinidad and Tobago, Kyrgyzstan, Albania, Macedonia, Mongolia, Montenegro, Kazakhstan, Mauritius, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Timor, Belarus, Seychelles, Paraguay and Hungary. There's not a list where we'd feel proud, is there? Those countries that we are striving for, and which we are trying to catch, have not abandoned their tax systems. Perhaps the best example is Iceland, who once faced the crisis, tried the same system that we have, sometimes some Estonians went there and gave an inspiring speech about how it would help the economy to get back on its feet, and went back to progressive income tax. Or a saddest example: Hungary introduced the same tax system as we have here from 1 January, and yesterday we could all read the news that the poor Hungarian Government is asking for assistance from the IMF. Perhaps they also allowed themselves to get mad that the phasing-out of income tax would bring new investments and help the economy to grow rapidly. The reality is that Hungary seems to have the lowest economic growth compared to the new European Union countries this year when it introduced a uniform income tax. The Hungarian Prime Minister's party, FIDESZ, in a debate on the budget in Parliament on 27 October, proposed that a higher degree should also be established. This would be 27% and would apply to income that represents at least 112,5% of the minimum wage. So a pretty high income tax also for relatively low incomes. But perhaps it is more appropriate for us to compare ourselves with a small European country that is as good as we are and in comparable size? So let's take Slovenia, who had the euro before us, who has a little more inhabitants than we have Slovenia also has a graduated income tax system with three levels. The higher level applies to income exceeding EUR 14820 per year, i.e. 41%. The average step of 27% applies to those people whose income is between EUR 7410 per year and EUR 14820 per year. So if you are now looking at the level of taxation we are proposing, it is not at all that high compared to Slovenia, for example. But the main reason why we came out again with progressive income tax is that progressive income tax helps the state to prevent the economy from growing boom and that when the recession comes, it doesn't fall like this. The progressive income tax will silence economic development, keep it stable and, ultimately, all will benefit from it. I'll come to those steps for a second. As far as the rate of 33% is concerned, this is a compound progression. If your income exceeds the higher tax rate, the higher tax rate applies only to the amount exceeding the income limit. It can never be that a person who earns, for example, EUR 2 000 per month would receive less money because of progressive income tax than his colleague who earns EUR 1900 per month. Only a portion of income above the income threshold is taxed higher. That this is not the case is one of the main misconceptions, and I hope that everyone in this Chamber will understand that this is not true. The highest tax rate of 33% is very low on a European scale, with the highest tax rate in the euro area of 40.2%. And when we look at what is happening in Europe, the economic crisis has made a number of countries work, and it is very common that one of the first increases is the increase in the highest tax rate. Italy, France and Great Britain, for example, have gone down this road. A relevant survey has been conducted in the United States. After all, there will be presidential elections in a year's time and there will be an inquiry into what tax change would benefit at least 51% of US citizens. The only way to increase the tax rate was for the wealthiest people. In the case of 33%, we must also bear in mind that we have a northern neighbour in Finland, where, as we know, progressive income tax also applies. The tax rates are 0%, 6,5%, 17.5%, 21.5% and 30%, but for all of them, 19% will be added to the local tax. So if, for example, we add up taxes for incomes of at least EUR 22600 per year, then we will already have a higher tax rate than our graduated income tax system has proposed. I would point out that Finland is the favourite exodus country of Estonians, despite the progressive income tax applicable there. During this time, we followed the principle of progressive income tax, as you may have noted, that we must start quietly at first in order to make the differences in income tax in force in Estonia more understandable. Therefore, only one higher tax rate has been proposed. We did not get too enthusiastic, although there are also examples in Europe where the tax is levied on 17 different levels of income, for example, in Luxembourg. As modest a distribution as we have offered, most countries that can properly collect their taxes are not afraid, and I think we should not be afraid either. The progressive income tax gives Estonia the opportunity to earn significant additional income in the budget, which can fulfil obligations that cannot be fulfilled at present, for example, to keep our teachers, rescuers, policemen in Estonia and to stand up for our child support. On the other hand, it is said that the money comes from someone, some people have to pay more. But always some people have to pay more. If the Estonian Government has decided that more must be paid by everyone, i.e. increased VAT and excise duties, this means that there is also a heavy burden on people who do not have a job today, i.e. the unemployed, and those who do not currently work for older families and families with children. Our proposal is that people who have won the most from 26% to 21 tax reductions could also play their part. Remember, it wasn't very long ago when Estonian income tax was 26%. If we now compare the person who works for the minimum wage and the person who earns a decent salary, say EUR 4 000 and who would certainly be affected by the progressive income tax, the person who has worked for the minimum wage has won from 26% to 21% only EUR 72, but the person with a salary of EUR 4 000 has won nearly EUR 2 200 every year. It's 30 times more! And those people who have won so much more than the fall in income tax are actually relatively willing to contribute more. When it comes to public opinion, there are plenty of opinion leaders who confirm that they are willing to pay more so that Estonian teachers receive a decent salary. They are more willing to pay for the Estonian infrastructure to meet their expectations, so that security is not a luxury for the individual, but for the good of all. So there is a mature public opinion that there can be no more cuts and a high-paid person can also contribute. One thing I want to draw attention to is that our bill does not provide for any further reduction of income tax. The current government, which criticised the previous draft and asked where the cover for the expenditure you want, where you intend to take it from and what you are going to replace, has itself planned to reduce income tax from 21% to 20%. The corresponding loss to the state budget is 57 million personal income tax losses and 13 million corporate tax losses, without any source of cover from which the necessary money will be replaced. So you can see the surface in the opposition's eyes and not the log in your own eyes. I would also like to point out that the additional revenue resulting from our draft will initially be paid purely to the state budget, because we do not want to change the share of income tax received by local authorities by this draft. It is true that our firm assumption is that the government must restore their share of income tax to local governments to at least 11,93%. But it is confirmed in any case, it does not depend on the fact that there may be more high-wage earners in one municipality and fewer in the other. The additional revenue from the higher rate of income tax would be clearly transferred to the state budget, from which this money can be allocated in accordance with national interests. I would also point out that the government has found no errors in this draft except that such a change in the tax system does not include the programme of the Government Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Estonian Reform Party. The programme states that it will continue with simple and uniform personal income tax and that in 2015 the tax will be reduced to 20%. There are no further substantive objections in the letter from the Ministry of Finance. We have seen that the government union programme is such a time-changing document. Most of the government union programme signed in 2007 was not implemented. So don't let it make you a more important document than there are other documents on the development of the Estonian state! I sincerely believe in our country's ability. I believe that our Tax and Customs Board will also be able to collect higher taxes and implement a more complex tax system, because most of our people will declare their revenues online anyway. And what is possible in most European Union countries, in the vast majority of euro countries, should also be possible in an e-Tiger country such as Estonia. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-22_U211	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. As the time for our sitting is over, we will continue this interesting debate tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
