ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Honourable Members of the Government! Let's start today's briefing. First, let's, please, check your presence! Currently 48 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 53 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Mart Laar and Minister of Culture Rein Lang. Ladies and gentlemen, Since there are many questions today, we can only allow two questions on each subject. So whoever's got better fingers can ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U2	Let's start with the questions. Please, Mr Nestor, a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U3	Hi! My first question is more about political culture. Mr. Prime Minister! Governments have partners, they are social partners or self-government associations, and there are probably more, and governments enter into agreements with them. In political life, governments change, there will be another government. That's my question. If a government's previous agreement with its partners is no longer appropriate, what is the correct practice or what you think is right, should the government sit at the negotiating table again and conclude a new agreement, or may it act as it sees fit and not have to negotiate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U4	So and so, it depends on the content of the agreements. But if you're thinking about the reserves of social security funds right now, I wouldn't say so and so. Here, agreements are absolutely necessary. But suppose some partners want something illegal over previously agreed legal. Then, I think, the government certainly should not accept this illegal solution. That's why my answer is, like, one way or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U5	Please, Mr Nestor, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U6	Thank you. I hope that the government will start negotiations with the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Trade Union Confederation. Is that it? Now question two. I am very sorry, but I have been asked this all along, and I have suggested that you turn to the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance, but obviously this question has not come to you. So I'm going to ask it now to get an answer for all the people who have asked me. From the point of view of the State's revenue and expenditure, for example, such a simple course of action would have the same effect as lowering the unemployment contribution rate and raising the rate of income tax. The fiscal objectives of the country would be met, but the protest and resentment that are currently on the side of employers and trade unions on unemployment insurance and the health insurance fund would not be. The fiscal objective of the state would have been achieved in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U7	I don't know what day it is today, but I'll say so and so. I cannot quite agree with you that the fiscal targets will be met. In addition to fiscal objectives, there are economic objectives and there is also feasibility. I hope that we are still talking about what did not want to be mentioned either by the questioner or, to a large extent, by the respondent, i.e. the consolidation of the reserves of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund into the government budget. We are talking about consolidation of reserves to the Treasury. As far as the consolidation of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund in general is concerned, we have nothing to discuss in this regard. It is not up to the government or the Riigikogu to decide; this decision has long been made by the European Union. According to this Decision, the social security funds are consolidating the balance of the general government budget and Eurostat is keeping a record of it with the utmost precision. So there's no decision-making here. The question now is how to manage the cash reserves available to both the sickness fund and the unemployment fund. There is no change in substance at the Health Insurance Fund because the funds of the Health Insurance Fund, both reserves and this cash reserve, have always served the Treasury and there is no qualitative or quantitative change coming. The case with the Unemployment Insurance Fund is that a small part of the reserve is currently managed by the Treasury under a contract between them, while the other part is placed in different funds. Where exactly, the public doesn't know, and I have to admit, I don't know either. I hope that this money is not placed in risky instruments. From the point of view of managing money, it would, of course, be reasonable to have a full view of where the reserves of the social security funds are placed exactly, but this requires an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U8	Please, Mr Nestor, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U9	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll ask you again. If, as an alternative to what is being done, reduce the unemployment contribution rate and increase income tax, the state's income will increase, the fiscal position will improve by that, and we do not have to worry. I have to say that I do not see a major problem in terms of the proportion of our debt to GDP. The proposal is to increase income tax, reduce the level of industrial security contributions and keep the sickness fund and unemployment fund independent, as they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U10	Yeah, it could be. But I'm sure it's essential to raise reserves for the Health Insurance Fund. In times of crisis, we have seen the need for reserves previously collected for countries, but also for social security funds. It's exactly the same with the unemployment fund. Obviously, we will soon be able to start reducing the unemployment insurance rate and there will be no need to increase income tax. When we are talking about consolidating reserves, or depositing reserves with the Treasury, we are not talking about reducing public debt, but about managing the finances and improving its quality. Now, no offense, this has not been said to them, but the volume of Eesti Pank's reserves has decreased significantly due to Estonia's accession to the euro area. Commercial banks no longer have to keep as much resources as they held during the crown. I think it would be reasonable to manage the state's assets from one centre at all. An extremely professional frame is needed to make a very sound allocation of funds. There is no point in assuming that teams working separately for the allocation of three relatively small resources are more professional than the sum of them would be if a single financial management scheme were set up for the country. When we talk about consolidation reducing the public debt burden, it must be borne in mind that reserves will also decrease. The fact that the percentage of public debt is slightly lower because of consolidation is not something that is an end in itself and which should be pursued at the moment. Effectiveness, security of layouts to reach this goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, Two issues registered on-the-spot. Please, first of all, my colleague, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will ask you a question that relates to the previous issue. Today's Midweek newspaper shows tough statistics that we have lost over 100,000 jobs in two years, 100,000 jobs, 110000 jobs or 112000 jobs. At the same time, we are talking about a reduction in unemployment. I have a question: what is the cost of this unemployment reduction if we do not have more jobs, and are the unemployed just out of the statistics? Is that what we're gonna show off on right now? What does your analysis say?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U13	Thank you. I don't know any serious people who think that Midweek is a serious source. I would also advise you not to trust what this publication, which you have referred to, is definitely not a good source. We have Statistics Estonia, Statistics Estonia makes quarterly reviews of both unemployment and jobs. Please read the website of Statistics Estonia! It is also easily accessible to all people who can communicate with a computer only on an elementary level. You simply write www.stat.ee and then, when the page opens, you have to find the appropriate folder, click on it again and then the numbers will open and they will tell you the truth, but not what is spoken to you in Midweek.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U14	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Vasilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U15	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! If the scenario that has increased since spring (which is considered to be a 50% probability) is realised, that the exit from the recession is w-shaped, that is to say, we may face another decline before a stable rise, and if the unemployment fund reserves have been realised for the purpose of general fiscal policy, what is the government's solution if unemployment is to rise again and payments to the unemployed increase in the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U16	Thank you. We have not discussed this draft in the government at the moment, which should consolidate the reserves of the unemployment fund into the Treasury, but as far as I am aware of previous negotiations, according to the plans discussed between the Treasury and the employees of the unemployment fund, what the financialists call a "duplication" should be considerably reduced, i.e. the duration of the placement. If, at the moment, the unemployment fund reserves are allegedly placed for a relatively long period in instruments that I am not aware of (I say again that I hope not to the Greek banks), then in the future, when the services of the Treasury are used, the Treasury's funds will be regulated in a very specific way, they will be traceable and the availability of funds will be guaranteed at a much faster time than now when the money is placed in various bank bonds across Europe. Flexibility must definitely remain. It is a question of depositing the reserves of the unemployment fund with the Treasury. If you deposit your money in any commercial bank in Estonia and if you have not made a fixed-term deposit, you can use it at any time. In the same way, the unemployment fund can also use its reserves if they are placed in the treasury. Once again, the Health Insurance Fund has been using this method since the beginning of time, and the Health Insurance Fund, as far as I know, has had no problems. We always have liquid funds in the Treasury in the old currency for about seven billion kroons. So you should not think that the Treasury will become illiquid.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U17	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U18	The next question is from my colleague Lauri Laas to the Minister of Defence Mart Laar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of Defence! The Ministry of Defence's internal audit revealed extensive violations of the Public Procurement Act in the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. Of the 122 defence procurements carried out in 2010, 44 tenders were checked, of which 33 or 68% were involved. 29 contracts were checked at the Ministry of Defence, 17 of them did not comply with the law. My question is this: what concrete measures have you taken as a minister to put an end to the violations of the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U20	Thank you, Mr Asker, for this important and important question. First of all, for the sake of clarification, the National Audit Office did not audit the Ministry of Defence for the honour of discovering the deficiencies. I would like to thank him very much for this thorough work, both on behalf of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces. Indeed, although the most risky procurement was addressed and no deficiencies were found in any major and significant public procurement, the deficiencies were undoubtedly present. What have we done? Firstly, in the case of serious infringements such as the division of procurement into lots, the failure to sign written contracts or the choice of the wrong procedure, the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Finance have started monitoring procedures. All those responsible shall be punished on the basis of the sanctions provided for in the Public Procurement Act. But it certainly doesn't matter. Your question was focused on what we were doing to prevent these things in the future. It is clear that the overall conclusion resulting from this document of the National Audit Office was that the organisation of procurement in the area of the Ministry of Defence's administration is too fragmented, which is why supervision of procurement competence is also fragmented. I'm sure one thing is that I've already signed an order to set up a task force. This working group will present me with concrete proposals by the end of the year to put an end to this fragmentation. This task force, I can confirm, is already working very actively. The deadline for work is the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U21	Please, Mr Laas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Minister for his previous reply. I have already received a partial answer to the following question, but I will still ask it. Is it known how much financial damage the state has suffered as a result of the failure to comply with the Public Procurement Act in the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence, and have you turned to the law enforcement authorities since the infringement was revealed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U23	Thank you. Yeah, really, I already talked about that. The monitoring procedure has been initiated and all those responsible will be punished, but I would like to add what was undoubtedly pleasant in this audit alongside these unpleasant phenomena. Indeed, this audit did not identify any corruption offences. This means that there were procedural violations due to incompetence or negligence. Neither the Defence Forces nor the Department of Defense were charged with corruption on the basis of this audit. However, these infringements show that it is not about individual cases or individual officials, it is about the system being too fragmented and flawed. In addition to punishing the guilty, our main focus is now on fixing the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U24	Please, Mr Mikko, the matter registered on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U25	Thank you. In the Ministry of Defence, where 29 tenders were made, the law was broken in 17 cases, so more than half the time. Since this took place in many respects during your predecessor's time, should your party partner, Mr Aaviksoo, also take responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U26	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, Mr Aavixol, I do not think there is any need to assume any responsibility here. It is always necessary to look at the overall volume of procurement in one place or another. As the previous questioner said quite accurately, only one and the most risky part of the volume of all purchases was dealt with, but no corruption crime was found. The main thing is that we have still not been able, although this issue has been discussed, to complete the consolidation of procurement functions, which has been planned for some time. I think that, after we discussed the situation very thoroughly with the Commander of the Defence Forces, these things, in cooperation with the Defence Forces, will move forward quickly. It is certainly important to launch another matter, which I have also ordered. A new procurement information system needs to be introduced from the new year. Soon, the Riigikogu will probably also be in front of the implementation of the European Union's Defence Procurement Directive, which will also help to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U27	Now, exceptionally, the last issue registered on the spot. I usually don't allow one person to ask two locally registered questions, this time I will. Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U28	Thank you very much. While we're talking about money, I want to ask you about the Statue of Victory of the War of Independence. Will you confirm, Minister, that the Statue of Victory for the War of Independence is now completely problem-free, so it no longer eats taxpayers' money because of structural crap?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U29	This is not about public procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U30	Although it was not a question of the public procurement system directly, I use classics and say: so and so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U31	Thank you, Minister of Defence. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U32	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, to Mr Rein Lang, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of Culture, I have a simple question for you. Two days ago, while performing on the Rain Radio, you said about the Russian Theatre: 'The situation where a beautiful house is held in the centre of Tallinn, which is not used to make theatre, ends. 'Cause I'm neither a cultural expert nor a lawyer-santhetic, as you call yourself, I didn't quite understand what you meant by that. Can you explain that? That sounds like a threat to take the house away from the theater. In that case, it would be a charlatan approach that if the finger hurts, we cut off the whole arm.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U34	Thank you. It's a very long story, but let's try to be very short and concrete. If other theatres use similar real estate at their disposal, as is currently the case at the Russian Theatre (one large theatre hall, plus black boxes, or one suitable for the performance), an average annual performance of 300 at the stand, the number in the Russian Theatre is more than half the size and 79 performances are planned for the following season. Secondly, on the basis of a lease agreement concluded by someone named Iljin, this house is also used for nightclub activities, which sometimes starts at a time when the guest performance of Vanemuine has not yet ended. The Ministry of Culture certainly does not intend to tolerate a situation where the theatre house is used unintendedly, not for theatre activities, but for nightclubs or other activities. There is no connection between Russian professional theatre activities. The Russian professional theatre will certainly continue its activities in Estonia, but we admit that there are management problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U35	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U36	Thank you. You still didn't answer my question. The fact that there are management problems in the theatre is clear. But my question is, if there are any management problems in the theatre, will they be resolved if we take the house from this theater. Plus, I don't quite understand why you think the theater isn't used to make theatres. The 228-times played there last year and the eight new productions brought to the stage are, in my view, a rather significant result given the same management problems and relatively difficult financial situation. It's only about October, November and December, and there's gonna be a little more shows in the course of the year, I think, once again, over 200. It's not that bad that we're taking the house away from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U37	I haven't heard such a thing yet that someone's going to necessarily take the house away from the theater, but the house has to be used to make the theater. That's the position of the Ministry of Culture. If the Russian Theatre alone cannot burden the house enough with its performances, it must be opened for guest performances to other theatres that have not been performed so far. Including, by the way, professional Russian crews from Ida-Virumaa, which we have two. In Narva there is the theatre Ilmarine and Kohtla-Järve Theatre Windmill, who has not been allowed to play there for any inexplicable reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U38	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U39	I guess it's inevitable that a genius is not understood in his own time, but I think with your statements in the media you've given a pretty serious blow to one of the key symbols of Estonian culture, the Russian Theatre and his reputation. I don't think that's right. My question is: what does the Minister intend to do to make up for this damage, so that the Russian Theatre could eventually become a decent and functioning theatre?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U40	Thank you. The minister won't back down on his words. The theatre house must be used for theatre purposes, not for nightclubs or other activities. The Ministry of Culture intends to continue this route. Here I see no reason to withdraw from my words and apologize to anyone. No harm has been done to the Russian Theatre. On the contrary, the Russian Theatre could work properly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U41	Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you two questions registered on the ground. First of all, Mr Eldar Efendiev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In the press there was such a statement in your name: 'We don't need a Russian theater like that. ' There may be a comment, of course, that one way or another, but I still want to specify which Russian theatre is needed, so that there is no comment, either way. Of course, you don't need to talk about the house, there's really a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U43	Yes, of course, no one has used the expression that we do not need such a Russian theatre. You thought of that one word in your sentence. But what kind of theater is needed? I think the Russian community in Estonia needs its own professional theatre. It should also exist organisationally, not only in the form of groups working on the project principle. Whether and how to ensure this is a question of a million dollars. Several options have been tried over the last ten years, none of which have worked so far. Even the most professional theatre managers have failed to manage the Russian Theatre. Let us hope that the current theatre manager Janchek can do this. But surely there must also be a council that helps, assists and directs the theatre's management. There are also problems with this Council, we admit.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U44	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Toom, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U45	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You know very well, and you realize that your announcement on the radio has caused some tension. Actually, you're the only person who can handle these tensions. My question is very specific. This year the Russian Theatre has a budget of EUR 1437255 for current expenditure and EUR 84476 for the acquisition and renovation of fixed assets. Will these figures remain the same in the budget for the coming year, or is it true that you intend to take away EUR 100000 and give Rakvere to the Theatre?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U46	Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The budget process is not complete, but the budget is finally adopted, by the way, by the Riigikogu. So, as to whether these figures will remain the same as in the budget plan that you have been obtained from somewhere, it must be said that this is certainly not the case. But I am pleased that as your former deputy mayor of Tallinn you are concerned about the financial situation of the Russian Theatre. Tallinn hasn't put a penny in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U47	Thank you, Minister of Culture. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U48	We will proceed with the question from our colleague Andres Anvelt to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U49	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! I'm still on the subject of the rescue. Your government's monetary policy has, at least in words, been aimed at economic recovery and creating a favourable investment climate. But one successful economic policy factor should undoubtedly also be a secure and safe environment. How does this fit in with the current situation in the Rescue Board, where several dozen expensive rescue cars are becoming scrap iron somewhere in the lawn due to lack of repair and maintenance money, and because of the shortage of wages, almost half of the commandos have no life-saving capabilities? So far, I haven't heard of your government rescue plan. Hence my question: when and how will the government resolve such a situation, even at the level of developing countries, in the field of rescue?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U50	Thank you. Where you've finished, I'm about to start. I have not heard that 0.4% of GDP in developing countries is spent on rescue services or running the fire-fighting system. Knowing your attitude towards Estonia and emergency services, I printed the last Eurostat report on the financing of emergency services in the European Union. This shows that Estonia finances rescue services at the same level as Bulgaria. We share our 0.4% of GDP in the first and second place in the European Union. Therefore, to blame the under-financing to the Riigikogu, to you, I do not think there is any reason, but it is probably necessary to complain about the lack of efficiency of the use of funds. You said there were 20 units of rescue equipment standing because there's no money for maintenance. I read from some online portal this summer that as many as 150 units of technology are standing just because there is no money for maintenance, and a few days later I read that more x units are being acquired. I've heard that the three helicopters we've acquired are unable to fly at the same time. Friends! This is a serious management problem; it is a question of efficiency in the use of resources. When resources are used to acquire new and new equipment, but at the same time there is no question of where the people who are going to use the equipment will come from, where the equipment will come from to buy fuel on that device, there are very serious driving problems. I think they're gonna have to be solved at the Rescue Department.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U51	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U52	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I was gonna ask you more about the Rescue Board, but since I have two options to ask you, I'm gonna ask you this first. Perhaps you will lead me to the right path and answer the question about Andres Anvelt's attitude towards the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U53	From your previous question, everyone could conclude that for you, the state of Estonia is something below the level of development of the developing country. I can't categorically agree with that attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U54	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U55	Thank you, Prime Minister. I've got guidelines for a future life. But if you listened to my question properly, you know I didn't talk about money like that. I asked when and how the government would resolve the situation. You may have answered in part that this is about a management crisis. Then I will ask when it will be resolved, because we have been talking about this crisis for a year now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U56	Thank you. I read the opinion story of an employee in a high position in the rescue service yesterday or the day before, and I dare say that what was written in this article was very reasonable. Yes, if we have units without life-saving capabilities, then there are two options for future action: the creation of life-saving capabilities or the integration of these essentially incapable structural units with capable structural units. There must certainly not be an illusion for people that merely putting a flag on a map means that people's safety is guaranteed, but that people's security must be essentially guaranteed. I understand that in emergency services and the Police and Border Guard Board, people are dealing with these problems. I don't see the current situation in black colors, I see developments pretty good. If you look at the statistics, you can see that the number of people killed and drowned in a fire accident is incomparably lower than it was a few years ago. Perhaps the results are also saying that the use of resources is much more effective than it might seem to people in the light of the question you have asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U57	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U58	The next question is Mr Inara Luigas to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. We all know that the euro area has been possessed by the financial crisis. A few years ago, Estonia made very strong efforts to join the euro area. This year we will use the euro, but we feel that we have come into a situation that we were not aware of before. In both the Riigikogu and the general public, the government has painted a picture of the euro area as a very positive area, even a paradise that will bring us investment, which in turn will create jobs, and the whole of our economy will improve. Looking at the figures, we can see that the situation in the European Union was actually rather alarming a few years ago. In 2009, Greece reported defaults, Portugal and Spain reported difficulties in January and March 2010. Greece received aid as early as last year. Why did the government not tell us honestly about the difficulties in the euro area at the right time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U60	One minute to ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U61	Well, I wouldn't think that in Estonia, the times when the newspapers will be read out loud should come back. I do not consider it reasonable that the format for reading newspapers in a loud voice be applied in a national parliament. Data on what took place in the Member States belonging to the euro area are available to all through the free press. We know that countries have become insolvent (Greece does not have it) at different times around the world, and this information is also available to all readers. I still consider Estonia's accession to the euro zone to be very useful for Estonia. The euro is not in crisis, the euro zone is not in crisis, the euro area Member States are in crisis. A number of Member States, which were in a relatively deep crisis a few months ago, are already starting to emerge from the crisis. It is true that, in the case of Greece, we do not yet have a reason for such optimistic assessments. However, because Estonia has joined the euro zone, there have been a lot of direct foreign investments in Estonia. These foreign direct investments create new jobs for us. Of course, foreign direct investments are also those that carry our export sector. The volume of exports has increased very rapidly in Estonia in recent years. If another year and a half ago, in March 2010, the number of registered unemployed was 14.6%, they are now 7.3%, which has doubled. What has made all this happen? This is mainly because foreign investors have trusted Estonia and made their investments here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U62	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U63	Dear Minister, So let's narrow it down a little bit...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U64	Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U65	Prime Minister, I'm sorry. So let's narrow it down a little bit. You rightly said that the eurozone is not in crisis, but the Member States of the euro area are in crisis. We also know that all the Member States of the European Union are bound by a single pact, namely the Stability and Growth Pact. All the Member States of the European Union must report. This pact means that there is control over the state budget and the loans taken by the state. The Estonian state fulfilled the pact very accurately, made cuts, used up extraordinary pension reserves, etc. Are you aware of what this is about and have you been informed by the Minister for Finance why this growth and stability pact is so fixed for one country, but for example, it is not for Greece? Has Estonia made any proposals here based on its own example?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U66	Compliance with the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact is transparent and transparent, and these data are available to all people who wish to follow this process. It must be acknowledged that the global financial crisis, which has already largely been put behind us, has forced most Member States of the European Union to break the Stability and Growth Pact. To put it plainly, only three countries have gone through this crisis without being subject to an excessive deficit procedure. These three countries are Luxembourg, Sweden and Estonia. A proceeding was initiated against Finland, but according to my knowledge, when they have met the deficit criterion, this procedure has been completed. In all the other Member States of the European Union, this is still an excessive deficit procedure. Why? The countries were obviously not prepared for this deep financial crisis. When this crisis hit the European Union and the world, they were forced to borrow more money. The reserves previously collected were of great help to Estonia. We didn't have to go into a credit crisis. Yes, we have cut our spending significantly, but I recall that expenditure was not much lower than the 2008 expenditure level in 2009. 2008 - EEK 90.1 billion, 2009 - 2.8 billion less, or EEK 87.3 billion. Of this 2.8 billion, which is two years apart, 1.3 billion came from the suspension of state contributions to the second pension pillar. So, 1.5 billion. Compared to Latvian or Greek cuts, we have cut relatively little.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U67	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am still asking one question about the crisis in the euro area, not about the Estonian budget. In particular, Estonia will participate in and make payments to the European Financial Stability Fund. The first payment shall be EUR 48000, which shall be the contribution. Next, we will make annual payments of a certain amount. My question is as follows. Since the European Financial Stability Fund is a public limited liability company registered in Luxembourg which operates under a private framework agreement, does the Estonian state still have any shadow contracts that will oblige a public limited company to make payments in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U69	Thank you. I didn't get that very well. When you discovered that there was a public limited liability company somewhere, where national governments carry money, and then that money disappears, that discovery is wrong, that possibility does not exist. It's an old story again. World War II had not yet ended when the financial leaders of the warring countries came together in Bretton Woods in the United States and decided on the financial framework to regulate international finances after World War II. Then it was also decided to set up a mutual assistance fund, which we now know as the International Monetary Fund. When Estonia adopted its kroon, Estonia decided to become a member of this mutual assistance fund without any major debate. Over the years, the IMF has assisted countries of all kinds. In most cases, this conditional aid (it is not even aid; it is actually a loan) has been very effective. These countries have come to terms with their finances, and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has not become any worse or poorer than it has helped the very poor and very troubled countries, but has only become more influential. When the eurozone was created, it was somehow thought that this kind of mutual assistance was not needed for the euro zone or for the European Union. The crisis has made it obvious to everyone that such a mutual assistance register is also needed for the euro area, and it has been decided to create an ESM. However, since the creation of the ESM requires longer procedures and changes to the Treaty and the need for aid has been acute, a temporary mechanism has been set up, namely EFSF. I think it's perfectly natural that we join this mechanism. I'm sure it's not true that if you pay it, it's going to be like a black mole hole.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U70	Mr. Prime Minister! There's two minutes to answer. I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U71	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I feel that Europe's rescue packages and the debt crisis in Europe and Greece are simply not wanted to talk. This really was not taken up at the time when we went to the euro. The people were not told that these countries had already been assisted in the past. But it is clear that the sums with which Estonia must support these countries seem a little unfair to the people. These are still very large sums, with about a third of the state budget coming over the years. After all, we made huge cuts and huge tax increases, froze our pensions. I have a feeling the Greeks will continue to drink wine and pay a high pension to their elderly, but we will all pay for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U72	Thank you. Your feeling is deceiving you. If Estonia joins the EFSF or we participate in the establishment of the ESM (one mutual assistance fund, all right), then the fact that we set up a new mutual assistance fund next to the International Monetary Fund does not mean that the money will go to Greece without any control, becomes ouzo and after that everyone starts to squirt. I find this notion extremely primitive and also offensive. Offensive not only to the Greek State and the people, but also to the leaders of all the Member States of the European Union, it is certainly also offensive to the employees of the European Central Bank. The International Monetary Fund shall provide the assistance under strict conditionality. If certain conditions are met, the aid will be granted if it is not met, then there will be no further loan payment. The European Union intends to put its mutual assistance cashier to work on exactly the same principle as the International Monetary Fund (IMF). If a country in need of assistance wants to obtain a loan, it must meet specific conditions, cut public spending, carry out certain structural reforms that help to save expenditure, raise taxes, etc. Life has shown that the IMF has been successful and mostly the countries that have benefited from it have been successful. We should not mistrust the leaders of the European Union, who are setting up a similar aid mechanism for the European Union and the euro zone, and we should not assume that there are people in Brussels who can only burn money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U73	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U74	Thank you, Madam President of the Riigikogu. Mr Prime Minister! As you said, the aid is actually a loan. But the loan really is help. We live in the European Union with Greece. If one member doesn't do well, the others will come to the rescue. The only problem is that Greece does not guarantee this loan with anything else than future tax revenue, because it cannot pawn either the acropolis or the island of Rhodes, but it is using this money to fill current holes. How and when the revenue comes, we don't know how to predict it, but at the same time we guarantee the loan. If, for example, I drink ouzo and I dance Sirtak and there is a hole in my budget, then you, as a reasonable person, are not coming to guarantee my loan. We have been told repeatedly that this guarantee will not be used. Has anyone made any calculations on the basis of anything, whether or not the guarantee has to be paid out, and what is the probability of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U75	If the loan is granted under strict conditionality to the beneficiary, the conditions must be set in such a way that the possibility of repayment of the loan is zero if they are completed. This has been the practice of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) so far. For a very large number of people, it seems that Greece is something that does not fit into our cultural space, that only irresponsible people live there. I firmly claim that such faith is wrong. Let us take this neighbourhood as an example of how international financial assistance has benefited one country. Two years ago, Latvia was at the heart of the deepest crisis in the world. Indeed, then their government deficit was estimated at 20% of GDP per annum. They could not borrow money from international financial markets because they were unreliable. The only way to avoid the country going bankrupt was to ask the IMF and the European Union for help. They got that help. This assistance, together with very effective action in the Latvian Parliament and in the Latvian Government, has done wonders. This year's deficit is 3.8% of GDP and next year's deficit is 2.5% of GDP. In essence, Latvia, which has been the country with the most irregular finances in the European Union, will in two or three years become one of the best-off countries in the European Union. If this was possible in Latvia, I ask why it should not be possible in other countries. We are not talking about Ireland and Portugal in black colours, as we are talking about Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U76	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U77	The next question is from my colleague Kajar Lember to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U78	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! A few days ago, the President of the Republic said in this very hall that he does not understand why the state does not even want to deal with the alignment of the local governments' income base and responsibilities in the light of the Supreme Court ruling. In March 2010, the Supreme Court decided that according to current legislation, it is not possible to find out what the size of the state and local functions of local governments are and how much money would be needed to carry out their state. That is why I ask what the government has done during this year and a half to comply with the Supreme Court ruling cited by the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U79	Thank you. After all, the budget approved by the Riigikogu for this year followed the decree of the Supreme Court. This is a process, namely a clear separation of the responsibilities of local authorities from those of the state. Let us acknowledge that the local authorities of Estonia, compared to those of the other Member States of the European Union, are certainly not poor in financial terms. While Estonia's public spending is around 25% at local level, with this 25% we are far behind Denmark, where 60% of all public spending is made at local government level, or Sweden, where this level of spending is close to 50%, but we are in the 10th place in the European Union. In Malta, 1.5% are spent, and no one is saying that there is no local democracy there. So it is not a question of spending; it is a question of delimiting national and local tasks. We have discussed this issue repeatedly in the government office, and we have also set out specific tasks. The Ministry of Defence, for example, has a minister sitting here next to me, working to clearly define the tasks of the local government and the state in relation to the military situation. This work will be done and will eventually reach the Riigikogu. The payment of income support funds has been discussed and it has been found that income support is not a public task. The state will allocate funds, but the local authority will pay the grant, and the funds will be allocated to it. In the same way, this selection, which is local, which is national, has been carried out in other areas, and this process continues.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U80	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U81	I know that the Ministry of the Interior, for example, has drawn up a code of conduct on the tasks of local authorities and the delineation of the national functions of local authorities in the light of a court decision, but, according to my information, the matter has been limited to this guide, although the government discussed this issue for the first time on 1 April 2010. Are you convinced that the regional minister understood what he had to do and takes it seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U82	I am sure all ministers will take the tasks assigned to them seriously, and I would argue that the task assigned by the Supreme Court to the government and, above all, to the Riigikogu can also be done. We've come a long way in this process. If the first shock was that we had to do everything around, then in the longer consideration, consultation and reflection, we realized that this task was not very extensive. We're gonna make it!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U83	A question registered on the spot, Mr Tarmo Tamm, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! As your former head of government, you should be very well aware of the state of the municipalities today. I ask: do municipalities really not want to repair you today and turn on street lighting at night, or is it still a question of financing the municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U85	Yeah, it's up to the local government now. I don't want to say that and that again, but in some local governments we all know the name of, it's like there's money, but this money is used for propaganda, instead of patching up asphaltia. So it's about making choices at local level. In some municipalities, things are fine, in other municipalities, there is nothing but propaganda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U86	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will finish the discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U87	We have time for one very short question. Please, Mr Allik, a question for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U88	Mr Prime Minister! From the mid-1990s until 2007, all the agreements of the government coalition have formulated the need for equal pay increases for educational and cultural workers. In recent years, the wages of cultural workers have fallen significantly, while the wages of educational workers remained more or less stable during the period of depression. As we know, nominal wages in the private sector have increased by 5% over the last year in the context of the continuing decline in real wages. With the net and gross salaries of Estonian teachers, we are among the last four OECD countries, according to the OECD's latest data. What are the plans of the government to find additional resources in the 2012 budget currently under discussion to raise the wages of education and culture workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U89	Prime Minister, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U90	Thank you. If these instruments were as simple as just to be found, we would probably look hard and find a lot. But in real life, structural reforms must be made as a whole. If we look again in the context of the European Union, in proportion to gross domestic product, culture is very well-funded at first place. Education is the fourth most important in the European Union. However, we still have a lot of dissatisfaction and, in order to eliminate this dissatisfaction, we need to look inside the sector for ways of making more efficient use of resources, so that the satisfaction and happiness of those working in the sector also increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U91	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will stop dealing with this issue because Question Time is over. Thank you very much, honourable Members of the Riigikogu, for asking questions. Thank you very much, members of the government and Prime Minister, for your answer. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U92	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the first working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U93	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 20 members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Chancellor of Justice. § 15 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights provide for the right of a person to a fair trial. The court has been given the possibility to arrest a person for a maximum period of six months. This is decided by the judge on the basis of the material provided by the prosecutor, where the prosecutor is not required to provide all the investigative material, but only those by which he wishes to justify the need for deprivation of liberty. And then the judge makes the decision and takes the liberty of the person for six months, but the person and his lawyer do not have the slightest chance of knowing on the basis of concrete evidence the judge has decided in this way and whether the judge has done so in a fair and justified way. The prosecutor's office claims that disclosure of pre-trial data may undermine the finding of the truth, but this claim is general, cannot be verified by anyone and in practice cannot be verified. As a result, arrest has often resulted in the application by the executive authority of a coercive instrument which results in false statements being made against the person himself. Because of the life management of many people, bank loans, leases, dependants and the like cannot live with their loved ones without serious loss of quality of life, and individuals prefer to admit guilty of a crime they have not committed by letting their loved ones lose their livelihoods, losing their homes and so on. Let us stress here that these are not persons who have been found guilty of a fair and fair trial but those who have been deprived of liberty on the basis of evidence, which we have no idea of. In view of this situation, we are going to ask the Chancellor of Justice a few questions. 20 members of the Riigikogu have signed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U94	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted one inquiry, and if the inquiry complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I will forward it to the addressee immediately. Here's the news. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: 1) the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Waste Act, initiated on 12 September, Leading Commission on the Environment; 2) in the Government of the Republic. a draft of the decision of the Riigikogu on 'Enlargement of the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development', initiated on 12 September, Committee on Monetary Affairs; 3) in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the State Defence Act and the War Age National Defence Act, initiated on 12 September, Lead Commission on National Defence; 4) in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Act on the Recognition, Implementation and Cooperation of the Convention on the Establishment of Parental Obligations and the Implementation of Measures for the Protection of Children, applicable law, applicable law, and the Act on Accession to the Convention, Leading Commission, Legal Affairs Committee, 5) in the Government of the Republic. a draft Act on the Amendment of the Radiation Act, initiated on 12 September, Leading Commission on the Environment; (6) the Government of the Republic. a draft Act on the Ratification of the European Agreement on Persons taking part in the proceedings of the European Court of Human Rights, initiated on 12 September, Committee on Constitutional Affairs; a draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Law and the Maritime Safety Act, initiated on 12 September, the Executive Committee of the Economic Commission, 8) in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, initiated on 12 September, commission of economic affairs; 9) in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Customs Act, initiated on 12 September, commission of the Economic Commission; a draft Act on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on Pension Insurance, initiated on 12 September, Committee on Social Affairs; 11) in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance initiated on 12 September, Leading Commission of the Social Affairs Committee, 12) in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the facilitation of investments and the ratification of mutual protection agreements, initiated on 12 September, the leading committee of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 13) in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Gambling Act initiated on 12 September and related amendments to other laws, Leading Committee on Economic Affairs; 14) in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws, initiated on 12 September, commission of the Committee on Culture; a draft decision of the Riigikogu on "Ensure compliance with the obligations arising from the European Financial Stability Fund Framework Agreement and its amendments," initiated on 12 September, Committee on Monetary Affairs; 16) in the Government of the Republic. On 12 September 2010, the Riigikogu's decision to approve the State's summary report for the financial year 2010 was initiated, the commission of the commission on monetary affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U95	91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U96	Let us begin the debate on today's agenda items. The first item on today's agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Audit Office Act and the Audit Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Kallas, Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U97	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at 58 two meetings: the first meeting took place on 7 June and the second meeting on 12 September. On 7 June, Kurmet Ojamaa, Head of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance, had also been invited to the meeting, who gave us an overview of the deadlines for implementing the Audit Activities Act and the related problems, why they have been postponed so much. The committee discussed the matter and decided to send a draft to the 58 plenary sitting of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 14 September with a proposal to conclude the second reading. Should the second reading be completed, the third reading of the draft should take place on 15 September. Both decisions were taken by consensus. On 12 September, a meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs was held at which we discussed this draft again. In particular, we discussed the amendments received in the meantime and the referral of these amendments to second reading. The question of extending these deadlines arose at the June Commission meeting. My colleague, Mr Kaljuvee, proposed that this deadline be extended even more than the state had foreseen in order for everyone to be able to meet their obligations in time. The Ministry of Finance had considered a proposal to extend the deadlines presented at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and had prepared an amendment in this respect. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, it was decided to take full account of the proposal received from the initiator. There were 9 members of the Commission in favour of this decision, zero against and zero abstentions. As regards the draft procedure, it was decided to stick to the decisions taken at the meeting on 7 June. This decision was also adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U98	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. No questions for the waitress. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U99	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The law of audit activity is another example of our failure to deal with the law. I myself was in the previous parliament of the Economic Committee, where the law on audit activities was discussed, and I remember very clearly how much this law caused emotions. At first, it seemed that auditors' will is the law to deal very quickly, because then we would have a two-layer audit system and the so-called sworn auditor would be able to infiltrate businesses with a slightly higher price list, because under certain conditions auditing is mandatory for companies. Later, it became clear that these doubts were completely unfounded, as such conspiracy of sworn auditors or future sworn auditors did not exist. The next point of discussion arose from the fact that the law substantially extends the audit obligation, introduces certain two-layer audits, where in one case it is simply reviewed, in the other case the auditor also assumes responsibility for what he has reviewed and so on. It was awfully urgent. At one point, the auditors realised that they would be subject to obligations that they were relatively unlikely to be able to perform in an operational manner or perhaps not to fulfil at all. When the representatives of the auditors arrived at the various political groups of the Riigikogu, at least the faction of the Centre Party they arrived, it turned out that it was clearly too late to listen to these proposals. The pressure from the initiators of the bill was fantastic and determined that there is no way we can discuss anything else here, we have to do it now, because we are in a hurry. Now we are in exactly the same situation as we were in the process of dealing with the law of traffic. We were in such a terrible hurry with the law of traffic, and then we broke the law. Today we are in exactly the same situation and it is quite funny to read the explanatory statement, when referring to what the citizen of Kurmet Ojamaa said, we can say that the position of the Ministry of Finance is this: otherwise we are all bad, we are not coming out now, but one is good with the mental health of the auditors we have no problems, because nine auditors or whatever number in the explanatory memorandum that have taken the exam has basically passed it. Look, this is not the Estonia we wanted!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U100	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law tabled by the commission and it has been accepted. Now we can say that the second reading of bill 58 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U101	Our next item is the first reading of the draft Act 72 on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union and the Amendment to the Law on Administrative Cooperation initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the law implementing the European Union's common agricultural policy and the law amending the law on administrative cooperation. The main objective of the amendments is to bring the current European Union law implementing the common agricultural policy into line with European Union law and to clarify the text of the law which entered into force on 1 January 2010, making it clearer and clearer. The Administrative Cooperation Act is complemented by a reference to the Common Agricultural Policy Implementation Act of the European Union as regards an administrative agreement with the local Leader action group (to prevent the conduct of procurement procedures). The amendments set out in the draft concern the transmission of market information, direct payments, market management measures, support for the rural development plan for the 2007-2013 period, the Advisory Centre and its control, producer groups, the organisation of agricultural accounts, the register of agricultural payments and agricultural masses, and national supervision. The following are the major changes set out in the draft. The provisions of the draft relating to direct payments specify that the single area payment may be applied for in respect of at least one hectare of agricultural area kept in good agricultural and environmental condition. This area shall be determined by taking into account an area of at least 0,3 hectares, including hedges up to two metres wide, ditches, boundaries or other traditional landscape objects. This supplement establishes a maximum width of two metres in accordance with European Union law. Until now, the PRIA has taken this into account, but for the sake of clarity it is necessary to introduce this addition into the law. In addition, the provisions on direct payments have been amended as a result of the fact that no additional direct payment for crop cultivation can be granted from 2010. The Bill complements the provision on the transfer of the payment entitlement for additional direct payments by adding that, if the holding is fully transferred to the holder who is directly related to the holder of the holding as an ascending or descending relative and a laterally related or spouse within the meaning of subsections 80 (1) and (2) of the Family Act, the right to grant supplementary direct payments acquired by transfer will also be transferred to the new owner. According to the wording of the law currently in force, the right to supplementary direct payments cannot be transferred more than once. With the new wording, we will remove restrictions on the disposal of close relatives. The bill regulates the situation where the holding is transferred to a new owner and the new owner wishes to receive a payment in his name for which the application is still pending. In accordance with European Union law, entitlement to the aid is subject to the condition that information on the takeover of the undertaking and the application for payment of the aid are submitted during the transposition period established by the Member State, which starts after the application has been lodged and ends before all the conditions for entitlement to the aid are met. As the time for applying for direct payments or for supplementary direct payments and for processing applications varies during the calendar year, it is not possible to establish a single transposition period in the law. The law therefore empowers the Minister of Agriculture to establish the transposition period for each type of direct payment or supplementary direct payment by means of a regulation. The draft amends and supplements the wording of the provisions on market management measures and brings them into line with European Union law. Firstly, according to the amendments to the school milk and school fruit payments, the PRIA has the possibility to carry out on-the-spot checks at the educational establishments participating in the school milk and school fruit support scheme but not itself applying for such aid. The applicant may be a catering establishment or a local authority. Such changes will also be made to the chapter on national supervision. In addition, the task of establishing a national strategy for the implementation of the school fruit scheme will be the Minister of Agriculture instead of the Government of the Republic, as this strategy falls within the remit of the Minister of Agriculture. As another major change in market management measures, the draft clarifies the wording of the provisions governing rules on the marketing of fruit and vegetables and compliance checks. The amendments stem from European Union law, from the introduction of conformity control provisions in the chapter on monitoring of the draft and from the clarification of the procedure for the use of a special labelling authorisation for operators marketing fruit and vegetables. The proposed changes related to the support for the Estonian Rural Development Plan 2007-2013 can be divided into two large groups. Firstly, the provisions relating to the establishment of a clearer legal framework for the activities of the Leader action groups set up to implement the development plan. This follows from the decision of the Tartu Circuit Court of 11 May 2010, according to which Leader activity groups are administrative bodies within the meaning of § 8 (1) of the Administrative Procedure Act. This means that their actions, consisting in the processing and evaluation of the proposals for action in the operational programme drawn up by them for the implementation of the local development strategy and the strategy, and in the decision on which projects to grant support and to which they do not act as administrative bodies. In the law in force so far, Leader action groups have only been mentioned as one possible evaluator of proposals for rural development programme measures. It should be stressed here that compared to the real situation, there is no intention to impose significant additional requirements on Leader action groups. As a result of the proposed amendments, a number of provisions would now be introduced at the level of the law, which so far regulated the formation and operation of Leader action groups in the form of the provisions of the Leader implementing regulations. For example, the provisions that a local development strategy will be developed by a non-profit organisation acting as a local action group, whose statutory objective is to develop local life and which meets the requirements set for the action group, and that the local action group will be obliged to draw up an operational programme for the strategy for each calendar year, describing the measures of the strategy and the budget planned for their implementation. In essence, the new provision is the paragraph governing the conclusion of the management contracts for the groups of activities, since only the local action groups to which the management contract grants the right to do so can select the projects to be funded. In accordance with this provision, the management contract shall be concluded with the ARIA groups, the procedures for requesting the conclusion of the management agreement and the application procedure, and the application form shall be established by the Minister of Agriculture by means of a regulation. Since, in reality, Leader action groups have not been re-elected for several years now, this amendment to the law is accompanied by a provision amending the Administrative Cooperation Act according to which the procurement procedure would not apply to administrative contracts awarded to local action groups to carry out the tasks described above. Another major change related to rural development support is the possibility to finance the beneficiary's activities from state resources before full payment for work, service or property, in order to create better conditions for the implementation of the development plan's investment projects in a degraded economic environment. At the present time, the beneficiaries have limited resources to carry out their projects, to cover their costs, but support from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development can only be paid after the project has been carried out and the expenditure has already been paid. It is therefore important to find flexible financing opportunities for the successful implementation of the development plan. The new financial mechanism provided for in § 62 is a national solution aimed at making better use of the public budget for co-financing fund contributions. The provisions of the draft concerning the producer group shall exclude non-profit organisations from the list of producer groups which may apply for recognition. The main activity of the recognised producer group is the marketing of the production of its members with a view to obtaining the highest possible sales revenue, but the NGOs are not suitable for promoting economic activity and are therefore excluded. The provisions relating to the agricultural aid and the agriculturalmass register shall specify that each agricultural vehicle shall be given a numerical code and entered in the register in the field covered by the payment entitlement. The form of the application for entry in this register shall be established by the Government of the Republic in place of the Minister of Agriculture. It is possible to record the data in the register both on the basis of a person's application and, as amended, without it (e.g. data generated during the grant application procedure) within 30 working days. The draft also extends this deadline, which is necessary for the processing of data relating to agricultural masses. The wording of the provisions on national supervision of the draft law will be clarified and supplemented and in some cases the supervisory authority will be appointed at the level of the law instead of the regulation. The amendments include the Ministry of Agriculture, which is responsible for monitoring the advisory centres, among the national supervisors. The national monitoring of the local action group shall be carried out by the PRIA with a view to ensuring the protection of the financial interests of the European Union and equal and uniform treatment of applicants for project grants in decisions approving or refusing to approve applications for project grants. During supervision, the PRIA shall have the right, inter alia, to verify the existence and fulfilment of the working arrangements adopted by the local action groups, as well as the substantive compliance of the working arrangements with the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act. The supervising authority shall be the Food and Veterinary Office in the case of payment for industrial sugar and some other sweeteners. In particular, the regular and timely use of raw materials shall be checked. Monitoring of products from intervention stocks and products derived from their use shall be regulated. This monitoring will be carried out by the Food and Veterinary Office and the Tax and Customs Board. The draft also includes an implementing provision setting a deadline for non-profit organisations which currently carry out the functions of a local action group to have concluded an administrative contract. According to the draft law, this deadline is 1 January 2012, but as September 2011 has arrived today, it is not very real. I hope that during the procedure in the Riigikogu, it will be possible to postpone this deadline according to how the Riigikogu will be agreed. I believe that this can be done during the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U103	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U104	Thank you! Good minister! Listening to your speech and this explanation, it seems that some of the provisions of the law implementing the CAP will become a little more liberal than they have been so far and will allow applications to be submitted better. In particular, it should be a pleasure for farmers who were still struggling to obtain their own investments and co-investments from banks. There were a few questions, though. The first is on the exclusion of applicants from the list of non-profit organisations. Could you explain that a little bit more? In many cases, NGOs are the so-called sustainability engines of life in the countryside. They're not profitable companies anyway, they're more of an extension of the traditional way of life. Is there any justification for this, or is it a European requirement? Secondly, have all the changes you propose been negotiated with stakeholders, producer associations, Leader group associations, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U105	Thank you for your question. Many things really become more flexible with the draft, and perhaps the most important thing is that of investment. We are creating an opportunity where the investment can be divided into stages and then financed on the basis of partly paid expenditure documents. It is not necessary to complete the entire investment and the applicant does not have to pay the full cost, but it is sufficient for him or her to submit expenditure documents and have paid off his or her own contribution. It will then be transferred from the state budget, or from the grant decided by the PRIA, approved in this respect, without having to take and finance the bank before the credit. This will make the investment cheaper and make it more flexible. True, the PRIA has more work and responsibility. Yes, this draft has been discussed with all the parties involved, and all the major umbrella organisations have been able to express their views. As far as non-profit organisations are concerned, this has been a long-standing issue. Our idea is that non-profit organisations would not be eligible for investment grants, but they would be eligible, for example, for the implementation of quality schemes and soft projects. So that is the objective, and we hope that this law will be adopted in this form. But we are thinking here precisely of investment support and investment support should still be applied for by companies, profit cooperatives and not by non-profit organisations. This has also been accepted by all umbrella organisations, including the Farmers' Association, the Farmers' Confederation and the Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U106	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture. I would like to ask my colleague, Kalvi Tõud, from the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U107	Madam President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed draft law 72 s. a at the meeting on 29 August. As here in Saalisk today, our Minister for Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder, also gave a thorough overview of the draft law in the Committee on Rural Affairs, and he was supported by Deputy Head of the Agricultural Market Management Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, with comments, replies and additions, Kristel Maidre, and Ove Põder, adviser to the Rural Development Department of the same Ministry. During the debate, questions were asked in the Commission, and the same question was raised as Mr Sooäär asked in this Chamber. We received answers to all questions and decided on all points by consensus: send the draft law amending the Act implementing the Common Agricultural Policy and the Law on Administrative Cooperation of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for the first reading today, 14 September. a; propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of draft 72; set ten working days, i.e. 28 September, at 6 p.m. (and as the Minister's statement was heard, it seems that amendments should be tabled) for the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft and appoint me, Kalvi Tõud, as rapporteur for the 72th commission. Thank you and I'll be waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U108	Thank you very much. There are questions. Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U109	Thank you. Your party partner, Jaak Allik, complained yesterday on a television show that there was no debate in Parliament and that the opposition had nowhere to be heard. Did I quite rightly understand that there was, and was, a debate on this issue in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U110	Thank you. There was a debate in the Commission, and there was a debate. Jaak Allik is, in fact, a member of the Committee on Culture and Education, and maybe there are different things in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-14_U111	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kalvi Tough. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting 72 amendments. 1 p.m. on 28 September 2008. First reading of Bill 72 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda has been exhausted. Get back to work! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 2.33 p.m.
