ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U1	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister and members of the government! Good guests and Question Time Watchers! Let's start the 19th October briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 42 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 59. Today's Question Time will be attended by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs. Good fellows! Since six questions have been registered in advance today and there are quite a lot of them, for each of the questions registered, I will give the opportunity to ask two questions registered on the spot. I'm asking for understanding!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U2	Let's get to the first question. It has been submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, which is answered by Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, and the subject is the withdrawal of the draft law 54 on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! The Government recently, just before the third reading, withdrew the draft law restricting the acquisition of immovable property. Tell me, please, who in your opinion decides on the exact content of the laws in Estonia, either the government or the parliament!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U4	The government can only submit draft laws. The laws shall be adopted by Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U5	Evgeny Ossinovski, first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U6	So how do you assess the government's actions on this bill? The government gave the draft to the procedure, and the Riigikogu agreed that one point should be added to it, and then the government suddenly decided that wait-wait, so it does not go, what kind of parliamentary maladministration will take place there!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U7	Thank you. Every author of the draft must also have the right to withdraw the draft if it becomes what the author has never wanted to change it to. I believe that the democratic way in which the draft authors can deal with their drafts will remain so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U8	Now let's go to the issues registered on the ground. Jaak Allik, please! Please give a microphone to a member of the Riigikogu Jaak Allik! Press, good fellow, the "Word" key and let's wait a minute. Let's hope that microphone works today. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U9	Now he's going to work. Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Narva-Jõesuu is a developing resort town. Potentially, he could become a pearl of the Baltic Sea. As a liberal, you will understand that any restrictions on the turnover of real estate hinder the development of the resort town. Moreover, most of the newest houses in Narva-Jõesuu are already already owned by citizens of the Russian Federation, through legal entities registered in Estonia. What is the protection policy of this situation and would you be willing to exclude the whole of Narva-Jõesuu from this so-called border zone? But maybe the whole border zone concept is a Soviet relic at all? It may have protected something during World War I, but not now. It's a miracle Narva-Jõesuu's patch isn't going to be robbed at night.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U10	Thank you. You have rightly pointed out that, as a liberal, I do not understand these sales restrictions very well. I'm inclined to share your view that this might be a relic. However, it is a fact that in 2003, when Estonia signed an agreement to join the European Union, it was granted an exception to the restrictions on the sale of arable land and forest land. This derogation was implemented in addition to Estonia in Latvia, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and Hungary. Now the period of validity of this exception is over and this exception must, of course, be removed from Estonian law. It is entirely natural for the government to take such a legislative initiative. However, we know that a provision was included in this draft in the Committee on Rural Affairs, which concerns not only the right of citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the countries of the European Economic Area or the OECD Member States, but also the right of nationals of countries outside these organisations to buy land. This amendment not only concerned farmland and forest land, but also concerned defence aspects. The government's motive for withdrawing the draft was primarily related to defence aspects. In my view, it is not excluded that such a relic should be removed, but this decision must be carefully considered, because we know that these restrictions have only just been tightened up on the other side of the border in the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U11	Prime Minister! Your time is up. Let's get on with the questions. Jevgeni Ossinovski, second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U12	As you said to Jaak Allik, Narva-Jõesuu and border areas, this is a defence-oriented restriction. As we know, the Secretary of Defense, Mart Laar, agreed to introduce this change before the second reading. Are you saying that Secretary of Defense Mart Laar is incompetent as Minister of Defence because he did not see any problem in this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U13	Thank you. No, there's no way I'm saying the Secretary of Defense could be incompetent. For your information, in addition to the Ministry of Defence, other institutions and ministries are also involved in the security issues of the Estonian state. The Minister of Defence is certainly not the only person who decides whether it is reasonable to keep this restriction in our laws, or whether it should be removed from it, on the basis of defence considerations. For example, an in-depth analysis of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu should have been required and their position should have been heard, not so hastily, passing on a provision concerning national defence in the draft law on a whole other matter. After all, many times the government has been scolded for trying to make decisions in haste. The destroyer has been the Riigikogu. I hope that the Riigikogu itself will not make the mistakes that it blames the government for making.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U14	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! It's pathetic to hear another story about how six centuries of sales are affecting national defence. I'm gonna ask you something else. When the Commission spoke about this, the government representative stated that it is actually pointless to talk about this issue, because the Tartu Peace Treaty is a border of 12 kilometres east, near Komarovka, behind the Narva River, the border zone is even outside the area now known as the border zone. I ask you, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, what do you think in your heart, which line is right, is it that goes along the Narva River or what is there near Komarovka?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U16	Thank you. My government minister has signed border agreements with the Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation, and I consider the current control line to be the Estonian border. We do not have territorial demands for the Russian Federation. The purpose of your question was somehow to provoke some of the speculations that the Russian Federation has repeatedly made towards Estonia. But the answer is no, there's no reason. At least I'm not giving it to you. Secondly, you may call these defenceal aspects pathetic or whatever, but you should know that the principle of reciprocity is very important in relations between countries. If there is no practical value to stress any aspect, one of the partners will not give up this argument lightly. However, reciprocity, or similar behaviour, is expected from the other side. I would like to hear you say that the restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property in the Russian Federation are pathetic. I think it would not be appropriate for a member of a national legislative body to make such assessments of the regulations of another country. Well, I'm avoiding it. But at the same time, I assure you that yes, I know that there are analogous restrictions in the Russian Federation, and I would once again expect reciprocity in lifting these restrictions. I have already rejected Mr Alli's personal position. As a liberal, I think it is not very appropriate to impose such restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property. I don't think they're justified. As we all know, such a restriction on the acquisition of immovable property can also be easily overcome by using mediation by companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U17	Prime Minister! Your time is up. Good fellows! I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U18	We will go to the second question asked by Mailis Reps, a member of the Riigikogu, Jaak Aaviksoo, and the subject is a school network. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U19	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister for Education and Science, First of all, I would like to express my condolences. Now to the question. From the media, partly from interviews, we have heard speculative figures. It has been said that according to your plan there are 70 upper secondary schools left on the upper secondary school network, it has also been said that a little over 50. Since you are kindly present here today in Question Time, it would be very nice if you would introduce what concrete steps you are actually planning to take and whether you intend to do so by changing the school network plan or the funding system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U20	Thank you, good questioner! The fact that the school network does not correspond to the changed situation, not only in demographic terms, but also in terms of the quality and funding of learning, is probably not unknown to the members of the Riigikogu and the general public throughout Estonia. Such a school network is beyond our economic means and such a school network cannot guarantee the quality that we expect from all educational institutions. The movement of the population over the last few decades has created disproportations that must be dealt with. The Ministry of Education and Research builds on the studies carried out in previous years, as well as on the forecasts of the number of students and the criteria for optimal schools in the school network, which have also been developed over recent years and are also publicly available, for example, on the basis of the Praxis 2005 survey. As a result, it can be estimated that the number of upper secondary schools should decrease in particular. There are currently 220 upper secondary schools with a total of less than 30,000 students. By 2016, if less than 20,000 students remain in upper secondary schools, the number of upper secondary schools should decrease. I've mentioned that upper secondary schools could be 100 or less or 50 or more. Today, I am ready to take one step forward and say: if you only take the lead, without taking into account the specific circumstances, if you take into account the ideal model of upper secondary school, you could have 54 upper secondary schools. Obviously, this number has to be higher. Specific proposals will be put into public discussion by the Ministry of Education and Research this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U21	Mailis Reps, first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U22	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! When we look at upper secondary school education and the upper secondary school network, one thing is, of course, the number of students. The other thing is all kinds of social issues. At the same time, it must be taken into account that we want to move towards an increasingly educated society and that young people, especially boys, should stay longer in the education system in the future and gain more knowledge. I have this question: as a minister, do you support the fact that, through various measures, both in upper secondary school and in vocational education, we will be able to guarantee almost all capable secondary education in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U23	I think that this is definitely the direction that needs to be pursued, and the Ministry of Education and Research is making efforts in this direction. Our biggest problem in the broadest sense is the number of young people without professional, specialised and professional qualifications, which amounts to 30%, or more than 30%, of the workforce. This education cannot be provided at the level of basic education. Tackling this problem requires the participation of all young people in education after compulsory basic education. However, I am not very convinced that the introduction of a formal obligation for secondary education would change the real situation, although I consider it justified as a political objective. As regards the connection with the school network, the structural reform of vocational education, including the school network, has given a positive experience. We have 30,000 students in secondary education and there are 30 of them, if you include the private sector, 40 of them. I believe that such structural reform is also possible at the level of general secondary education. How long a young person should necessarily take part in a vocational education system after completing basic education is already a matter of more specific policy choices. But, as has been said, the basic direction is for all young people to have basic education, except for special educational needs for which mechanisms exist, for all to have vocational, special and professional training, for all to have secondary education and, at least, for 40% to have higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U24	Second point, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U25	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! You pointed out that only financially or numerically, upper secondary schools could be 54, for example. Of course, if we only look at the number of money, then about 500 students have such an upper secondary school size, you have also mentioned it, where the upper secondary school can manage independently. In reality, however, this means that there are counties where there would be no upper secondary schools. Clearly, it is impossible to implement it in this way. The question is this: and to what extent do you currently have a full system of study grants and funding for school buses, building dormitories and all that? In vocational schools, these things were financed from European Union funds and partly with the support of municipalities and the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U26	Of course, this is not just a fiscal matter. It is quite clear that our smallest county cannot remain without an upper secondary school, not to mention many other specific examples. Therefore, with regard to this 54, it can be said that there is certainly no less than that. More than that? Yes, but how much, it requires not only a piece of paper and office, but also consultations with the municipalities directly affected. Of course, both school transport and a number of other instruments require a complex review. I consider it very reasonable and desirable that during the next financial period of the European Union, the Structural Funds also provide for the creation of a network of general education schools, at least at the same level as was the case in this financing period in the vocational education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U27	Now two issues registered on the spot. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U28	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! I, too, offer my condolences. My question concerns the right to self-determination and self-regulation of local government in upper secondary school. If the municipality is willing to provide additional funding and wishes to maintain upper secondary school as a general education school, on what basis and by what mechanism does the state close this upper secondary school, by changing the funding or by means of different laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U29	When I went to school, I was taught such wisdom that freedom was perceived as an inevitability. I don't think it's wise for the state to take the law or the money by force to resolve all the issues. On many issues, there is a greater consensus with local authorities than it appears, for purely political reasons. I very much hope that, if there is a comprehensive solution for the whole country, the political necks of bottles that many municipalities have for one reason or another will be eliminated together, offering compensatory mechanisms or solutions when a particular local authority needs it. But certainly, as in the case of private schools, if a full amount of own resources is found to support an educational institution, the state should not stop it in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U30	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will go with my question to this plan. Apparently, the ministry has already been or is currently working on a plan for the future of teachers. It'll probably mean a change in employment, unemployment, whatever. Is there going to be some kind of retraining, or are we waiting for older teachers to retire? What are the many teachers who are likely to be made redundant in connection with the optimisation of the school network?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U32	The truth is that over the last dozen years, the number of pupils in general education schools has decreased by a third, but the number of teachers has remained the same. It's probably not rational. At the same time, we know that the age structure of the faculty raises problems; young people do not come to school. The reform of the school network is certainly accompanied by the restructuring of the teaching community. Evidently, the reasonable conclusion is that in five years' time, there will probably be fewer teachers in general education schools than today. One of the most important problems facing teachers is to ensure that teachers are fully burdened in small schools. Looking at what kind of teachers are missing, we can see that the hardest thing is to find teachers with a partial load, sometimes with a very low load, who have up to ten hours a week. I'm not talking about lessons here, I'm talking about working hours. Finding people in these places, especially in the countryside, is extremely difficult because these people do not have other applications outside the teaching profession. In view of the age of the faculty, a number of teachers are likely to head for a well - earned retirement pension soon. In many cases, provision should be made for opportunities to be more flexible, for teachers to teach more than one subject, provision should be made for further education. I think that we have become too bureaucratic in regulating the teaching profession. Perhaps the possibilities for retraining and teaching additional specialties should be wider than they have been so far. So, together with the review of the school network, it is also necessary to review the performance of the teacher's duties or to review his or her job description.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U33	Thank you! I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U34	We will go to the third question posed by Riigikogu member Jaak Allik. Hanno Pevkur, a member of the Government of the Republic, answers this question. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U35	Minister of Social Affairs! Last week's TV show "The Spectator" introduced to the viewer the mass redeployment of the incompetent guardians of the Narva Social Security Office and Ida-Viru County Court from their actual guardians to the so-called professional guardians. According to Narva's Social Security Officer, such a guardian, who in the case shown had 27 guardians, does not have to go to guardianship, but simply protect his interests and rights. In particular, this meant that the guardian received a guardian's pension, while the mother who lived with him continued to take care of him, now without a prescribed pension. However, the court did not accept the mother's application because it was drafted in Russian. But Narva Narva. I was astonished by the comment made by the Ministry of Social Affairs in this programme, where it was recognised that professional guardians are fully operational internships abroad, but little is yet common in Estonia. In this context, I ask: does the Ministry of Social Affairs also have an obligation and opportunities to control the social work of local governments or to provide them with methodological assistance, especially if the Ministry considers it to be a pioneering foreign experience in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U36	Thank you, good questioner! The organisation of guardianship is undoubtedly an issue that affects a great many. We must remember that no one is given custody simply because someone likes it. The granting of custody is decided by the court in Estonia and the court decides on a case-by-case basis. In this case too, the Court did not make a mass decision on 27 guardians, but a separate decision was made each time. Now, about how guardianship should be arranged. It is worth recalling that in 2010, Parliament discussed the new family law, including the regulation of custody. For example, the regulation of custody was created by an additional possibility that legal persons could also organise custody. If you look at Estonia's current practice, that is the case. We have the Foundation Kärla, who cares for the customers of Sõmera Hooldekodu in Saaremaa, and there is an Estonian NGO Eestkoste organisation. It is certainly not worth complaining that we have such opportunities. But I stress once again: guardianship is placed on individuals. As far as our capabilities or opportunities are concerned, of course we have methodological options for guidance. One particular thing that a good questioner might be interested in is that the Gambling Tax Board has applied for the same NGO Eesti Eestkoosteerimine, to investigate and explain the situation of guardians in Estonia and their knowledge. I believe that the Gambling Tax Council will approve this request and we will get a nice view of it in the first half of next year or in the second quarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U37	Jaak Allik, first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U38	Minister, thank you very much. After this show, I have received several other letters from Narva about the work of the Social Security Office. At the same time, the deputy mayor of Narva said that social work is a job where people do not understand that it is good for them, it is such a specific sphere that he does not allow journalists or politicians to stick their noses in, but forbids his subordinates to comment on anything. All we can do is rely on the Ministry of Social Affairs. I ask once again: does the Ministry see among its tasks the obligation to be informed about social work in local governments and to control the social work of local governments, or does the Ministry consider that the state and municipalities are completely separate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U39	Thank you. Let's look at this situation a little bit on the human side. For a person, a relationship with a municipality or a ministry is certainly treated as a relationship between a state and a citizen. We must take into account that social work has initially been one of the important tasks of local government and that social organisation will certainly remain the responsibility of the municipality in the future. It is the municipality that communicates best with people on the ground. The employees of the municipality are the ones who know the local conditions best. The organisation and supervision of custody are, of course, governed by the law and must be complied with by the staff of the Ministry as well as by the employees of the local government. If you look at the Local Government Organisation Act, not only at the Family Law, then the Local Government Organisation Act, a good questioner, certainly knows this, is § 6, which says that the local government organises all the issues of local life, but one paragraph contains precisely social issues. These social issues need to be resolved on the ground and to be good at ensuring that people are adequately served.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U40	Jaak Allik, the second point to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U41	Mr. Minister! I'll ask you more clearly then. If a citizen is not satisfied with the organisation of social work in the local government, can he or she contact the Ministry or the State? Does the state have a function here, or is it the only one that can be approached, a member of the Riigikogu who does not have much opportunity to regulate this sphere?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U42	Thank you, good questioner! Just as as as a member of your Riigikogu, any person who wishes to receive an explanation in a legislative act or in some cases can contact the Ministry and the Minister for explanation. I'm sure they'll answer. If it has a specific complaint concerning an administrative act issued by the municipality or a judgment, it is also possible to refer the matter to the courts. In fact, the Ministry was contacted during this television show. We explained the situation, the possibilities. There was a discussion about a particular person, as well as one person, who wanted to challenge the situation. The possibilities for this are fully created in the Republic of Estonia. If he wants an explanation of the laws or what one or the other institution has to do, we will be happy to share the explanations, and we will interpret the law as well. If he wishes to change the situation, he must turn to the court, because in Estonia things have been arranged in such a way that it is up to the court to decide whether or not to give custody. I would stress one more thing: the court does not have to set up guardianship over the whole person's activities, but it can say that the guardian deals, for example, with financial matters only or only with care matters. In this sense, the judicial system in Estonia has been given the opportunity to regulate it. I very much hope that the Estonian judges will look very seriously at all the applications that come to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U43	Now two issues registered on the spot. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U44	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! As the Ministry of Social Affairs also commented on the case of Narva, as an example, you are certainly familiar with it. My question is: did the City Government of Narva behave in any way wrong or illegal in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U45	Thank you. We have received explanations from Narva and we have tried to get to know the situation. According to this, there was no breach of the law. The offence would have been the case if the City Government of Narva had gone to the court to ask for custody in its own name, the municipality could have been the guardian of the contract and then would have delegated it to the municipality. As far as we know, the court appointed a specific person as guardian, and the city of Narva had a contract with that particular person. It's being done. The court still appointed a specific person, which did not give rise to any breach of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U46	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U47	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You have already mentioned that it is possible to determine either full or only substantive custody, in certain cases only financial custody. You are certainly well aware that, in the case of children, including children with disabilities, there has been a serious problem that if the court accidentally or deliberately fails to define this so-called full custody, there may be a paradoxical situation in which some people take care of the child, but the financial support paid for the disability is provided by the parent who does not actually deal with the child. Have you looked at this complex in the ministry and planned to train judges to reduce the number of cases like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U48	Thank you. When the new family law came into force in 2010, the Ministry of Justice organised a special training course for judges, as I recall. As the provisions on custody also changed, the possibility of using a legal person was added, so there was also a question of custody. I very much hope that if the NGO in the Gambling Tax Board finds support for the application for the Estonian EASO order, we will get a better picture of what this change has brought with it. When it comes to the estimated opinion of the same non-profit organisation, they say that one person could have up to 30 custody depending on the extent of the problems. It certainly needs to be appreciated. But in this sense, the judges still have the subjective right to decide that cannot be taken away from the judge. It is up to the judge whether he invites a representative of the municipality to the appointment of guardianship, whether he invites neighbors or anyone else, so that the right person is appointed as guardian on the most appropriate scale. Of course, the court can make its decisions from the data it has been given. If false statements are made to the court or if there is insufficient information, if someone is wrestling, the result may be that someone is being harmed. My appeal to the local authorities is that if they are involved in the process of determining custody, then things must still be said the way things are. The applicant for custody must also make sure that the scope of custody is correct and that the guardian appointed is the best one.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U49	Thank you. I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U50	Let's move on to question four. The fourth question is asked by Yana Toom, member of the Riigikogu, Jaak Aaviksoo, a member of the government, and the subject is the language of instruction in schools. Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! My question is due to the desire to agree on the use of terms, if that is possible, by speaking about the problem of the language of instruction. The Ministry, speaking of schools that have applied for permission to study in Russian, uses words such as 'exception' and 'deferral' again and again, although, if we read Article 21 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, we do not read the exception, but the choice, and we do not read the extension, because there is no deadline at all. Do you agree with me that the words 'exception' and 'extension' are legally inaccurate in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U52	Thank you, good questioner! The language of instruction is regulated by § 21 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which states that the language of instruction at the Upper Secondary School is Estonian. Other languages may also be used in municipal upper secondary schools or in individual classes. The Government of the Republic shall grant permission for instruction in another language or for bilingual studies at the request of a municipality or city council. Such a proposal is made to the municipality or city council on the basis of the school development plan. From this sentence, 'The language of upper secondary school education is Estonian', I conclude that it is a general rule. The following sentences provide an opportunity to provide for another language as a language of instruction. Therefore, after such a decision, the procedure laid down in that section constitutes an exception to the general rule, although the word 'exception' does not apply. The law also does not concern the issue of the granting of an indefinite or fixed-term authorisation. I interpret it in such a way that this decision falls within the competence of the Government of the Republic on the basis of the facts and reasons given in the request. The Ministry of Education and Research, when submitting two applications from local governments to the Government of the Republic, was based on these arguments. The Government of the Republic considered it justified to grant this authorisation, different from the general rule, to three schools, including for a limited period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U53	Question number one, Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U54	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Are you familiar with the next thing? Why do I doubt you're familiar with this? I recently listened to your interview on Radio 4, where there was also such a sentence that you do not understand the schools that fight against the Estonian language. So, the question: are you aware that all schools that have applied exclusively for Russian-language education are already teaching at least 30% of subjects in Estonian at upper secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U55	Yes, I am aware that most schools have managed well with the transition to education in Estonian. Moreover, they have not applied for a teaching permit in any other language or for exceptions either for an indefinite period or for a fixed period. It seems to me that the cooperation that has developed between the Ministry of Education and Research and these schools has been constructive and good. At the same time, I have also heard at private meetings views that contrast Estonian and Russian. I regret this confrontation and hope that it will be possible to rule out such confrontations in the future, in cooperation between the Ministry of Education and schools and, hopefully, with the constructive support of local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U56	Yana Toom, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U57	Thank you. In the framework of the My Country project, school students attend quite often in the Riigikogu. I had a meeting with 9th grade students at Ahtme Gymnasium. Next year, the upper secondary school will be transferred to Estonian-language education, they will study in Estonian, but they will not speak that language at all. I know you've had meetings in schools. Do you also plan to go to a school where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that this problem is up very acutely? I ask you to continue with your previous answer: do you agree with me that submitting such an application does not mean fighting against the Estonian language for the Russian gymnasium?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U58	This argument is exhaustively set out in these requests. The Ministry of Education and Research has analysed the applications and made appropriate proposals for decision within the Government of the Republic. I have never mentioned the fight against the Estonian language in this motion. With regard to the unfortunate information about young people studying at Ahtme School who do not speak Estonian at all when they reach the ninth grade, I think it is worth looking at how such an output has been able to complete the comprehensive school curriculum. I'm sure I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U59	Let us now go to the issues registered on the ground. Raivo Järvi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U60	Thank you very much. I will ask the Minister for Education a general question. To what extent is this subject currently being raised a precedent on the scale of the European Union? We know that among the Member States there are those who used to be our destiny mates.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U61	Thank you. I believe that the situation that has arisen for complex historical reasons, where the general education system not only works in the national language but also, to a significant extent, in other or other languages, is quite exceptional, both in Europe and in the world. National language learning is considered not so much a political but a socio-economic issue through which the fuller integration into socio-economic life of all citizens and people living in the territory of the country is ensured. I consider it appropriate to refer to a study recently carried out at Tallinn University in this hall, which, in addition to other parameters, looked at the livelihood of persons from Russian-speaking and Estonian-speaking families in Estonian society, including remuneration. There is a very clear correlation between national language skills and the pay gap. This gap, regrettably, exists not only between people speaking in Estonian and Russian, but also, for example, about the different incomes of men and women. I believe that scientific research data once again indicate that, in an important part, national language learning is intended to support young people who, through the acquisition of the national language, increase their livelihood and competitiveness in Estonian society. This is the case in other countries. These principles and, above all, the interests of the students themselves, have also been the focus of the Ministry of Education and Research, while preserving the opportunity for these people of different ethnic backgrounds to learn their own language and culture in Estonian general education schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U62	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Changes in the field of education, whether smaller or larger, will certainly have a very long-term impact. Listening to your answers about the school network, I got the impression that you are very good at the subject and that you are justifying things correctly. But one thing makes me light a red lamp. You were Minister of Education 15 years ago and then explained very well why less doctors need to be prepared at the University of Tartu, 70 instead of 200. Now there's a situation where we don't have doctors. But the question is, how long have you predicted all these things so that we wouldn't be in front of a broken trough in 10 to 15 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U64	Thank you. As regards the preparation of specialists with higher education, this is, however, under the University Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act, in particular within the competence of the Ministry of Education and Research, who consults different authorities when submitting a public training order. It is known that there are quite large margins between public expectations or interests and the choices made by students or student candidates. More specifically, the lack of employees in several occupations and professions is certainly not only a result of the problems of the education system. Working conditions, wages and a number of other factors determine the choices that young people, or those who are already in employment, can make in view of the job perspective. People from several specialties have left Estonia for various reasons, but mostly for professional reasons, and have sought applications in the countries of the immediate world or beyond. To solve these problems solely through higher education or vocational education is to carry water, at least partially, with a sieve. I very much hope that the issues of preparation and employment of nurses and doctors, as well as teachers, welders and representatives of several other professions, will be the subject of a more comprehensive and complex analysis than merely raising figures in the public training order line. As far as doctors are concerned, however, the number of doctors in Estonia has not fallen drastically, but has rather increased. I hope that with the existing medical team it will be possible at least satisfactorily, but hopefully at a good level to care for the needs of the Estonian health care system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U65	Thank you! I'm going to finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U66	Let's move on to question five. It has been submitted by Rannar Vassilyev, a member of the Riigikogu, and is answered by Hanno Pevkur, a member of the Government of the Republic. The subject is the situation of general hospitals. Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U67	Thank you. Good minister! The Auditor General was quite critical of the retardation of hospital reform in the 'Seak in Health' chapter of his review. Is the continuation of the concept of optimising the hospital network still on the agenda, and in this light, what is the perspective of general hospitals? Are they going to continue active treatment, or are they going to become nursing hospitals?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U68	Thank you. I say to the Auditor General and also to you that there is certainly nothing retarded in this sense. If we look at the development plan for the hospital network, which was adopted at the time, and the plan 'Estonian Hospital Master Plan 2015' with the Swedes, we will see that all the big decisions have been made. If you stick to the finger, you can say that we have not yet reached the bed occupancy or the number of beds foreseen in the development plan, but we are moving in that direction. Similarly, as far as the profile of hospitals is concerned, the so-called bigger questions are only in the maternity department of Põlva and Rapla. Rapla's made up his mind, let's see how the Põlva goes. If you're asking about general hospitals, it's not a question for me of what we call an institution, whether it's a local hospital, a general hospital, or a central hospital. For me, the question is, what kind of service can you get in one hospital building or another? What we call it doesn't matter at all. If you ask about general hospitals in this sense, as we know them now, then they will certainly retain active treatment. These visions of the future, which are looking forward for a long time, show that access to health care at the county centre must be guaranteed every day and every day, which means that care treatment alone is not enough. I'm sure there'll be some kind of active therapy left. In the long term, we must certainly look at the services that one hospital or another receives. These discussions are still ongoing in the Ministry. I have invited all hospital managers to sit down in order to discuss this subject further, including the audit of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U69	Thank you! The first question to be specified, Rannar Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U70	Thank you. You mentioned hospital services. As a Western virulent, I have a general hospital in particular, namely AS Rakvere Hospital. As we know, there were problems with the pediatrician at the beginning of the year. At the time, you promised quick solutions. I quote: 'The solution is to find a pediatrician at Rakvere Hospital with a part-time load and bring in a young resident. ' On the question of whether you could find a solution before the elections, you answered: 'I would like to hope that there is a question here in weeks or weeks, not six or two. Surely this solution must come, even temporarily. " As far as I know, there is no pediatrician at Rakvere Hospital right now. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U71	Thank you for your question. Ask Rain Sepping, the head of the hospital. This knowledge, which was at the time, was in many ways based on what the hospital manager said and on what opportunities we had at the time. At that time, negotiations were held with both the University of Tartu and specifically with a couple of pediatricians who had to go to the hospital for work. What was said at that moment was the best knowledge of the moment. When it comes to whether and how to proceed more generally with Rakvere Hospital, it must be said that there is a great deal to be done here by Rakvere Hospital itself, as well as by the owners of Rakvere Hospital, or all the municipalities of Lääne-Virumaa. The first big question, of course, is how to build a care complex where plans have changed. You, as a man of Rakvere, know very well that at first there was a plan to clean up the yellow house, renovate it, but now it is said that this house will be taken down and a new one built. The construction prices for the construction of the new building are, of course, higher than those for the renovation project. Now the owners have to decide whether only care treatment is provided or whether additional services are provided, as proposed by the hospital administration. What will happen in the future also depends very much on it. Speaking of the pediatrician, there is no problem if Rakvere Hospital wants, for example, mediation or assistance from us and the University of Tartu. We're ready for this. As for directing the university and the pediatricians, I have briefly talked with the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu about the possibilities of taking the residency to general hospitals. Work on this is continuing so that we can, for example, organise a part-time residency in general hospitals, including Rakvere Hospital. It could link young doctors more to hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U72	The second point to be specified, Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U73	Thank you. In itself, it is extremely nice for people to become wiser in time. I understand that if, before the elections, the issue of pediatricians was solved within the limits of the Minister's powers or his powers, then it is no longer, now it is a hospital concern. But I also have a specific question: at the time, before the elections, you found the time and opportunity to go to Rakvere Hospital to deal with this problem quickly...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U74	Good questioner! I'm sorry, I'm interrupting! I have a request to members of the Riigikogu and also to guests to switch mobile phones to a quiet regime. I'm sorry I got involved! Please give the questioner 20 seconds extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U75	Have you been to Rakvere Hospital since the election to solve the pediatrician problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U76	Thank you. You don't always have to be there to solve one problem or another. It may be that matters can be resolved more quickly by telephoneing the Ministry and communicating with people. As I said, there's gonna be a meeting with all the hospital executives in the coming weeks. That's where I'm gonna see Rain Sepping again. Once again, at the time, it was the best possible knowledge. As for whether I go to general hospitals, I do. Recently, I went to Ida-Virumaa and I plan to go to other hospitals. The order in which I go or how I go is not worth looking for any election topics. Of course, when we talk about family doctors, this is not just a problem in Lääne-Virumaa. Similarly, the issue of one doctor or another at a general hospital is not just a problem in Lääne-Virumaa. It became a matter for journalists and local people there. Of course I dealt with it. I've dealt with other issues in other hospitals. Similarly, we can talk about the tomographer of Hiiumaa Hospital. This isn't my constituency, so it's like I don't have to deal with the tomographer at Hiiumaa Hospital. But look, I'm on it! This is the task of the Minister to deal with various concerns. We hope that a solution will be found. As I said, we will continue to agree to go there with advice and force. It is not a hospital problem alone, but it is clear that the contract is concluded and that the hospital is directly responsible for looking for employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U77	Now let's go to the issues registered on the ground. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! From the hospitals, we came to the doctors, which makes sense. The minister who is currently next door said that doctors in Estonia will continue, their number will be good or sufficient. How do you feel about whether there will be doctors in Estonia or not, if there are 40 areas without a family doctor, in many places family doctors will have to work outside their own area, and in very many hospitals there will be a shortage of specialised doctors?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U79	Thanks for asking. If you look at the European average, we have plenty of doctors. The question is where they work and which regions they are mainly in. We know that our main areas are Tallinn, Tartu and also central hospitals. Apart from Ida-Virumaa, there is actually no great concern in central hospitals with doctors, in Pärnu and Tallinn. Of course, this has to be dealt with, just as every profession has to do with growth planning. As far as family doctors are concerned, I would recommend that you come to a public hearing tomorrow at the Special Committee on State Budget Control, where primary health care is widely and thoroughly discussed. I don't think it's wise to fit all this in one minute right now. There will be a long public debate, then we will talk further.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U80	The second issue registered on the spot. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! When you answered Rannar, you briefly touched on the subject of Hiiumaa. As a result, I have a question: can you enlighten us on the state of the computer tomography in Hiiumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U82	Thank you. I'm assuming that Hiiumaa's CT scanner is somewhere in the factory being assembled. Hiiumaa Hospital hasn't tendered yet. But, of course, if the Estonian people have collected money for this, then the state will try to come to the aid and allocate the missing amount. I proposed that these funds be found in the course of the 2011 budget revision. Everything is moving in the direction that, if the Riigikogu approves the change of budget for 2011, Hiiumaa Hospital will be able to launch a competition or a so-called less bid to get a CT scanner. I'm happy to say it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U83	Thank you! I'm going to finish the question. Good fellows! Thank you for asking! Good members of the government! Thank you for your answer! Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U84	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good afternoon. We will begin the fifth working week session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, when we spoke to the Auditor General and read his report, we learned that there is a lack of clarity about energy. In this context, we have some questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Narva plans to build two new oil shale power plant blocks with an estimated total cost of EUR 1 billion. This investment does not pay off because it makes the price of oil shale energy too high. The government has been looking for ways to put taxpayers' money there. The first test clearly qualified as State aid because State aid is State aid and cannot be interpreted in two ways. Now they want to go to another test with CO2 quotas, which are exactly the same tangible instrument as any other investment. Like the Auditor General and many others, we have great doubts as to whether such an opportunity exists at all. At the same time, the investment has been made, and the money we all share can burn up in this construction. That is why we want to know from Juhan Parts how he intends to secure this investment because, in addition to everything, he has promised Jüri Käo, Chairman of the Estonian Energy Council, that even if the European Commission does not allow the use of CO2 quotas, the state will give this money. We want to know from the Minister where the money comes from and whether it makes sense to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U86	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing. Good fellows! Let's move on to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Jersey on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, initiated on 17 October, of which the commission is the Finance Commission; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the prevention of double taxation and amending the Agreement on the prevention of tax evasion, signed in Singapore on 18 September 2006, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has decided to change the Government of the Republic. a On 28 September, the law on the temporary organisation of the payment of salaries relating to the average salary in Estonia, the law on the salaries of senior civil servants, the laws relating to the transfer of the Courts' Accounting Centre to the area of government of the Ministry of Finance, the State Budget Act and the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and related other laws (101 SE) have been initiated and have appointed the Constitutional Commission as the new Chief Commission. I believe that all my fellow officials will join me if I wish these leading committees the strength to deal with the drafts. Now we're going to do a presence check. 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 30.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U87	On today's agenda, we also have some clarification. The discussion of the draft of the Riigikogu's resolution 'Accepting the State's summary report for the financial year 2010', submitted by the Government of the Republic, remained yesterday, when Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, answered the questions. So I ask again the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester! Inara Luis left the question unanswered. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U88	Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I've forgotten what I specifically had to ask for, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U89	I can help you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U90	... I ask you the kind of thing that was mentioned in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. How will the guarantees granted by the Estonian state be transferred to the state budget, whether they will be our liabilities in the future and how will these obligations be interpreted when the Estonian state encounters difficulties and the Estonian state goes to take out the loan itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U91	Thank you. Actually, you didn't have that question. When I spoke to you later in the hallway, you had a completely different question, it had to do with Peter Võsa's follow-up question. But it's okay. Maybe you can ask for it. In fact, there was no specific discussion in the Commission on how guarantees and liabilities are transferred to the state budget, to the state balance sheet. Although it was not mentioned, I will try to give you an answer as I see it. All our loan liabilities should be included in the balance sheet. If there are guarantees, I think there are guarantees, at least that is the case with business companies, off-balance sheet liabilities. Perhaps this could be clarified, given the great guarantee of the EFSF that has just been adopted. This topic could certainly be explained to us in writing by the Ministry. But it seems to me that this is an off-balance sheet obligation. Logic says that hardly our potential loan commitment would automatically change exactly the same order of magnitude in the issue of a two-billion-dollar guarantee. When we talk specifically about the EFSF, we may add that at the moment we made this two billion commitment, we did not actually have an obligation yet. As you will remember, if new countries are to emerge, we must come back to this Chamber and discuss it, and it is only at this point that we will have real guarantees. It's kind of a two-filter system. At that point, we did not actually put the money, or at least the guarantee, into effect. But that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U92	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Was the Auditor General or his representative present in the debate on this item in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and was his position on this item as positive as yesterday when he advised us all to be in favour of the 2010 consolidated report with two hands?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U94	Thank you. In my presentation yesterday, I tried to stick to the presentation of the Commission's debate. I also announced and repeat to those who were not in this Chamber yesterday that, true story, Auditor General Mihkel Oviir was on our committee on 17 October. In addition to him was present throughout his team, there were different field leaders. He gave an overview of a number of problems. It coincided with what he said in the hall yesterday. The questions submitted to the Auditor General did not specifically concern the labelling of possible guarantees in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U95	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I call on the chair as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of my colleague, Mrs Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U96	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, While the summary of the annual financial report deals with the current global and European crisis, including Estonia, as a challenge that will soon be overcome, this is unengulfed and fair when it comes to the possible deterioration of the situation and the unhealthy situation that the financial crisis in the euro area has actually led to us as a village treat. Against this background, we must evaluate what has been done and reflect on possible future developments. If the consolidated annual report for 2010 reflects the changeover to the euro as a great result and the accompanying recognition, we must admit to ourselves that the relatively high standard of living of the kroon has been abducted by the depressing price increase, which is staring back at every price sign. I think we have already forgotten that before the changeover, the slogan 'The price of the euro will not increase' had to ensure price stability. Now we can say that the coming of the euro woke up even the most sleepy price scales and put the economy to life by its will. We have the euro, we have a balanced budget that meets the criteria, we have a lower public debt than we promised, does that mean that we are doing well? For a long time, Estonia has been making efforts and pushing into the club of the so-called wealthier countries. Last year confirmed our full membership of the OECD. What measurable benefits, however, has it benefited our country and what measurable benefits has it benefited a common person, such as in Southeast Estonia? Statistics showed the first signs of recovery in 2010 and expressed hope that the economic situation would improve. In order to ensure the financial stability of the euro area countries, the signature of the Minister of Finance for the establishment of the EFSF confirmed that, together with the recovery, a commitment has been made to share its success with other euro area countries. However, it is erroneously pointed out in the summary report of the financial year that Estonia's accession to the EFSF will be decided by the Riigikogu. This time, the Riigikogu remained well out of this decision-making game. The Riigikogu was not even a protagonist in this game, but literally a spectator who was given the right to applaud. The Riigikogu did not decide to join the fund; the Riigikogu did not ratify the Treaty, as the Prime Minister has mistakenly said in the speech chair of the Riigikogu, and the Riigikogu did not discuss the content of the agreement, but only approved the granting of guarantees to the financial body, the so-called private company, the public limited company. The summary report of the financial year clearly states that each specific loan payment guaranteed by Estonia will be included in the calculation of Estonian public debt. That is something we must certainly take into account in the future. 2010 brought us a commitment to participate in the future European Stability Mechanism, where we are going to make real contributions, already amounting to EUR 149 million. The use of the reserve of the Government of the Republic could also be considered in the summary report. The report shall only show the name, order number and purpose of the receiving institution, as well as the amounts allocated, used and carried over to the following year, but the annual report may describe in more detail what is being done for the allocations, for which the allocations were used and why the allocations are not used in part. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U97	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U98	In 2010, the use of the emergency reserve of the State Pension Fund was also completed. As regards figures, at the beginning of 2009, the pension fund had a surplus of EEK 4,784 billion, of which EUR 2,926 billion was spent. As at the beginning of 2010, the reserve balance was 1,858 billion, which was used in 2010, so the reserve balance remained at zero. The consolidated report should focus more on the content of the use of reserves in the future and explain which transactions with reserves were made. In line with the Kyoto Protocol to the UNFCCC, the country also started selling allowances. A total of 11 agreements were concluded on the basis of which allowances were sold for EEK 2.476 billion. Money received from the sale of allowances may be used under contracts only for environmental projects identified in the contract. Unfortunately, however, the people in this Chamber do not have an overview of how agreements were reached, whether emission allowances are also a notional asset and whether they are conditionally adapted to the legal aspects of the sale of state assets. This is, of course, not reflected in the consolidated annual report. When we asked the Minister of Finance yesterday for information on this, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi said that he would certainly find something on Internet sites somewhere. In 2010, the in-kind contributions of AS Riigi Kinnisvara amounted to 58 million kroons and AS Hoolekandeteenused amounted to 7 million kroons. In 2010, the state of Estonia bought Estonian Energia from OÜ Elering, paying 2.7 billion Estonian kroons for it. By the end of the year, Elering made an additional financial contribution to OÜ amounting to EEK 91 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Unfortunately, there is no information in the financial year's recapitulative statement about what was done for this money. I would like to stress that, although there are no explanations in the paper summary report, at least in the electronic report, there could be references to the homepages of ministries from which we can read all expenditure reports and data on transactions. But what did the Riigikogu do? In 2010, the Riigikogu adopted 163 legal acts, 210 inquiries were submitted to the executive authorities and 67 written questions were submitted and more than 30 public sittings of the Riigikogu Committee were held. So the strength to work for all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U99	Thank you, Mr Luigas. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting 91 amendments on 24 October. 6 p.m. First reading of Bill 91 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U100	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please waitress Deniss Borodichi, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The drafting of the draft act was due to the need to bring the surveillance activities of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will be in force on 1 January 2012, into line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ratified by Estonia and the internationally recognised principles resulting from the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and mandatory for Member States to comply. The regulation adopted and coming into force gives unduly wide powers to the prosecutor's office. According to the author of the law, it seeks to ensure better protection of people's rights, but it actually jeopardises people's right to privacy. Since surveillance activities are particularly intensively interfering with the fundamental rights of individuals, there must be a clear legitimate reason for this to happen and therefore it cannot be allowed that the prosecutor's office grants a simplified authorisation for surveillance activities. Any start of surveillance activities must be justified and have the least possible effect on the constitutional rights of persons. The European Court of Human Rights allows surveillance activities to be carried out by way of exception in criminal matters of general concern and only after it has been carefully considered by the court or other independent authority. As regards the prosecutor, the Supreme Court has stated that in the Estonian legal order, this official does not meet the characteristics of an institution with independent and impartial powers of justice as described in Article 6 of the International Convention, which is a prerequisite for the effective protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. According to § 1 of the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Public Prosecutor's Office is a government body governed by the Ministry of Justice, which has not been granted jurisdiction. Therefore, a prosecutor's review cannot replace judicial review of breaches of fundamental rights and freedoms. Consequently, the first objective of our proposed draft law is to leave the authorisation of surveillance activities solely under the jurisdiction of the court. This means that the use of a police agent is no longer subject to the authorisation of the prosecutor's office when this law is adopted, as provided for by the law in force, but, in accordance with international principles, the permission of an independent institution, the court, is required. As a result of the first amendment, the second amendment is to set up a panel of experts at the Court whose task, in order to reduce the burden of the judges and to avoid the superficial authorisation of surveillance activities, is to examine in advance the application of the prosecutor's office specifically for the authorisation of the investigative measure and to draw up an opinion for the sole discretion of the investigating judge. The amendment is driven by the considerable workload of judges and the need to ensure the legitimacy of the authorisation granted for the surveillance exercise and the least possible interference with the fundamental rights of the individual. I will continue on the subject of strong interference with the fundamental rights of a person. Our third important amendment concerns the regulation of arrest, which is laid down in the current law through a maximum period of detention, which is up to six months. We are of the opinion that this time is too long, and since there is no more precise regulation on what is happening at that time, given, inter alia, the strong interference of the fundamental rights of the person resulting from it, it is necessary to rewrite this period more precisely. Article 5 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which I mentioned and ratified by Estonia, explicitly states that no one can be deprived of his or her freedom, except in accordance with the procedure laid down by law. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (c) of the same Article, one of these cases is lawful arrest or detention in order to bring a person before the competent judicial authority reasonably suspected of an offence or to prevent, where justified, the commission or escape of the offence after that. With regard to the foregoing, the Convention states that any arrested or detained person shall be immediately brought before a judge or any other official having legal personality and shall have the right to legal proceedings within a reasonable period of time or to release until the case is discussed. In addition, anyone who has been deprived of liberty by arrest or detention shall have the right to apply for a procedure whereby the court decides promptly on the legality of his or her detention and arranges for his or her release if the detention is illegal. As a result of the above, it is important to provide for an arrest procedure that takes as much account as possible of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person and allows the arrestee to ascertain as a matter of urgency the legality of his detention. Our amendment provides for an initial arrest of up to 10 days, which can be extended to one month by the investigating judge upon reasoned request. The extension shall then be granted, upon reasoned request, by the investigating judge for a period of one month until the expiry of the six-month period. A short period of detention affects the fundamental rights of a person less than half a year in custody and, at the same time, motivates the investigative authority to act quickly to find sufficient evidence to confirm suspicions and to allow prosecution. It is also noteworthy that any long period of time does not mean effective action, but rather allows for some time not to deal with it, which is an obvious obstacle to the fundamental rights of a person and which must not be allowed in the rule of law. The fourth objective is to eliminate the contradictions with the Constitution with regard to the notification of a surveillance operation. A few months ago, the Chancellor of Justice analysed the compliance of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Surveillance Act with the Constitution, which allows the person to be informed of the conduct of a surveillance act that violated his rights. According to law, the person against whom the act has been committed, such as the suspect, and the person whose family or private life has been compromised by the pursuit, such as the interview partner of the person being eavesdropped, must be informed of the pursuit. With the permission of the prosecutor or the head of the intelligence agency, the notification of the surveillance operation may be postponed, inter alia, in order to prevent the damage to criminal proceedings, the facilitation of crime and the damage to surveillance activities. Therefore, the principle of immediate notification of a surveillance operation applies and, in the event of a postponement of the notification, the person must be informed afterwards as soon as the reasons preventing such notification cease to exist. The State also intervenes in the private sphere of a person by using and maintaining surveillance activities as secret collections of personal data and may violate a person's various rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution: family and private privacy, the right to message secrecy, home integrity, as well as the right to informational self-determination, which means that a person can decide for himself whether and to what extent the data concerning him or her is being processed. According to the Constitution, a person has the right to have access to data on him or her held in a state or local government institution in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Act. It is important, first, to inform a person of an act of a State which violates his or her rights and is secretly committed in accordance with the principle of human dignity, second, because it creates the possibility for a person to exercise judicial remedies in order to protect his or her rights. If the person is not informed of the pursuit, the person cannot defend his or her rights, including apply to the courts. In doing so, the rights and freedoms of a person may be violated either in the pursuit of a surveillance operation or in the storage, use or other processing of information obtained by a surveillance operation. It is therefore important to notify the person in order to avoid undue use of surveillance activities. However, the regulation that will enter into force in January is contrary to the Constitution in this respect. Consequently, the fourth objective is to eliminate this inconsistency with the Constitution in terms of information. Now for objective five. It is not the prosecutor's office, but the independent body, or court, that must supervise the compliance of surveillance activities with the law. According to the law adopted, the prosecutor's office is granted the right to supervise itself, which is not legitimate in the exercise of supervision. Since the draft idea is to eliminate the right of the prosecutor's office to issue permissions for surveillance activities, the prosecutor's office can no longer supervise here either. It would also be unreasonable for the prosecutor's office to supervise the licences issued by the court. In summary, as initiators of the draft, we see a positive impact in strengthening the regulation of surveillance activities, particularly for people whose fundamental rights are seriously violated by surveillance activities. It is also important to value the role of the court as an independent judge. I appeal to you: if these constitutional and European Court of Human Rights principles are also important and important to you, then I invite you to a constructive debate during this draft procedure. We discuss, we process and, if necessary, we make amendments to the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U102	Thank you very much, Mr Borodich. You have a question. Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You had a pretty thorough explanation. But don't you think you've probably snatched a bit too big for yourself in the group to prepare this draft? I am thinking of changing the regulation of surveillance activities. This is currently being dealt with by a rather important expert committee and the regulation they are developing should be much wider than the one you are producing here. As regards the second part of the draft, which deals with the deadlines for arrest, a certain complexion at such a shortened deadline certainly does. But doesn't this initial ten days and after a month's extension seem like too much chopping to you? It certainly may not contribute to criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U104	Thank you. These principles are important to our party, to our group, and that is why we came up with this bill. As far as specific deadlines are concerned, for example, as regards the barrier you mentioned, we are an open party and our aim is constructive cooperation. If you think these deadlines are not reasonable, and you have a better idea, then we will discuss it, we will take the draft to second reading, and maybe a better mechanism will happen in our cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U105	No further questions. Thank you once again, Mr Borodich. I call Valdo Randpere, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U106	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this issue at its meeting on 10 October 2011. I fully understand that for Deniss and the Centre Party these questions are close to the heart, but we concentrated on the next. Firstly, in the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, this amendment would increase the workload of the courts completely in vain and excessively. This is not feasible, and so the speed and operationality of the courts in this area would be lost. The draft law introduced a completely new concept of the 'Committee of Experts'. That is an interesting point, but the Committee of Experts has not been described or set out anywhere, nor has it been done in this draft. No one could even take a stand about how it was created, how it was put to work, how it was financed. Markko Künnapu, Adviser to the Department of Criminal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, also took part in our committee meeting. Deniss Borodich was, of course, there to report the matter himself. One of the points we discussed was the same subject of arrest. We discussed whether it is right to arrest for six months, as the law currently provides, or whether it is more appropriate to have the arrest for ten days at first and then, if necessary, to extend this period. In fact, the law currently provides that six months is maximum, that time may also be shorter. In addition, individuals will in any case be able to request a verification of the merits of their arrest also within this six-month period. There was also a list of urgent cases, which we considered to be completely illogical. In addition to everything that has happened since this meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, a working group on legal regulation of surveillance activities has been convened since March on the initiative of the Ministry of Justice. It includes representatives from the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu, the Data Protection Inspectorate, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Estonian Bar Association, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and our own Legal Affairs Committee and the Constitutional Committee. The aim is to discuss this whole area in a complex way. We are not denying that some of the points that were in the draft law are possible in some respects against the Constitution or in some respects with questions of interpretation. However, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we considered that this working group should be given time and opportunities to come up with a complex solution and to take all regulation at once, not to tear out parts one by one. In addition, the draft concerns, to a large extent, not the existing law, but the law that was due to apply from 1 January. This week, the Ministry of Justice has come up with a proposal to postpone the law for a year, precisely so that this working group can do its job and can also train people according to how the new system and procedures will look. Based on these facts, we voted in the Commission and came to the following conclusion: the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to interrupt the first reading (by 5, against 3 members of the Commission). That is our proposal: not to stop reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U107	Excuse me, dear colleague. The first reading cannot be interrupted, the draft can be rejected. It was a rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U108	I'm sorry! Our proposal is to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U109	Thank you very much, Mr Randpere. You have questions. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U110	Thank you. You said that adopting this bill as a law would create unnecessary additional obligations for the courts. Do you think it is pointless to comply with the Estonian Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U111	No, I do not think it would be pointless to comply with the Estonian Constitution. But on the other hand, we also asked what this problem is, how many cases there have been in the past year that should be regulated under this new law, and whether there have been any problems. In fact, no problems have been identified. The adoption of the law would simply mean that the courts should either start gathering themselves for every small decision or, as proposed in the draft, gather a panel of experts, which, however, has in no way been possible to interpret or define. We did not see a direct practical point in this matter. However, as far as this whole area is concerned, there is another amendment, which is in the next draft tabled by the other party. This problem, in principle, partly coincides with the problem set out in this draft; the issue is the same. Since there is a working group on regulatory analysis of surveillance activities, we would leave them the opportunity to take all these questions at once and come up with a complex solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U112	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good colleague! You said the Ministry was working on this subject and there were working groups working on the subject of surveillance. You also praised the Central Party's bill, saying that there are several points that could be accepted. If so many working groups deal with this topic, would it not be wise to leave the Central Party bill in Riigikogu proceedings, not to reject it at first reading, and later to join, agree, discuss and do with others' proposed draft laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U114	It's a question of methodology. You're suggesting that we start solving this piece by piece and leaving things in the process. At the same time, the working group wants to come up with a holistic solution, which I have read part of the work of this working group, which also covers the issues that you have proposed in your draft. The only objection to further addressing these issues is that the working group will come up with a comprehensive solution, and we do not have any point in plotting it. The legal system is usually not so simple that you lift out one part, but everything else remains the same. If you're gonna change something, you're gonna have to watch how it affects the whole, so we don't have to start making it after the next change because something is affected by this first change.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U115	Please, Mr Linde, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You rightly indicated that the law provided for the possibility of arresting for up to six months. I am certainly not a fan of this draft, but I ask: has the Committee on Legal Affairs done or is it planning to do, or is it asking the prosecutor's office or the Ministry of Justice for an analysis of how this deadline is currently being used in criminal matters, whether it is arrested for up to six months, or whether it is usually the six-month deadline that applies exactly? How well-founded can that be, in constitutional terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U117	This issue was not directly discussed by the Commission. While some members of the Commission argued that there are problems at the moment, there are not always intensive investigations during this six-month period, but no factual or statistical material was provided to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U118	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U119	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I didn't understand what you were saying. At some point you said that the problem is not that the number of such cases is close to zero, but on the other hand there are problems. It was said in passing, but the question is this. This is not the first time the opposition has come up with some kind of bill, and then we get the answer that you will solve this problem later and complexly. This, of course, is, as you rightly said, a question of methodology. But if you're being quite sincere, don't you think this complex solution could delay things for years?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U120	One of the reasons why we came to this conclusion was that this group has reached the end of its work. In fact, we are no longer talking about the years, not even the months, but about the weeks during which this group will come with its proposal and when it will be processed and discussed. Our understanding could be that since a large part of the law that you wanted to amend will not enter into force anyway (there is also a need to postpone entry into force by a year), if we are able to adopt these changes in a complex way in the first quarter of next year and regulate surveillance activities, there would be time to provide training for those institutions that will have to take this into account in the future. The law could then enter into force on 1 January 2013. It's not some blurry promise that ever in the future. The result we're talking about is really close.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U121	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U122	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I was hurt by your reply as if the questions we are discussing today were just the heart of the Centre Party. I don't quite agree with that. I believe that the state is obliged to protect people's fundamental rights and freedoms, including the right to the integrity and good name of the person. The rights and freedoms of a person in a democratic country must also be protected from exaggeration and unjustified accusations by the state apparatus itself. This draft is trying to regulate it very clearly. It is my heart that we do our laws in such a way that they protect people's fundamental rights and freedoms. I think that this debate and discussion are absolutely appropriate. God forbid it would be merely the interest of opposition parties!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U123	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U124	Was there a question? When you asked me why I said it was the heart of the Centre Party, I was just quoting Deniss Borodich's words, who told us how the Centre Party was an open party and that it was very close to the Centre Party's heart. I just understand him.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U125	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U126	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good colleague! You have accidentally proposed that the reading of this draft should be interrupted, but unfortunately the reading can be interrupted at second reading. In view of all this subject matter and the law in force, it would be appropriate to interrupt reading. Did the Commission discuss taking the draft to second reading and then interrupting the reading so that the good ideas that you yourself spoke about would be recorded on paper? Then we can move on from there together. Were you discussing this or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U127	I have to apologize! It is my first time here to report to the Commission. That's why I snapped and said it was a proposal to stop reading. Of course, this was not discussed by the Commission; the Commission was still discussing whether or not to reject the draft. There were 5 members of the Commission in favour of rejection, 3 opposed, although they also showed a certain understanding of why we do so. We were relatively benevolent and understanding in the Commission. We did not cross each other very, very rigidly, because in fact, the aim of the Committee on Legal Affairs is the same: that we have a legal order and that people can be sure that the state does not violate their fundamental rights. It's not like we're fighting it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U128	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Randpere. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Since the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading, we must vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party 63. Please vote! 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 35 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Bill 63 fell out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U129	The first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group begins. Please waitress Andres Anvelt, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U130	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to fix my colleague Valdo Randpere a little bit. This is not an analogous bill, as was the previous draft. Similar is only the title "Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code'. The content of the draft is, in fact, an improvement in the error of our legislation. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which is the basis for our legislation, adopted in 1992, states very clearly: 'Everyone has the right to the secret of messages transmitted by him or him by mail, telegraph, telephone or any other public service means. " The following sentence also makes it clear: " With the permission of the court, exceptions may be made in cases and procedures prescribed by law to prevent a crime or to establish the truth in criminal proceedings. " Please note that exceptions can only be granted with the permission of the court. The draft tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party wants to correct the mistake that had originally been made in the Surveillance Act, which provided for police leaders to be granted the right of authorisation in an urgent case. We also want to correct the error in the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which states that the prosecutor's office has the right to make an exception. What matters is what is written in the Constitution. What is important is that the Constitution protects all the citizens of the Republic of Estonia and does not make a distinction as to whether the person is suspected or accused at that moment, because he becomes a criminal only after the judgment. This guarantee is provided in the Constitution and this guarantee should be guaranteed by us in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, I think, especially with enthusiasm. We can certainly ask what such a legislative amendment will entail, whether our courts will be able to implement it. We are actually talking about a dozen so-called 'deductible cases' a year. In 2009, there were seven such cases, in 2008, if I am not mistaken, four. In fact, these cases are legible on the fingers of one hand. But that's not the point. The point is, this permission can only be given by a court according to the constitution. I am not going to take the floor on the presentation of the Commission sitting, which is what my colleague Valdo Randpere is doing, but there was a question in the committee about the expenditure involved in the draft, which is also covered in the draft explanatory memorandum. Our group has argued that there will be no expenditure on this draft. There was an objection that judges would have to work every day and every day. It's not like that. The draft provides an opportunity to grant this authorisation in a way that would be re-presentable after that, in writing as well. Given the level of our e-governance, even us members of the Riigikogu are chosen electronically, the granting of court permission cannot be an additional cost, bearing in mind that these cases are actually less than 10 per year. Speaking of good legislative practice, I would like to remind you that Mr Randpere spoke at the debate on the previous draft about the Justice Commission, which is dealing with this issue. As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it was very interesting for me to monitor how the reports of this working group have changed. The first report considered that the amendment was not necessary to allow a different interpretation of the Constitution. One of the reasons was given by the Supreme Court's decision, which actually spoke of a slightly different matter. Who is interested, I think, in the Committee on Legal Affairs is going to know the number of this decision, I have it with me here, just in case. The next report by this working group, which only recently arrived in our mailbox, contained essentially the same text of our group's draft, with some annexes. Perhaps, in fact, we acknowledge and understand not only in the opposition but also in the coalition that we have broken the Estonian Constitution in this area for nearly 20 years. I think that both our group and the citizens who are watching us, who are interested in their fundamental rights and who do not live in a paranoid world, where the violation of fundamental rights can lead to various misdemeanours and delusions about a big brother who is constantly watching and does not even need the permission of a court, would be delighted if, in accordance with good practice, this violation of the Constitution is removed from our laws. Moreover, given the fact that the Ministry of Justice has said that these amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure will enter into force in 2013. Are we really going to postpone for another year the abolition of both the grammatical and the substantive barrage of the Constitution in a literal sense? If anyone has any doubts about the substance, I suggest that you take a pretty important book for lawyers, which is an executive edition of the Estonian Constitution, which points out that this section has in fact already been programmed into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U131	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. There are no questions for you. I ask Valdo Randpere, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U132	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs also addressed this issue at its meeting. a 10 October. When I compared it with the previous draft, which I also presented here, this parallel was not so substantive as it was based on this logic that, since there is a working group on the legal regulation of surveillance activities that wants to come up with a complex and uniform solution, the Committee on Legal Affairs has, in principle, also tended to give them this opportunity. I do not want to go into any debate with my colleague, Mrs Anvelt, about whether or not there is a violation of fundamental rights here. The Committee on Legal Affairs also did not exactly agree whether or not there was, there are different interpretations here, different things. I guess we've been living with it for years, as you described here. There hasn't been a real consensus in evaluating it. Indeed, some of the Supreme Court's decisions that justify it were given as an example. The debate was as it was. However, we have taken a position as to whether the first reading of this draft should be stopped or whether it should be rejected. The Commission voted and, by 5 votes in favour, decided to reject the draft. Markko Künnapu, the representative of the Ministry of Justice, also took part in our meeting. So the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to reject the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U133	Thank you very much, Mr Randpere. You have many questions. Let's start with my colleague, Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U134	My first question is very simple. The working group is working, but at the same time the minister has already put forward an idea in the news that the law might be delayed. This is probably part of the working group's work, because it needs to be discussed. How long will they be discussing this, January 15th? The practice of dealing with such a complex matter properly in the Riigikogu requires us to discuss it for at least six months. It's October 19th. Where is the proposal of the working group to postpone entry into force? It has not been brought to us so far; it has not been presented to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U135	As far as I know, it will be submitted to Parliament in the coming weeks through the Committee on Legal Affairs. The final report of the working group is also under way, it is a matter of weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U136	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U137	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U138	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! We have reached a consensus that there is, however, a violation of a fundamental right here. Is the Committee on Legal Affairs really willing to postpone the elimination of this interference for another year, just as the government has proposed to postpone this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U139	The prerequisite for this question was that we have reached a consensus. I wouldn't say that. We have reached a consensus that there might be a violation of the fundamental right. But we did not have the same consensus either. It cannot be argued that lawyers are fully in agreement. We have also been offered a second interpretation, which made it just as clear to us that this is not a violation of the fundamental right. We've been living with that for quite a few years, I don't even know how many years exactly. These questions are not so black and white, and they are not a problem that acutely raised, precisely because they have rarely occurred.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U140	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Randpere. I'm opening negotiations. I would first like to call on the speaker's colleague Marko Pomerants as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U141	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna do two in one, I mean both drafts. On the other hand, I am a bit abusing the IRL mandate for negotiation and speaking as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I want to convince you that the Committee on Legal Affairs, first of all, can do its job. Secondly, with regard to the possible timetables for what happens when, indeed, with regard to the legislative changes that will be in force under the current law from 1 January, all experienced members of the Riigikogu know that we will have to deal with the postponement of this entry into force in the coming weeks, which means that the Committee on Legal Affairs will have to initiate this change immediately and deal with it quickly, so that all of this can happen this year. As you know, from half of December, you will all present the results of your work in your constituency and there is not much presence in Tallinn. This working group will meet again on 4 November. Now there's a bill. Hopefully, this draft will be subject to further coordination this year and we will be able to deal with it at the beginning of next year. I'm sure that's what's gonna happen. As regards the means of transport that are sometimes called and run over in this Chamber, or that are not involved or whatever, I am a member of this working group as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and I have informed all members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, regardless of the party ticket they have in their pocket, the state of play of the changes in the working group. There is only one thing I have asked for: we will do politics with group material when it has become a 'draft'. I do hope that this broad-based group, put together to do this job, will be able to complete this work in the first week of November. That time is not too far away if we can essentially start discussing all the nuances, including what is, in somebody's understanding, a re-representable form of judge's permission, etc. There's a lot of discussion here, and there's more. Are you from the opposition or coalition, if your proposal is constructive and remedial, it is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U142	Thank you very much, Mr Pomerants. I would like to invite my colleague, Kalle Laanet, to the chair as a representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If the previous speaker made two presentations in one, I will do one for two, in the sense that I mean both. In recent times, the leaders of the constitutional institutions have been on this board and have been quite manly tossing us. The reason is whether we have not taken their proposals into account or whether we have not wanted to listen to them. The same way we've been pushed by the media. However, these drafts have been initiated on the basis of a proposal from the Chancellor of Justice and prepared by the opposition. Now we're back in the bad part that we've done something. The funniest part of the Commission's discussion was when, in essence, the proposal to bring the rules on surveillance into line with the Constitution was announced by the Ministry of Justice's official that this would create more bureaucracy. I did raise my voice there. My second proposal was to leave both drafts in the process, to discuss them together with the proposals that are coming from the Ministry of Justice, in order for Parliament to cooperate as a whole. However, unfortunately, the previous bill has already been voted out and it seems that this bill is also waiting for the same fate. I don't know, is it good or bad? I think it's rather bad. We could discuss certain things regardless of the colour of the party ticket and do it in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U144	Thank you very much, Kalle Laane. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U145	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to come here a second time. The road roller worked anyway, and you're still throwing it down there. But as a maybe too young politician, I'm blue-eyed and I think if we do something, we should do it together. Especially when it is not about the world view, if we are not talking about whether child benefits are good or bad, greater or smaller, if we are not talking about pensions, but about a sacred document such as the Constitution and we admit that there is a mistake, because the law is written the same way, but the constitution is different. I disagree with my colleague Valdo Randpere: these things are still very black and white. When we talk about the fact that some decision of the Supreme Court, as expressed by my colleague Randpere, spoke of something else, I recall that I quoted this judgment. That verdict really talked about something else, but I'm not going to bother you. There was a discussion of how the judge's oral permission could be interpreted in writing the next day. More was said about whether or not this provision violates the Constitution. If we try to look at these reasons, one of the reasons for this is that the representative of the Ministry of Justice in the Commission mentioned that there are no expenditures here. Yeah, well, maybe we really should sign up for spending anything, like a smartphone judge, or some other technical means, so that he can grant this permission as a matter of urgency. However, I do not fail to point out that when a legislative amendment was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which imposes an obligation on the barrister to appoint a lawyer by way of state legal aid in cases where the right lawyer cannot participate in the process, it was not written in this bill either that it would entail costs, although we are talking specifically about legal aid for people who are unable to pay their own bills. The same representative of the Ministry of Justice then answered my question in the Commission, "Where do they take these figures, they do not know how much money is asked for under such a legislative amendment. Very interesting. These are things of a completely different scale. The Ministry of Justice may act on expenses as he wishes, but a member of the Riigikogu, who does not think that a draft law would bring about fundamental changes in law making, but rather brings the law into line with the Constitution, must know the costs. That is why I had another question: can we even talk about spending if we bring the law into line with the Constitution? If there is a costly matter, do we not have to comply with the Constitution? This, too, is a very interesting approach. In summary, I would like to say to Mr Marko that we have not really used the Ministry of Justice's report to make policy. But if the report of the Ministry of Justice uses the text of opposition politicians, perhaps adding a few sentences, but the content remains exactly the same, what is it? This is exactly the same policy making. In general, I regret that we continue to ridicule each other and each other's thoughts in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I would like this to become more constructive in the future. But until then, we all have the strength to fight this attitude! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U146	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Your last two performances are going through some sort of team absolutization and shielding. He will solve all our problems in the future in a complex way, as long as members of the Riigikogu and political groups do not intervene in lawmaking for God's sake. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, did not there ever be a debate about the procedure for these two drafts in order to link them to the future draft of the government in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U147	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading, we need to vote through this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject, at first reading, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party 73. Please vote! 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 32 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Bill 73 fell out of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U148	Dear waitress, Would you like to remind us how much a year we're taking last year, these surveillance activities were carried out, in which we can talk about, or not talk about, a breach of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U149	As I recall, the Commission did not discuss this, but I can refer to the previous speaker, Andres Anvelt, who claimed that there were a dozen of these cases per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U150	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U151	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In particular, the excesses and disproportionate measures taken by the state's investigative and surveillance authorities pose a particular threat to democracy and the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. Control is also crucial in this whole process. Do you think that the current civil control system is adequate and effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U152	I must grieve you now, Karel, but the Committee on Legal Affairs did not touch on this issue at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U153	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U154	I don't know if you're an education lawyer or not. It's me. I have been dealing with questions quite many times in my life, especially legal issues, where it is not possible to give a very clear answer. There are disputes, and there are disagreements, whether or not it hurts. The exact same discussion arose in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The aim of the Committee on Legal Affairs is not to increase legal uncertainty in any way and to make any rapid ad hoc changes here only in order to be quick. That can't be the purpose. However, the aim must be to protect legal certainty and fundamental rights. That's what we're working for. We have proposed this to you at our best in order to increase legal certainty for people and to make sure that we do not violate their fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U155	Thank you. I understand that the Committee on Legal Affairs was unable to conclude whether this was a violation of fundamental rights and, as you said, we also do not know whether the adoption of this law could cause some kind of interference with fundamental rights. This gives a very unprofessional impression of the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Something was discussed and then the vote was taken without really coming up with an understanding of what we are talking about. How do you see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U156	Of course, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this issue in one way or another. We are clearly granting credit to Andres Anvelt and the Social Democratic Party, who came up with this proposal, which is indeed very likely to be at least largely in favour of this working group's conclusions and report. I do not rule out these provisions entering into law at all. We simply found in the Committee on Legal Affairs that it would be better to resolve these issues once and for all, so that there would not be the same thing as was the case when the law was being dealt with. The previous Riigikogu passed this law, but then it was discovered that there were errors, they were changed, then the entry into force was postponed, etc. We shouldn't go this way. If we are able to tackle this in a comprehensive way, to resolve this problem at our best discretion and to remove all possible constitutional clashes, we would rather do so. We might lose a couple of weeks, but we could do it properly and at the same time. It was the idea of the Committee on Legal Affairs, not to discriminate in any way against the opposition or against the drafts they tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U157	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U158	Thank you. Was it also mentioned in the Commission that, if a violation of a fundamental right was discovered, would it have to be eliminated immediately or could it be done at any time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U159	In the Committee on Legal Affairs, no one specifically said that it could be done at any time, as you defined. Of course, we want to do this as soon as possible, but we do not want to create a situation where we accidentally violate other rights again, because we simply rush to take a piece of some kind of law and change it without thinking about what it will bring to the other parts of the law. That is the point of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and that is why we want to reject this draft now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U160	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U161	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague Valdo! I had a doubt that since you called the Supreme Court's judgment'some sort of Supreme Court', maybe you're not into it at all. As a Member of the Commission, I ask you: what was the content of our group's draft? Why don't you refer a few words to the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U162	I have the contents of your bill very well here. The content of this draft is the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure is amended as follows: § 1264 (4) is amended, etc. Do you want me to read you this or your explanatory statement? This Supreme Court ruling, which was referred to there, I called something because it ran easily through the discussion. There was a heated argument as to whether it gave one or the other party the right. This I referred to as an example that these questions are not always so black and white. You presented it as a very clear penalty, that you are in breach of the Constitution and that everyone agrees with it, but will allow it to continue. That is not really the case, and neither did the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U163	Please, Mr Vasiliev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U164	Thank you. I understand that one of the reasons why the Commission is very critical of this draft is that it is done in case of an emergency, because the adoption of this draft as a law could violate fundamental rights in another nuance. What fundamental right, in the Commission's view, could be affected by the adoption of this draft as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U165	Thank you, Rannar! As you can see from my last answer, that's exactly what we don't know right now. That is why, just in case, we were not in favour of adopting this draft as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U166	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U167	Good colleague! I understand that there were very serious doubts about the decision of the Supreme Court as well as about everything else in the Commission. As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, maybe you've read the report from the Working Group of the Ministry of Justice sent to you and can you tell me how the last report felt about this same amendment to the Constitution? This report recently came to the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U168	Yeah, I've read it. I haven't exactly compared it to your bill, literally, I haven't. But basically they saw a possible problem there, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U169	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U170	The second question is a little more complicated. As a national envoy, I cannot understand one thing in the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. If we have the fear that a certain shear will violate a fundamental right, then we cannot actually be sure that, next year, if these suspected shearers are used, some of the criminals will not be caught, or someone will ultimately win in court, because the Riigikogu missed the correction of one law. I wouldn't want to take this responsibility on the Riigikogu. Would it not be more reasonable to adopt the law and change it so that those who do their work can do it without fear? This system is nothing new, it's worked for years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U171	That was an interesting and long question. I'm sure I'll take it with me to the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'll present it there. We'll discuss it next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U172	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U173	The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Estonia 'Enlargement of the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development' begins. I would like to ask Mr Andrus Saare, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U174	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft decision 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development' took place in the Riigikogu on 28 September. No proposals were received within the given deadline. The Commission's agenda included a second reading on 11 October. a. The aim of the draft is to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development by subscription of 900 callable shares of a total value of EUR 9 million in accordance with the conditions set out in the resolution. I'll give you a brief overview of what happened earlier. The Government of the Republic agreed to join the Treaty establishing the Bank in its meeting of 20 February 1992 and Estonia fulfilled all the conditions for joining the Bank. The Bank's founding agreement was amended in 2004. As the legal situation had changed by 2004, the Riigikogu ratified it in accordance with the law in force at the time of the Treaty amendment. Estonia has subscribed to the bank on two occasions: it has joined 1000 shares and it has also subscribed to 1000 shares in the capital increase that came into force in 1997. With this capital increase, the Estonian portfolio will also increase by 1001 shares. Each share shall have a value of EUR 10000. As a percentage, Estonia's participation in the bank's share capital is 0.1%. On the basis of the above, the Commission has taken the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda today, 19 October, to conclude the second reading and to put it to a final vote. The decision was consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U175	Thank you very much, Mr Andrus Saare. There are no questions. Please ask questions faster! Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U176	Good manager! Good waitress! I have one question: what has been the contribution to the Estonian economy so far of the bank whose share capital we are increasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U177	The bank's contribution has been very high. Since 1992, the Bank has supported more than 80 projects in Estonia and more than EUR 500 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U178	No further questions. Thank you again, Mr Andrus Saare. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. No amendments have been tabled to the draft, and we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development', submitted by the Government of the Republic, draft 77. Please vote! 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U179	The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Treaty of the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Rein Aidma, member of the Social Affairs Committee, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U180	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed draft Act 64 on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine at its regular meeting on Monday, 10 October. No amendments were tabled to the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. The chairman of the committee proposed that the draft law be sent to the second reading of the plenary hall of the Riigikogu on 19 October with the proposal to adopt the bill as a law. The Commission decided unanimously to support this proposal. The second reading of the draft act was appointed rapporteur. It was therefore decided to send the draft to the plenary session, to put it to a final vote and to adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U181	Thank you very much, Mr Rein Aidma. No questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments to the draft law. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final draft Act 64 on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Please vote! 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U182	The second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy and the Law on Administrative Cooperation initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please waitress the Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, Kalvi Tõvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U183	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft law at a meeting of the Commission on 72 October 10. Specialists at the Ministry of Agriculture were also invited Mai Talvik, Henno Nurmsalu and Taavi Kand. The events of recent weeks in connection with the European Union's common agricultural policy may lead to the view that the draft law will change very large and important things in the European Union's common agricultural policy. But I would remind you that, above all, the purpose of the draft is to bring the current law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union into line with European Union law and to clarify the text of the law which entered into force on 1 January 2010, making the text of the law more understandable and clearer. It also sounded from this remote control in a presentation by the Minister of Agriculture, who initiated the bill. As the Minister of Agriculture said at the time, the initiator of the draft law already had a number of amendments prepared in this Chamber at first reading. That's what happened. Eight amendments to the draft law have been tabled and have been finalised by the Rural Commission in cooperation with the initiator. Most of them, namely the first, second, third, fourth, sixth and seventh proposals, are technical and editorial. Amendment 5 is what I will mention a little bit. In particular, the activities of a producer group recognised under the current law may have two objectives. First, to market agricultural products produced by their members (such a recognised producer group is, for example, a profit cooperative in the farmhouse), and, secondly, to promote farmers' participation in food quality schemes (for example, 'Uma mekk', 'Greener life'). This harmonisation of requirements for producer groups operating for different purposes has not proved to be appropriate, i.e. they must still be recognised. With this amendment, we divide producer groups into two. One is the marketing of their members' agricultural products. The requirements for them remain the same, they must be recognised. However, when farmers participate in food quality schemes, they are predominantly NGOs and associations, the representatives of these producer groups are no longer required to be recognised. So much for Amendment 5. Amendment 8 is also of a slightly more technical nature. It extends the transitional period for the implementation of the Leader measure. In order to ensure a smooth implementation of the Leader approach, the draft provides for transitional management agreements. As the procedure for the draft law has been completed and the originally planned transitional period for the conclusion of management contracts is no longer sufficient, it is proposed to extend the transitional period until 31 December 2012. So much for the amendments. The Rural Commission, as the lead committee, proposes that the second reading of the draft be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U184	Thank you very much, Mr Kalvi Tough. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U185	On behalf of myself and on behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I would like to emphasise one thing in this draft law. Indeed, we know that the aim of the reform of the European Union's common agricultural policy is to adapt current agriculture or adapt to changes in the market, to the need for these changes. Of course, in a difficult situation for the whole world and for Europe, the ultimate goal is, at least, to ensure that Europeans have food. If you look at this document, there will be a very important question here at the beginning: these are the same agricultural subsidies that have been so much talked about recently. That is why I also came to this remote control to emphasise once again the need to restructure this support system and to put to the heart the decision-makers so that these changes can be made. I would also like to remind once again everyone on whom the future of this reform depends, that they will certainly address these changes and serve the common noble purpose of supporting the Baltic farmers. Interestingly, these small subsidies, which have become a major concern, in themselves also brought out very interesting political moments. In fact, farmers left their machines and home farm, came to the streets of Riga, Vilnius and Tallinn, became politically active and went to Brussels. It is, of course, nice to see that people in Europe have gained the courage to fight more for their rights and to emphasise solidarity. Baltic unity, on which we have spoken so much that it has not been, has come up with the development and discussion of this reform. I do not remember that Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian farmers have done very great joint actions. This time it happened. If we have talked for years that Baltic cooperation is not developing in any way, then now we can see that it is developing in the right direction and in the right direction, which is also pleasant. The third thing that I personally very much like is that the Euro ambassadors from the various political groups in Brussels have finally found a common language and, as we can read in the newspapers today and have already heard from the news of the information agencies, forgotten the differences between parties, forgotten the different views of the world, and joined in defending the interests of Lithuanian, Latvian and Estonian farmers. So the wind to the wings of all who will be the subject of this reform and of changing their decisions! I hope that, as a result of this reform, we will get a nice result with which everyone will be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U186	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are eight amendments to the draft law. The first, second and third have been submitted by the commission, i.e. it has been fully taken into account. The 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th have been presented by the lead committee, has been fully taken into account. We examined all the amendments. Second reading of bill 72 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U187	The second reading of the draft law on plant reproductive and plant variety rights initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to ask Meelis Mälberg, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give a brief overview of the current procedure of the Act on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights Act 93 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The purpose of this draft law is to supplement the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law with the requirements laid down by the Commission Directive which entered into force on 30 August 2010 and which will have to be transposed into Estonian law by 30 November 2011. This draft allows the marketing of fodder plant seed mixtures intended for the conservation of the natural environment and genetic resources, even if the ingredients of these mixtures do not meet some of the general marketing requirements. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 22 September and on 28 September the draft was in the Riigikogu's plenary session at first reading. The draft was then discussed again by the Committee on Rural Affairs at its meeting on 10 October. Toivo Nõvandi, Deputy Chancellor of Food Safety of the Ministry of Agriculture, was invited to this meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs. By the deadline of 7 October at 12 o'clock, the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the committees of the Riigikogu submitted no amendments to the draft. The Rural Affairs Committee took the following decisions: firstly, to send the draft Act 93 on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for second reading on 19 October. a and propose to the Assembly to terminate the second reading of the draft, second, when the second reading of the draft 93 is completed, to send the draft to the third reading on 26 October 2011 and to propose that the draft be adopted by the assembly as a law. Both decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-19_U189	Thank you very much, Mr Mälberg. Colleagues don't have any questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As there are no amendments to the draft law, the second reading of bill 93 has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, We still have a final point to discuss, but unfortunately, the first reading of draft 83 is currently cancelled, as Minister Jaak Aaviksoo is not present and, according to § 73 (1) of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the debate on the draft will be postponed to the next working week. That means the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 15.42 p.m.
