ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. I ask for the Riigikogu's speech chair Kalle Laaneti!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! We have an inquiry with a number of members of the Central Party Group to the Minister for the Interior. An internal satisfaction study was carried out last year at the Police and Border Guard Board in the area of the Ministry of the Interior. During this first phase, between 17 November 2010 and 16 December 2010, the functioning of internal communications and the second phase was examined at 7/21. until 31 December 2010, the organisation's internal climate. According to the survey, 86% of the police and border guards do not believe that the structure of the agency is conducive to effective management and decision-making. 46% of managers are not satisfied with the organisation of work and day-to-day business. 73% of workers do not understand the organisation of work and 81% of workers are struggling with day-to-day administration. Concerningly, there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with the internal climate, especially among the staff of the Border Guard Department and the Criminal Police Department. In addition, the need for honest communication has been highlighted by many workers. Surprisingly, poor research results were as expected of the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, and this is because a large organisation is not ready. On this basis, we have nine questions for the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U3	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Central Party Group will initiate a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. The purpose of the draft is to increase the control of surveillance activities and to ensure that people's privacy is protected. The drafting of the draft was due to the need to bring the rules of surveillance procedures into force next year into line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ratified by Estonia and with internationally recognised principles. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice has proposed to the Riigikogu that the regulation on the control of the notification and postponement of a surveillance operation be brought into conformity with the Constitution. The draft initiated by the Centre Party concerns the granting of surveillance permits, the notification and non-notification of surveillance activities and the monitoring of the justification of authorisation even more widely. The draft act grants the right to grant permission to pursue surveillance activities to the investigating judge alone and eliminates the possibility for the prosecutor's office, as an interested party, to do so. Secondly, a panel of experts will be set up at the Court, which will thoroughly process requests for surveillance and reduce the high workload of judges so far. And third, the detention period is reduced to ten days, but at the request of the investigating judge, it can be extended for up to six months. The amendment brings the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution and brings an end to the situation where there is the possibility of not informing a person about the surveillance activities carried out against him. The Chancellor of Justice has also stressed the need for such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U5	There doesn't seem to be any more calls. Good fellows! I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu and one inquiry; their further processing is decided by the management board of the Riigikogu in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. I also announce that the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Good fellows! We're conducting a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. There is also a clarification on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the debate on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 12, on which Mr Borodich, Vice-President of the Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Mr Anvelt, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on behalf of the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U6	Let us now begin the procedure for the first item on the agenda. Let me briefly present the procedure for processing the number 12 proposed by the Chancellor of Justice. First, the report by Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, is up to 20 minutes, then the presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for up to 20 minutes, as well as the presentation by a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for up to 20 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask the rapporteur one oral question. After the round of questions, there is a round of negotiations, and I have a suggestion that there should be representatives of the political groups first in this round and then others who would like to speak. The negotiations shall be concluded when the President puts to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour is required for the adoption of the proposal. Good fellows! Let us now begin the processing of this item. Indrek Tederi, Chancellor of Justice, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu! The item is entitled 'Proposal by the Chancellor of Justice of No 12 on notification and control of surveillance activities'. Good fellows! There's too much noise in the hall. Quiet, please! Let us honor the waitress and honor our fellow officers! Thank you! Please, Chancellor of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On the basis of § 142 (1) of the Constitution and § 17 of the Chancellor of Justice Act, I propose that the Riigikogu bring § 121 (1), second sentence, (4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with the Constitution, § 17 (1), second sentence, (4) of the Surveillance Act and § 12615 (2) and (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will enter into force on 1 January 2012. The following is a brief explanation of the content of my proposal, and more detailed reasons can be found in the written proposal sent to the Riigikogu. It should be noted here that in assessing the constitutionality of these rules, I have based my analysis on the following aspects: First, the wording of the legal basis for delaying the surveillance operation; second, the practice of delaying information; thirdly, the organisation of supervision; fourthly, other procedural guarantees (remedies, regulation of storage and use of collected information). As a result of the analysis carried out, I came to the conclusion that the legislation referred to was in conjunction with § 36 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Surveillance Act and the Security Authorities Act, contrary to constitutional principles: prohibition of state interference (based on § 13 (2) of the Constitution); right to procedure and order (based on § 14 of the Constitution); right to effective legal protection in the event of infringement (§ 15 (1) of the Constitution) and the right to access data held in public authorities (§ 44 (3) of the Constitution). The contradiction with the principles listed in the Constitution is that the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Surveillance Act make it possible not to notify the person of the pursuit at all, and the law does not provide for effective and systematic monitoring of the postponement of the notification and non-communication of the surveillance operation. The constitutional background is as follows: As a preliminary point, we all want an honest and transparent country. The achievement of an honest state and the detection of crimes have still been a place for gathering evidence in the course of surveillance activities. Figuratively speaking, fair business in the country could be an Estonian trademark. At the same time, it is important that the achievement of an honest state, as well as any other legitimate objective, does not result in a serious violation of the fundamental rights of individuals as a means of surveillance as essential under certain circumstances, which could lead to the devaluation of the fundamental values of a democratic state. There have been many repetitions of the very right principle that a democratic state must be transparent. The state institutions must not be covered with an opaque shell, behind which people do not see editing, that is a general principle. Linguistically interpreting and framing the concept of science could lead to the result that if something is completely transparent, it cannot be seen at all and does not exist. Thus, if the state is fully transparent in some area, there is no transparency in the legal sense. Paradox! The parallel between such unseen activities and surveillance activities is not difficult to draw. In short, in a democratic rule of law, public authority must be transparent in legal terms and can be controlled by the public. Therefore, although we do not call into question the need for the secret collection of information for purposes consistent with the Constitution, it must be said that surveillance activities constitute an unconventional, in other words exceptional, act of the rule of law. By secret collection of personal data, the state intervenes in the private sphere of a person. It offends a person's many fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. In so doing, rights and freedoms may be violated either in the course of a surveillance operation or in the storage, use or other processing of information obtained by a surveillance operation. Even in a situation where there is no basis to talk about the country's total monitoring, the risk of selective abuse must be mitigated, i.e. on a case-by-case basis. It is important to inform a person of an act of a state that violates his or her rights and is secret, that is to say, under the principle of human dignity (i.e. § 10 of the Constitution) and because it creates the possibility for a person to exercise judicial remedies. According to § 44 (3) of the Constitution, a person has a right of access to data held in state institutions and local government institutions and in the archives of the state and local governments. This right may be restricted by law in the cases listed in the same provision, such as the protection of the rights and freedoms of another person, in criminal proceedings for the purpose of finding out the truth. I am of the opinion that the protected area of § 44 (3) of the Constitution must be interpreted extenuatingly, i.e. in such a way as to require the person to be "actively informed of the gathering of secret information after the purpose of the surveillance operation has been achieved. The following is a little dissipation of the shortcomings of the current regulation. First, the grounds for delaying the notification of the surveillance operation. The risk of damage to criminal proceedings and surveillance activities as the legal basis for delaying notification of a surveillance operation is, in itself, covered by the restrictive clauses permitted by the Constitution, where access to the data collected by a person may be restricted (i.e. Paragraph 44 (3) (2) of the Constitution). It is understandable that, as long as there is a pre-trial procedure in a criminal case or a tracing procedure, for example for the purpose of preventing a criminal offence, immediate information to a person would result in a failure to perform the task. However, preventing the promotion of crime as a basis for delaying information is extremely broad and applicable even after the above procedure has been completed. The risk of criminal facilitation as a basis for delaying information may be consistent with the objective of preventing a constitutional crime only in limited cases. As a result of the analysis, I did not find effective control of the postponement of the notification of the surveillance operation, which is why, on a case-by-case basis, misinterpretations incompatible with the protection of the fundamental rights of a person are not excluded. This risk is primarily linked to the basis of the risk of promoting crime. Secondly, a significant lack of regulation also lies in the fact that the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Surveillance Act allow for an interpretation that the notification of the surveillance operation is postponed until the deadline for the destruction of the collected data has expired. As a result, the person is not informed of the end-stage tracking operation. At the same time, it may be a very long time to store and therefore use the information collected in the surveillance operation. For example, time limits protected by state secrets range from 25, 50 or 75 years depending on the type of information. Although § 44 (3) of the Constitution does not, in my view, give rise to a refusal to exclude a person from access to data held by public authorities, it can only be permitted under exceptional circumstances provided for by the legislator. I would point out that the law does not explicitly provide for a lack of information at this stage. Due to the principle of importance (reserved Parliament) contained in § 3 of the Constitution, the legislator must decide all matters relevant to fundamental rights itself. Thirdly, I focused my analysis on the organisation of supervision and the actual practice of reporting and not informing the surveillance operation. Since the law confers a discretion on the prosecutor's office and the investigating authority, i.e. the different legal possibilities for the immediate notification of a surveillance operation, such exercise of discretion must, in principle, be verifiable in appeal, appeal or legal proceedings. In a situation where a person is not aware of a secret act committed against him, the nature and intensity of the surveillance activities must be such as to ensure that the legality of the activities of the State is controlled on behalf of the so-called person. Surveillance activities can gather extensive and sensitive information about a person, which is why the completeness of the verification system is undeniably more important in surveillance activities than in other areas of state action. The procedure revealed that since July 2004, when the law imposed the obligation to notify a person of a surveillance operation, there was no reliable practice of delaying and definitively not informing statistics. Inspections of non-communications shall be carried out by the Head of the Surveillance Authority and the Public Prosecutor's Office and shall be carried out by random checks by the prosecutor's office after the criminal proceedings have been concluded. In a letter sent to me at the end of last year, the Special Committee on Security Authorities of the Riigikogu confirmed that the Commission has not been monitoring the notification and postponement of the surveillance operation so far. The relevant case law is extremely scarce. The duty of scrutiny imposed by law on the Public Prosecutor's Office (from 1 January 2012 it also extends to pre-criminal investigation for the purpose of preventing crime) is an important procedural guarantee; however, the control of an institution with the function of state prosecution cannot be regarded as independent in terms of separation of powers. There is no independent review of individual cases of delay and non-notification of a surveillance operation in order to protect the fundamental rights of a person, unless the person is subsequently informed or otherwise or accidentally informed of the surveillance operation. Finally, I note that my proposal concerns the postponement of the notification of a surveillance operation and the non-communication of a criminal procedure or of a surveillance activity in order to prevent the damage to or the facilitation of criminal activity. At the same time, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Surveillance also include other grounds for delaying notification of surveillance activities, such as the protection of a secret collaborator. If the proposal is accepted, it is therefore appropriate to review the system of notification of the surveillance operation as a whole, as the principles taken into account in the formulation of my position extend to a large extent to other grounds for delaying notification. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U8	Thank you, Chancellor. Good colleagues, do you have any questions? Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'll ask where you've finished. According to your vision, how large a change in these specific laws could be, provided, of course, that the Riigikogu agrees with your proposal today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U10	That wouldn't be too big. In principle, these provisions should be amended. In my opinion, this is not very labour-intensive. First of all, the wording should be clarified and an appropriate control body should be provided for. As I have made clear in my proposal, this control body could be a court. The Chancellor of Justice does not make such binding proposals, but it would probably make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U11	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! According to current practice, non-notification of restrictions on the fundamental rights of individuals is rather a rule, although the law could make it an exception. When we were interested in the last joint action, it became clear that there are no clear statistics on information and non-communication. Do you think it is necessary to establish such firm reporting that we have a proper numerical overview? Then you can go to the content.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U13	Yeah, basically. Indeed, there are no reliable statistics in general. This could be part of the control system and in general let you know what's going on. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U14	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! How do you feel: is the entire law on surveillance and the law on security authorities clear enough so that people can understand what motivations and with whose permission the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals can be restricted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U16	Thank you for your question. It's a wider subject. I decided, after having participated in the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs over two years through my advisor, that it would be most sensible to take this matter up with concrete proposals, to examine the specific provisions, and, if I find a contradiction, to propose that the honourable Parliament proceed with concrete steps. If you take this whole picture, it could just get a little slow. Let me explain a little bit of the pursuit as a procedure for ensuring security. First of all, it's divided into two. My proposal concerns criminal proceedings. Until the end of this year, surveillance will be divided into two pursuant to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Surveillance Act and the Security Authorities Act. As I said, my proposal concerns the Code of Criminal Procedure. After the turn of the year, it is still divided into two, but the law on surveillance continues to be part of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In conclusion, I can say that I have decided to come up with concrete steps to further develop the overall situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U17	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! I am interested in these so-called third parties in the field of surveillance activities. If a person is monitored and even authorised, that person will be exposed to many others. Are these other, third, fourth, fifth persons informed of this? Do they have a right to know about this, and to what extent can the information they provide be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U19	Yes, in principle these persons are also covered by the protected area referred to in § 44 (3) of the Constitution. This is also part of my proposal that they should, in principle, be informed. And if not informed, the law should clearly state the grounds on which they are not informed that they are in the protected area.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U20	Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for your proposal and your presentation, as well as for your answers. No further questions. I would like the Riigikogu Chair to be presented by Deniss Borodichi, vice-chairman of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed proposal No 12 of the Chancellor of Justice at its meeting on 30 May with the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Chancellor of Justice, who presented his proposal to the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, was also invited to the meeting. The State Attorney General Norman Aas and a representative of the Ministry of Justice were also invited to the hearing. During the sitting, the Chancellor of Justice stressed that his proposal was based on a constructive desire to improve the existing situation and that it was a specific proposal that concerns information and problems related to the surveillance exercise. Three points were identified by the Chancellor of Justice as the main problems. Point 1: The grounds for delaying or not notifying surveillance activities are too vague. Point 2: The determining institution should be independent of the parties to the procedure. Point 3: There should also be clear arrangements and procedures for delaying the notification of the surveillance operation. Consequently, the Chancellor of Justice proposed that the relevant laws be brought into line with the Constitution. The State Attorney General Norman Aas, who was invited as a guest, saw, in particular, problems in carrying out a biased non-communication check by the prosecutor's office, as the same prosecutors authorised not to report on the surveillance operation were allowed to do so. He saw it as a risk of conflict and felt that a system in many other countries, where the failure to report a surveillance action requires the permission of the court, would be conceivable. A representative of the Ministry of Justice found that the grounds for not reporting a surveillance operation were a little too broad and vague, but he did not see a direct contradiction with the Constitution. He considered that there was rather a problem with the supervision of the issuing of such permits when it was not notified of the surveillance operation. After hearing the speeches, the Commission held a debate on the proposal. Many of the members of the committees examined whether there was a statistical overview of the number of non-communications activities. A representative of the Ministry of Justice replied that he did not, and that is one of the main problems. Databases currently do not contain specific information about non-notification of a tracking operation. The monitoring of non-communications activities was also discussed. The members of the Commission were of the opinion that there should be judicial review of the non-communication of intelligence activities, as the court is an independent body. In conclusion, the Commission considered that the rule of law requires the rights of persons to be firmly protected and that people should feel safe. Tackling fundamental rights should be as precise and well regulated as possible. The Commission considered that it was certainly necessary to clarify in the law the concepts which the Chancellor of Justice pointed out in his proposal: 'promoting crime' and 'danger against the objective of surveillance' are clearly too broad definitions. The Commission also considered that monitoring of non-compliance with surveillance should certainly be better regulated in order to ensure effective protection of the constitutional rights of individuals. Consequently, at its meeting on 30 May, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided by a vote of 8 votes in favour and 2 abstentions to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U22	Thank you, honored waitress. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you for your report. I now ask Andres Anvelt, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U23	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Borodich actually spoke in detail at the joint session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this issue in two sessions. The first time was then Monday, 30 May with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the second on Tuesday, 31 May. On 31 May, there was also a debate in the Commission, which was a bit wider than this proposal from the Chancellor of Justice today. We dealt with monitoring issues in surveillance activities and in criminal proceedings at large. But since this does not directly concern the proposal of today's Chancellor of Justice, I am not going to report it with your kind permission. I would like to say that the Committee on Legal Affairs was attended by five members of the Riigikogu who supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice by consensus, and I am here with this message that the honourable Riigikogu could support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U24	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U25	Mr Anvelt! I appeal to you as a representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs, but also as a person who has worked in different places in Estonia for a long time. This wonderfully presented world in the Chancellor of Justice's statement sometimes reminds me of the kind of Kafka world we have been in in in 20 years. Can you appreciate how it has been possible for us, 20 years after the restoration of independence, to establish it and to deal with such basic things, because the disorder is really chafic? Has this happened because of ignorance or because of someone's will?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U26	A good question in the sense that it might seem like such a late repairs to a bystander, a common man on the street. But as I come from inside the system, I know that, in fact, in this 20 years, the system has helped create a right to pursue surveillance. We only received the relevant law in 1994. It's evolved. We have evolved towards the rule of law instead of following the principles of the totalitarian regime. One factor may be that our respected citizens have not paid much attention to the problem so far and have believed that the main objective of surveillance is to catch criminals. It is not meant to be in depth for the constitutional glare that the surveillance actually carries. So I think we've been moving at a relatively normal pace towards anchoring all the legal principles of surveillance. I believe that this will certainly intensify now, because in the near future, surveillance will find its place in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The law of surveillance disappears. So we can evaluate surveillance activities as one of the methods of taking evidence, which carries the violation of the Constitution, but which can still be used. This, however, is balanced, given both the protection of citizens' fundamental rights and the need to combat crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U27	Good waitress, thank you for your report and your answer. No further questions. Thank you. And now, good colleagues, I will open negotiations and, as I said, I would ask the representatives of the political groups to speak first. Representative for the Fatherland and Res Publica Union Group Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U29	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U30	I know dozens of people who think their phones are wired. I have always told them that this is probably not the case, and there are three reasons for this. First of all, there's no need for that. Second, it probably wouldn't be legal. Thirdly, the state does not have enough money allocated to surveillance agencies to allow all people to be eavesdropped. And when you look at the people who bear this doubt, I also feel that there is no basis for delaying the notification of the pursuit. They would therefore know about the operation carried out. But I don't know. The detection and prevention of criminal offences requires measures that may result in serious violations of fundamental rights. This is legal, but requires appropriate procedural guarantees. The Chancellor of Justice has analysed the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Surveillance Act, which will allow the person to be informed of the conduct of a surveillance operation that has violated his rights to prevent the violation of criminal proceedings and the facilitation of crime and the damage to surveillance activities. In addition to the analysis, he concluded that § 121 (1) 2 (4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and § 17 (1) 2 (4) of the Surveillance Act, in conjunction with the other provisions of Section 8 of Chapter 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Surveillance Act and § 36 of the Security Authorities Act, are contrary to § 13 (2), § 14, § 15 (1) and § 44 (3) of the Constitution in conjunction with the provisions of Section 8 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which do not provide for effective and systematic supervision arrangements. For the same reasons, the issue of the prohibition of arbitrary conduct resulting from the Constitution has been transferred to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will enter into force on 1 January. And we're talking about Article 12615 (2) (2) (2) and (3) of that. If we now look at this subject in a purely pragmatic way, based on the time at our disposal and the legal term such as'reasonable time' practice, we can focus, first and foremost, on § 12615 (2) (2) and (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will enter into force on 1 January, and on their possible amendment. For the simple reason that these two legislative provisions would lose their strength anyway. That way, we'll save on the characters and get a better view of it. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu concluded that cooperation with the Chancellor of Justice should take place on the issue raised. The possibilities given to us include options for or against the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. There is no opportunity to comment in the vote, but this can be done in the negotiations. As a result of the discussion in the IRL Group, we have come to the conclusion that the existence of the conflict that the Chancellor of Justice has seen can only be confirmed or refuted by the Supreme Court's judgment. In our view, this is not a contradiction. At the same time, the debate on the provisions under discussion has already taken place in the composition of the XI Riigikogu. Then let us try to increase this consensus rate. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which has so far been known as the Bill 286, will enter into force on 1 January anyway. Real work has begun at the Ministry of Justice. As then Minister of Justice Lang promised the President, the regulation of surveillance must be analysed. The discussion is ongoing in the working group and the next meeting will take place before Midsummer Day. The law can be improved. Let us see if we can first solve the problem of checking compliance with the obligation of information raised by the Chancellor of Justice, which seems at first glance simple and fill out the undefined legal concepts that have been raised better. In his analysis, the Chancellor of Justice paid attention to the terms 'trace action' and 'threat of damaging criminal proceedings', but above all to the term 'threat of promoting crime'. In my opinion, there is reason to focus only on the latter, the danger of promoting crime. However, we may still be able to provide solutions to other issues that have arisen over time, so that we can find a better balance between preventing violations of fundamental rights and the conditions necessary to resolve and prevent crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U31	Thank you very much, good fellow. I now ask Mr Andres Anvelt, representative of the Social Democratic Party, to the Riigikogu's speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U32	Thank you, manager. Colleagues, I stand before you again. I cannot stop talking about a subject such as surveillance, because I have been dealing with this constitutional gesture myself for years. Therefore, I have some thoughts that I would like to convey to you. In order not to burden you too much, I will do so, not in numbers, but more in the language of the people. First of all, I am pleased that this issue of internal security and constitutional barrage has, at least in committees, been such a cross-party and the parties have not decided to use this issue for political purposes. This gives assurance that we are on the right track to develop democracy in Estonia and that we understand democracy correctly. But to the point. Before I answered my colleague Jaak Allik in a crazy way because I wanted to explain in this very short speech that what we are actually improving now is the core of surveillance activities that come from, believe it or not, the former secret decree of the Ministry of the Interior of the Soviet Union and the KGB 009, which spoke of surveillance activities in law enforcement bodies, if you could call them that. On the basis of this decree, the Surveillance Act was built in 1994. Since I was in close contact with the creation of the first version of the Surveillance Act at the time, I dare say that some of the sentences I cannot tell you are the same in the latest version of the Act and the terms are the same as those in this decree. Now, in 2011, we have reached the point that we are bringing surveillance into the Code of Criminal Procedure, where it should be. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, we look at surveillance as not just a police working method, but as a state's right to restrict fundamental rights to people. It should be borne in mind, however, that surveillance activities are not a privilege for the police or the surveillance authorities, but an opportunity granted by the people through the Constitution to protect general security by way of an exception. With these exceptions, it must be very clear and understandable to monitor that these same law enforcement bodies often, perhaps simply, would not be exempted from human convenience as a basic tool. All in all, I am pleased that when we talk about the development of surveillance activities, we will no longer build a modern two-storey villa on the foundation of the Barrack Summer in Suur-Sõjamäe, as it was before in the surveillance activity. In this regard, I would like to say that the prosecutor's office, which, according to the current law, decides to postpone informing the citizen of surveillance activities, is certainly not the right authority for this, because it is a national prosecutor and therefore its institution does not bear impartiality. He's still leaning towards a state charge. In this way, the Chancellor of Justice can only support the opinion that this institution must be a court. If the court authorises the pursuit of surveillance activities, the number of people whose fundamental rights are actually violated by the granting of that authorisation is considerably higher due to the contacts of the familiarity community. They must also be the subject of a judicial decision as to whether or not to notify them. If this is the prosecutor's office, there will be the same situation as the "Last Relic" in one of the scenes where the chief of the nunnery will whip Agnes and tell him to keep whipping himself. With this amendment, we would also simplify the work of the prosecutor's office and investigative bodies, taking responsibility for exercising this same discretion. It's still in court. And the last thing I want to say. In the Social Democratic Party Group, we also discussed surveillance activities a little more widely. Firstly, we are pleased that the Ministry of Justice has taken up this issue again. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U33	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U34	The version of the new code will now be enforced on 1 January. The law on surveillance disappears, and the Code of Criminal Procedure begins to play this role. Even at the time of the creation of this version, however, the Chancellor of Justice's proposals had been made. They were not taken into account, and the President drew attention to this. Now a working group has started working at the Ministry of Justice, and we can see that the method of surveillance actually requires further correction. For example, I would like to draw attention to a moment that remained in the days of the judges, where I had the honour to be. There's a Rait Marust idea that I'm sure I'll join. In fact, the possibility that law enforcement authorities may start pursuing before the court gives them permission is not correct. It may be aimed at increasing the operationality of research institutions, but I dare say that this problem can be properly resolved in the course of the work. The vigilante can grant this permission quickly and everything would be compatible with the Constitution. After all, the Constitution does not give any reservation, but states with great certainty that only a court can violate this constitutional right. There's no mention of any 24 hours or exceptions. So in this respect, and in a number of other perhaps smaller nuances, surveillance must also be improved in criminal proceedings. The Social Democratic Party Group will certainly stand for this and try to contribute. But the last thing I want to do is send a message from this remote control to my former colleagues and to the wider community. In recent days, I have been asked why we want to make the work of the police or the prosecutor's office more difficult. That's what we're interrupting the fight against crime. It's not like that! We want the fundamental rights of all our citizens to be guaranteed alongside the fight against crime. And in addition to supporting it, there must certainly not be a statement that this will make the fight against crime more difficult. No, it stays exactly the same. But the fundamental rights of our citizens will also be guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U35	Thank you, good co-worker! Now I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U37	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U38	Ladies and gentlemen, Today there is a topic in this Chamber that seems to be of great interest to very many, because the hall is not normally empty, but quite a lot of members of the Riigikogu are listening and talking. When Mr Marko said that dozens of people have approached him with suspicion that they are being eavesdropped, I dare even increase that number. Very many people think that they are either being eavesdropped, pursued, or other miracle tricks committed to restricting people's fundamental rights and freedoms. I think that here, as legislators, we should look very closely in the mirror. Consequently, we have not been able to create legislative mechanisms that are clear to the citizens of our country so that they can understand how and what motivations it is possible to limit people's fundamental rights and freedoms, so that it does not go so easily. It is also necessary to know what resources the State has to use this method. The Chancellor of Justice has also referred to the problems raised in this Chamber today. Why did I raise the question a little more broadly? In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, we tried to find compromises in the Committee on Legal Affairs on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, precisely in relation to surveillance activities, but in fact it was not very easy. Finding compromises wasn't easy. It was agreed that this law should apply from 1 January 2012, but this does not mean that we should not look at the matter much more strongly today. The faction of the Centre Party has dealt with these issues and the draft that Deniss Borodich handed over today is not only about the issue of not reporting or reporting a surveillance action, but we are looking at things much more widely: we also looked at how, who, and what motivations, gives permission to carry out a surveillance action. Our view is that this regulation must be very simple, clear and concrete, that authorisation should take place in court. If Andres Anvelt had previously claimed that it should only go through court, we found with a certain reservation that in the case of very serious crimes, for example, killing or serious crimes against the state, the right to carry out a surveillance operation could apply within the previous 24 hours. But it is, of course, a matter of discussion. Everything else that is subject to the surveillance procedure, the supervision should be subject to the jurisdiction of the court. We believe that this would certainly improve civil control and give the people a clearer picture of the motivations, when, where and how a surveillance operation can be carried out and how it should be reported. If we all understood things the same way, it would make the picture much clearer. It would reduce all kinds of phobias in society. I mean, right now, some people think we're all under some kind of surveillance at some point in time. Of course, I've always said to be legal, so there's no reason to be afraid. But yes, there are certain dangers in society and clarity is needed. When the Chancellor of Justice said that he was going to take this issue a little bit at a time, we took it as a whole. I very much hope that this draft we have delivered will not go the usual way, as the opposition's drafts have generally gone in this Chamber, so that the procedure will be closed at first reading. I hope that this draft will also be discussed in substance. In my opinion, Mr Anvelt's argument that these issues are largely discussed across political parties in the Committee on Legal Affairs is correct. I know it was the practice of the previous composition, and I very much hope that it will also be the practice of this composition. The violation of fundamental rights and freedoms should certainly be a cross-political issue, one across political parties. The same goes for the whole area of internal security, internal security, with national defence in mind. There is certainly a need for more statesmanship in discussions in these areas in this Chamber, for us to dissect matters in substance, not just on the basis of a political programme. I very much hope that this draft, which we have delivered today, will be the basis for the substantive debate, rather than simply passing through the formal procedural stages and then falling out of Parliament's procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U39	Thank you, good co-worker! Please ask Peep Aru, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, it is a difficult but very necessary issue to deal with. Unfortunately, according to established practice, non-notification of restrictions on the fundamental rights of individuals has become the rule. So it is rather a rule, although there should be an exception, and, of course, an exception based on the provisions laid down by law. There are no statistics on this, but the share of non-reporting in the total number of cases is, unfortunately, pretty high. The Group of the Reform Party discussed the problems raised by the Chancellor of Justice quite thoroughly. We decided that we would certainly support this proposal. Having taken part in the meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and having listened to the debate with open ears today, I am really pleased that the representatives of the various political parties can understand the need to resolve this problem more or less in the same way. I'm sure it'll give us hope that we'll be taking it seriously soon. The joint committee meeting was also positive with the fact that both the prosecutor's office and the Ministry of Justice basically supported the Chancellor of Justice's approach and were very positive about moving forward. There was a slight dispute as to whether to proceed along the path proposed by the Chancellor of Justice, perhaps on a case-by-case basis, or to take the law as a whole. But it's actually just a nuance. However, the issue raised by the Chancellor of Justice today is not the only problem with restricting the fundamental rights of individuals, there are other nuances that probably need to be refined by the legislator. Before long, the committees will have another meeting with the Chancellor of Justice to solve this problem more widely and to analyse other aspects that need to be polished. In any case, the Reform Party Group is ready for this work, and I believe that we will also succeed in this composition, so that, indeed, the violation of fundamental human rights is only possible to the extent that it is urgently necessary to ensure security in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U41	Thank you very much, good fellow. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. And as provided for in the procedure for processing this item, we must also vote on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Let's start preparing the vote. Can we go to the vote? Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The proposal was supported. In accordance with § 152 of the Law and Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu, I propose to the Legal Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Surveillance Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you! The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U42	We will go to the second item, which is the first reading of Bill No 3 of the Law on the Amendment of the State Assets Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair to Riigikogu member Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U43	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft is to harmonise the remuneration of companies in which the State has at least the power of decision and of directors of foundations established by the State with that of senior civil servants. Upon the entry into force of the Act amending the State Property Act, initiated by the Central Party Group, it will be ensured that the salary of the President of the Republic of Estonia, together with the representation fee, would be the limit of which the members of the board of directors of state companies and foundations established by the state would no longer serve. According to the Constitution, the President of the Republic has the highest responsibility in Estonia, but we now have a situation where the salary of the Head of State and the salaries of ministers are lower than those of a member of the board of directors of a company with the decision-making power of a state. In this respect, the salaries of the managers of state-owned enterprises also increased in the years of the economic crisis, when most of the salaries of employees of these state-owned enterprises were either reduced or frozen. We believe that the driver's salary must be in line with responsibility, but we cannot take one company differently from the rest of the country. We know that in the years of recession, the private sector also significantly cut the salaries of both employees and board members. It is interesting why the government will listen to employers if they do not want to raise the minimum wage by referring to the ongoing crisis this year, but if the head of the Confederation of Employers points out that the managers of state companies have been overpaid and the annual wages of more than million kroons are causing great resentment among entrepreneurs, it will not be put into anything. Instead, our draft has been commissioned from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, nor is it against the Constitution to set a salary limit for board members. No, it's not. This analysis also highlights two aspects which should be addressed more seriously in the context of the recession years with ordinary workers. Obviously this is not specifically the subject of this draft, but it is a matter of salaries. The analysis department has said that when we talk about salaries, attention should be paid to the UN General Assembly resolution of 10 December 1948, which says that every employee has the right to a fair and satisfactory remuneration that guarantees a decent living for himself and his family and, if necessary, is complemented by other social security instruments. I would point out that the salary limit for managers of state-owned enterprises would be EUR 6 000 per month, which should guarantee its livelihood. The second document, to which attention should be given, is the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights opened for signature in New York in 1966, Article 7 of which obliges the signatory countries to recognise the right of everyone to fair and favourable working conditions, in particular compensation which guarantees all workers a minimum of fair pay and equal pay for equal work and satisfactory living conditions for themselves and their families. As far as state companies are concerned, for example, in Eesti Post last year, the salary of letter carriers has been reduced by 17%, while the salary of board members has been increased by 17%. So such international resolutions, which are very exemplary to us, also point to the fact that the salaries of the managers of state companies could be dealt with. When this draft was discussed in the committee, the question arose that, in fact, the remuneration of the members of the board was determined by the board and why it was necessary to amend the law. Ministers or ministries have sent competent people to the councils, and there are members of the Riigikogu who belong to the councils of state companies where salaries have been raised lately and where salaries significantly exceed the President's salary. When I was in front of the Riigikogu hall with the same bill two years ago, I had to say that those members of the Riigikogu who should be responsible only belong to the Reform Party Group. Times have changed, and the IRL has renounced its principle that members of the Riigikogu should not belong to the councils of state companies, and now they also belong to the IRL MPs. If asked by specific people, Riigikogu member Kalle Palling could tell us why Sandor Liive's salary rose by 8.2% last year and thus exceeded the President's salary more than twice. He could also explain why not only the Chairman of the Board of Eesti Energia, but also the four board members have a higher basic fee than the President. In addition, they are paid more than four months' extra. Similarly, Peep Aru could explain why the Chairman of the Board of Estonian Railways deserved an income increase of 14.3% compared to last year. And Kalev Lillo could talk about why the functions and responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board of Eesti Lootsi are as great as the President of the Republic of Estonia. In fact, the situation is that there are several councils that have managed salaries very well. I know that Taavi Rõivas always modestly draws attention to the importance of his own person on this subject, and he has kept the salaries of the members of the management board of Riigi Kinnisvara AS under control. But there are councils that can't handle it. With this specific draft, the Riigikogu would give the councils legitimate guidelines for making specific decisions on salaries. The previous Minister of Justice has also said that the Riigikogu, as the legislator, has the right to take a decision which says that the executive power may not instruct members of the council to raise the salaries of the governing bodies of private persons beyond a certain limit. Without this clear will from the legislator, the councils have not kept their salaries under control. By the way, such guidelines have already been drawn up, so it is not right to say that we are restricting the freedom to conduct a business with such a bill; the wages of public enterprises have been a concern in the past. Perhaps you remember that one big problem was that the basic fees were normal, but the bonuses tended to exceed the annual salary in some extreme cases. That is when the Riigikogu passed the law on the move, which is a restriction in § 86 of the State Property Act, which states that bonuses may not exceed four times the average fee paid to the member of the management board during the previous financial year. So in a situation where the boards have not been able to control the salaries of the managers of state companies, legislative changes have already been made. We believe that the Councils must be directed forward. If the council fails, the Riigikogu must give clearer codes of conduct. When we discussed this wage reduction for the first time in 2009, then Taavi Veskimägi, a member of the parliament at that time, said in the Economic Commission for Economic Affairs that this was an ideological approach, either to save the payroll by concentrating ordinary workers and cutting wages, or to show solidarity with all the leaders of state companies. Now, without a public competition, he has himself become the head of a state-owned company whose salary exceeds the President's salary. I suppose that's a pretty good example. It has been warned that if we were to curb wages, we would not find qualified people to run state companies. Here in the Riigikogu there are 101 people, all of whom are probably very competent to run large companies, it was said with humor. We'll find qualified people. Employers also confirm that wages equal to the salary of the President or Prime Minister are completely competitive in Estonian private business. True, I was only talking about companies, but in this case this amendment will add some foundations to Eesti Energia, Estonian Railways, Tallinn Port, Elering and Estonian Loots. They are mostly medically related, such as the University of Tartu Hospital and the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital. It was also said in the Commission that, last time, when our proposal was to set a salary limit of EUR 5200, which was the salary of the President and the Prime Minister, it is now EUR 6 000. Will life become so much more expensive so quickly? No, we have written down both the president's salary and representation expenses in the bill as a border. It should be borne in mind that all the salaries of these drivers take into account that their annual income should not exceed EUR 72724 and that both salaries and bonuses and other bonuses are intended here. Once again, this bill follows the same principle as the previous Riigikogu when it adopted the salary system for senior civil servants. The draft will help to harmonise the remuneration of companies in which the State has at least the power of decision and of members of the boards of foundations established by the state with the same system of salaries of senior civil servants. In both draft laws, both in what has already been approved and in what we have in front of us today, the increase in the cost of living has been taken into account. The State Assets Act is supplemented by § 861, which determines the principles of indexation of the threshold and the procedure for the indexation of the amount of fees payable to board members to be indexed to an annual index of 50% of the arithmetic average of the annual growth in the consumer price index and the annual growth in the income of social tax. The index is defined to the accuracy of three decimal places. So this ceiling will not be frozen for decades, if the price increase in Estonia is not slowed down, then the draft will help the heads of state companies to cope. I thank you, and I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will support the maintenance of this bill! I'd be happy to ask you some questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U44	Thank you, good waitress. There are questions for you. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U45	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If we approve of this proposal, will it also result in a reduction in the salaries of other top managers, middle managers, engineers working in companies, if the highest salaries are currently over EUR 6 000? How does this affect the possible mass exodus of people that the Centre Party has been talking about quite a lot recently? If highly qualified people had to leave Estonia, it would be very bad for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U46	Mass emigration is certainly a major problem in Estonia, but the individual heads of state companies who work under the management service contract do not pose a particular threat to the increase in mass emigration. The Riigikogu will not change the employment contracts of people who work on the basis of an employment contract. And the claim that the heads of state companies would leave if their wages were equal to the President's or Prime Minister's salary is purely hypothetical. We will probably find qualified people who are willing to run, for example, railways or ports or Elering for such a salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U47	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U48	Thank you! Good waitress! Have you thought about this, too, that this proposal may not suddenly increase the risk of corruption in these companies? As we know, the higher the amount of wages, the greater the liability. Can there be no risk of other methods of money being transferred through other or third companies in order to increase income from some other channel?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U49	We expect that there will be sufficient oversight opportunities for public enterprises. In fact, this role should also be played by the Council, which will enable the heads of state companies to receive a salary that is clearly legal. At the moment, when the councils are willing to pay the managers of state companies a salary that repeats the President's salary, there is nothing more to blame for them than simply to say that there is obviously no balance of responsibility with the benefits. But if you are now referring to the risk that the councils will approve any bonus packages, that is why we have stipulated in the draft law that bonuses and other bonuses will also be included in this marginal wage. That there should be no unexpected bonuses that could even exceed the basic salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U50	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In order to be able to decide quite clearly on this draft, I ask you: what exactly do you mean by state enterprises in the context of this draft, and what is the difference between their business activities in the business landscape and those of other companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U52	Our draft concerns those managers who work in companies in which the state has at least a decision-making power, and it also concerns those members of the board of foundations established by the state, whose salary currently exceeds EUR 6000 per month. The question was why we do not deal with private companies under this law. Because we are here giving instructions to the executive by the will of the legislator. Here there is no attempt to address the pay system more broadly; we only want to bring the wage system of the companies mentioned in the draft into a uniform system with the wage system of senior civil servants.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U53	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U54	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In the Commission, you said that Sweden has already implemented a similar salary cap. We examined this claim and it turned out that this is not actually the case. In the meantime, since the Commission meeting and before this debate, has anything changed in Sweden?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U55	I spoke at the time about Swedish state-owned companies, which introduced a cap on bonuses. There, bonuses were reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U56	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U57	Thank you. Dear waitress, The debate we've developed here can draw some pretty interesting conclusions. It is said that the salary is high because the responsibility is so great that it follows that the President of the Republic's responsibility to the state is twice that of the Head of Eesti Energia. Why don't we take a look at it from this side so we can regulate the president's salary so it's a little higher than the top wages from the largest state enterprise? There's a point. We could discuss this option between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U58	Indeed, it would mean a double wage increase for the President. From the logic that responsibility and remuneration must be balanced, we can compare the President with the Head of Eesti Energia, but we can certainly also compare the responsibility of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications with that of the Head of Estonian Pilot. It is now claimed that a minister who is responsible for a very broad field is worth the same amount of remuneration as the leader of the Estonian pilot. In my opinion, there is an obvious imbalance here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U59	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U60	Thank you, good manager. Dear colleague Kadri! I ask you to assess the situation in Eesti Energia, which is the main addressees of this draft salary, in particular for the sake of the verbatim report. In Eesti Energia, an IT call has been made, which is 9 million euros, or more than 130 million kroons of my money and that of other people in Estonia. For the second month, however, it is not possible to give an electric reading! Is this the responsibility that is mentioned in the case of the leaders of Eesti Energia? Should they be paid such a high salary for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U61	The leaders of Eesti Energia also stand out for their previous year's incomes among the managers of other state companies: their performance is considerably higher. Sandor Liive, Chairman of the Management Board of Eesti Energia, had a basic salary of 1695464 kroons last year, while the premium was over 762000 kroons. A similar proportion also applied to all four other members of the board of Eesti Energia. It even appears to be a breach of this provision that Paragraph 86 (1) of the State Assets Act in force states that the premium may not exceed four times the average fee paid to a member of the management board in the previous financial year. I have not heard very specific explanations for which these leaders deserve such a reward. Indeed, there are a number of questions and repeated inquiries have been made in this Chamber of Riigikogu regarding the management of Eesti Energia and the feasibility of investments, but they are now definitely at the top of the ranking.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U62	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U63	Thank you! Honourable waitress! For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask whether it should be concluded from this previous question that the Centre Party has not yet reached an agreement on this draft, and you want to change it, instead of raising the President's salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U64	I think it was an intellectually interesting proposal. However, I believe that you also agree with me that the President of Estonia does not have less responsibility and less responsibility than any head of state company.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U65	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U66	Thank you. Of course, some may feel that it is strange when people change one decision or another and continue to think about it even when they decide. Right now, I think something like paying off a personal farm and forgiving some kind of credit for millions of kroons was probably stuck in the closet. I mean, you could take it all into the system. In this Chamber it sometimes sounds that the draft is not very well drafted, between the first reading and the second reading, perhaps we are discussing the matter. That's what I propose. How do you feel about this? Can we discuss it between two readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U67	The draft of the same principle has also been in the Chamber of the Riigikogu in 2009 and 2010. In 2009, during the peak year of the economic downturn, the salaries of the heads of state companies were struck by surprise. Came together because at the same time hundreds of people were made redundant from these same companies. But then the draft law was voted out at first reading because it was said that the Councils could carry out their tasks. The same was said in 2010: that the councils are able to draw the right conclusions; it is nice that the topic was raised in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, but it does not need regularisation. We are here with our proposal for the third time. We see that all these difficult years of recession have only increased the salaries of the managers of state-owned enterprises, so that further discussion would certainly be useful. I know two years ago, the current President of the IRL Group, Urmas Reinsalu, issued a press release to support this draft. The principles change over time. I think this debate is already needed to emphasise the responsibility of the people who represent the Riigikogu in these councils. The procedure for the draft should certainly continue and its swift vote simply means overlooking the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U68	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I agree and admit that indeed, with companies in a monopoly position, we have had problems, whether it be Eesti Energia or Tallinn Water or whatever. But I would like to ask in the context of this particular draft. Assume that the State constitutes, on the basis of its capital, a company for the provision of certain services and private capital for the provision of the same services. If, according to your bill, we now determine the salaries of the managers of a company based on public capital, can this not mean violating the principle of equal treatment under the Constitution? In the case of private capital, we cannot set wages, but companies operate in the same business landscape under the same commercial code.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U70	This contradiction with the Constitution was sought and not found. Once again, we are talking about companies in which the country has at least a decision-making power. It is therefore not appropriate to give an example of Tallinn Water. As you remember, in 2000, when the coalition of the Seven Dwarves of Jüri Manor, the Fatherland Union, the Reform Party, the Moderates and a couple of Russian parties, it was decided to privatise the majority shares of Tallinn Water and there the majority decision was granted. I think it was the wrong decision that was made in 2000. Jüri Manor signed contracts that gave a private investor the right to receive additional income from AS Tallinna Vesi as an advisory fee. When we talk about how money is being taken out of it, the same contract envisaged 10000 to 20000 hours in the first five years and 3000 to 6,000 hours in the next ten years, with a fee of $125 per hour. So the privatisation agreement provided an opportunity to withdraw money from the company. This is not about today's draft, but I think that this example must be remembered every time someone comes to mind with some evil new privatisation plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U71	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U72	Thank you, manager. Good Kadri, I have listened carefully to the comments made by Mikhail Stalnukhin and my good colleague Imre Sooäär, and I have a question that this bill is not a few weeks late. If it had come a little earlier, maybe we'd have more candidates in the presidential election.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U73	I think we must certainly prioritise the President's institution and the round of nominations is not yet over. We'll meet here, I'll remind you, on August 29th, and then each of the 21 ambassadors will be able to present their candidate. But this bill is certainly up to date in that it raises the issue on the agenda, who is most responsible here in Estonia. According to the Constitution, it is the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U74	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A little while ago, there was a concern here that if we cut the salaries of the heads of state companies, this could encourage their mass emigration. Is the current situation where the President's salary is lower than that of the heads of state companies not conducive to the exodus of the President and other high-ranking authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U76	I hope that if we have sent six good politicians to Brussels for five years, there will always be a chance that some of them will return to be president. But when it comes to the competitiveness of the managers of state-owned enterprises, it is indeed different companies. The example of Riigi Kinnisvara AS is one such company, for which there are quite a few analogues in the private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U77	Good waitress, I apologize to you! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. And this noise comes not from this speech chair of the Riigikogu, but from discussions between members of the Riigikogu. I beg you: we respect the waitress and respect those colleagues who wish to listen to the debate on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U78	Thank you, good manager. Actually, it's good to see how exciting this bill is. Discussions should certainly continue. I also believe that on the floor of the coalition it is early to vote this draft out of the procedure. But, yes, there are plenty of good managers of state-owned enterprises who are paid less than the President and are still doing this work with full commitment and will certainly be competitive in the private sector, but they still consider this public-owned company's salary to be sufficient motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U79	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U80	Thank you. The female elf asks. If there is only one president and, as long as there is not yet a woman as President of Estonia, it would make me uninvited to set such a salary limit, because the gap between women's and men's wages in Estonia would not be reduced in any way by this bill. On the contrary, we would set meaningless limits for capable female leaders. After all, there are considerably more seats in public enterprises than this one presidential seat. How do you think this gender pay gap will solve here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U81	I think this is about creating a completely level playing field. This salary limit applies to both male and female managers. I believe that our excellent female leaders will also be able to participate in the next competition if they are to be public again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U82	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U83	Dear waitress, The examples you mentioned concerned companies that are active on the Estonian market and whose market share is quite large, e.g. Eesti Energia and Elering. However, there are also known companies in Estonia that operate on a global market, such as Estonian Air. Their lives are already pretty complicated. Do you not think that such restrictions will reduce their competitive advantage? How can they search for personnel in the global market and offer conditions that are equivalent to those of their competitors?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U84	Let's face it, Estonian Air, with his driver's salary, doesn't belong on this list. His salary limit would not be reduced at this time. If you want the list to be affected, I will not name the names, I will appoint the Chairman of Eesti Energia and four members of the Board, the Chairman of the Estonian Railways and the Management Board, the Chairman of the Port of Tallinn and the Member of the Management Board, the Chairman of Elering and the Chairman of the Estonian Loots, in addition to the foundations of the North-Estonian Regional Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U85	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U86	Thank you. Good waitress! Thank you for a very meaningful presentation. I hope this bill will remain in the process. I have a specific question. We are talking a lot about Eesti Energia and the Port of Tallinn here, but perhaps we could also talk a little bit about whether private sector managers can now offer such a salary as the managers of state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U87	This is a question that has been asked several times by the newspaper Äripäev, for example. Private company managers are not obliged to disclose their income. Only stock exchange companies are obliged to do so. I'm carrying a business day with the stock exchange managers' salaries. There are companies where managers earn more than the President and there are companies where managers earn less than the President. I am here relying on Enn Veskimäe, Chairman of the Management Board of the Confederation of Employers, who said that more than one million kroons' wages are causing justified resentment in Estonian entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U88	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U89	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'll take care of a statement. I didn't send out any press releases about supporting this bill or not supporting it, as you said. The second line concerns your quite frank statement as if major shareholders would accept that some money is transferred from Tallinn Water through management contracts. And in a situation where shareholders, including the city of Tallinn, have approved a request for an increase in the price of water and submitted it to the Competition Authority, which, indeed, has very reasonably rejected this request in this form. The current law does not allow for such manoeuvres at the expense of domestic consumers. What motives have these problems been left unresolved in the draft law, and how can such behaviour be assessed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U90	Dear colleague Urmas Reinsalu! You had a very lively conversation in the back of the hall, and I guess that's why you didn't exactly hear my statement. Unlike last night's Internet portal Delfi put your words in my mouth, I recalled your interview two years ago for "Actual Camera" when you said that the pay limit for the heads of state companies would be reasonable. There are traces of that on the Internet. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? As far as Tallinn Water is concerned, I also stopped at this company. But this bill cannot touch Tallinn Water because in 2000 the Mayor of Tallinn, Jüri Manor, who represented the Fatherland Union, and the coalition he led decided to sell the majority shares of Tallinn Water, and the Mayor Jüri Manor, on the light hand, signed contracts which gave a private investor the right to receive additional income from AS Tallinn Water as a consultancy fee. The volume of advice was planned for the first five years from 10,000 to 20,000 hours, in the next ten years, i.e. it is still valid for between 3 000 and 6 000 hours. The average price of the consultancy fee for the so-called associate company was $125 per hour. So the question you've just asked me doesn't concern this bill first. And secondly, it would probably be more appropriate to recall the historical history of your party with Mart Laar, the then current chairman of your party.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U91	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U92	I have a very specific question. Suppose some loss-making state-owned company makes a long-term contract with its manager and offers him a performance fee depending on the company's performance, and the company makes profits and its manager's salary increases as a result. Will this law govern this situation retroactively, or will such a long-term contract remain in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U93	It is currently not possible to conclude such a contract; it is illegal under the law already in force. Paragraph 86 (2) of the State Assets Act states that the total remuneration of the head of the State Enterprise, i.e. the additional remuneration paid during the financial year, must not exceed four times the average monthly fee paid to the management board member in the previous financial year. So it's not possible to pay any more of these big bonuses. There is a limit to this because it was once tested in Estonian Loto, for example. The bonus for the chairman of the Estonian Loto Board was higher than his official annual salary. So this line has already been drawn, there is no chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U94	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U95	Honourable waitress! Both the previous version of the Public Water Supply and Sewerage Act and the new regulation of the Public Water Supply and Sewerage Act, as amended by the Monopoly Control Act, provide that only reasonable costs can be taken into account in the pricing of water. And the law is over the treaty, whatever those contracts are. This issue has been discussed for a long time and a common understanding has been reached with both the Chancellor of Justice and the Competition Authority. You claim that these are unjustified costs and that the shareholders involved in so-called management contracts accept that these funds will be transferred to consumers. I have a question: why does the city of Tallinn accept this? Why has this bill not solved such problems? Why tolerate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U96	The short answer is that this law does not change that. The longer answer is that in 2000 the city government led by the Patriotic Union made such a decision with probably too light hands and took on the responsibilities of the city of Tallinn, of which the next city governments, who do not bear the co-responsibility, in a simple way, cannot give up without going to court. We've met the head of the Competition Authority, he's predicting a very long and expensive court drama. Someone's gonna have to pay for the mistake that the Mayor of the Patriotic League made back then. And I'm sure you'll find that out as a result of the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U97	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Arto Asa, member of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I'm so honored to be here before you. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Estonian Central Party at its meeting on 19 May 2011. The author's report was presented by the honourable colleague, Kadri Simson. It should be said that the same proposal was also discussed in the Riigikogu in 2009 and 2010. A year ago, the proposed limit was another EUR 5200. Kadri Simson presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft. In short, the aim is to limit the remuneration of the directors of public undertakings and foundations to EUR 6000 per month. According to government data, which coincides with the data of the drafter, at least this was the case in the Commission, in 2010, four out of 34 companies with state powers exceeded the basic fee of the management board member. These were Eesti Energia, Elering, Estonian Railways and the Port of Tallinn. If the premium is taken into account, the fee of the member of the management board of AS Eesti Loots also exceeded that limit. None of the foundations established by the state paid fees to members of the management board in the previous year above the threshold proposed in the draft. Therefore, only five companies would be directly concerned by this draft. As rapporteur for the commission, I presented the positions of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Government of the Republic and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu on the draft issue to the members of the committee. The other members of the Commission then asked questions and expressed their views. As the initiator has already presented the arguments in favour of the draft, I will mention here the three main arguments against which the debate was based. First, by setting a maximum statutory limit on the remuneration paid to board members, the State may significantly impede the competitiveness and development of the companies in which it participates. Let us acknowledge that the companies listed are the largest and most strategic companies in Estonia, which have a major impact on the Estonian economy as a whole. They also have to cope with international competition in their fields of activity. The members of the management board must therefore be found among the best candidates, with the need to pay them competitive remuneration compared to the private sector and also taking into account international wage conditions. The Commercial Code provides that the directors must take into account that remuneration is commensurate with the duties of a member of the management board and the financial situation of the company when determining the remuneration of members of the management board. On the basis of the existing regulations, the boards of companies and foundations already have sufficient opportunities to impose a reasonable fee on board members. It is also possible to reduce the remuneration, which has been done in a very large number of cases. Secondly, the proposed draft is not in line with the concept of State Assets Act. The State Assets Act is based on the principle that all legal persons governed by private law should generally be subject to a single regulation, regardless of whether the company is a shareholder in the State or not. The aim is to guarantee the freedom to conduct a business as a constitutional right, one of which is to ensure free competition. Let it be made clear that there are no state companies in Estonia, there are state-owned private companies. They are not part of the public sector, their employees are not in public service. Thirdly, the effects of the draft, its implementation and international experience have not been analysed in sufficient detail. On the basis of the information available, there are no similar legal restrictions in the countries of the European Union. Finally, the Commission's decision. Although there was also agreement between the initiator and the members of the commission on a number of issues, it was decided to send draft law No 3 amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, to the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 2 June 2011 and to propose to the Assembly that the draft be rejected at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U99	Thank you! Good waitress, one question for you. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U100	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It is claimed that the high remuneration of the managers of state-owned enterprises is due to their responsibility, to the needs of competition and to whatever. We know that quite a number of public enterprises have shown very clear problems. I will once again give an example of this 9 million euro IT procurement in Eesti Energia. It is as if the members of the board should be responsible for this. Has the Economic Commission discussed that one of the management boards of Eesti Energia could at least be called out to make it clear why the citizens of the Republic of Estonia are not able to pay their electricity bills normally and present electricity examples normally? Or has the Commission not discussed this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U101	Thank you. The Commission has met the management of Eesti Energia a few times during this short working time. Next week we will meet the leaders of Eesti Energia in Ida-Virumaa. We will certainly raise this issue as well, but we did not discuss it in the Commission on a specific draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U102	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue on the issue of Aivar Riisalu, on responsibility. Please answer which, in your opinion, is more responsible for the development of the Estonian state, either the Chairman of the Board of Eesti Energia or the President of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U104	I agree with you that the most important person and institution in Estonia is the President. But I find it a little petty to bring the monetary and salary issues into discussion with the President's institution, which reduces the importance of the President's institution. I have never heard of any presidential candidate, even less of the President, that he would do or do this job for money, or that the salary is very important to him, or that the salary is the reason for this appointment. When we are talking about a business company, the responsibility of the managers of Eesti Energia is, of course, very great in financial terms. I would remind you that Eesti Energia paid 1.4 billion kroons of dividends to the state budget last year, which has been paid by teachers, doctors and other people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U105	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I think that, as a member of the Estonian Air Council, you are one of the most competent to answer this question. Estonian Air is known to be not one of the companies affected by this draft law. Does it? Is it already, since yesterday? It sounded like it didn't before, but tell me if it does or doesn't. However, there was just a change of leader in Estonian Air. Do you not think that the person who was elected would be presently present if this restriction were already in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U107	I am not a member of the Board of Estonian Air and therefore I do not know the remuneration policy there, the salary number of the new chairman of the board, nor the results and conditions of the competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U108	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U109	Thank you. Good speaker, you said that the Commission's proposal is to vote this draft out of the procedure. At the same time, the citizens of Estonia are very interested in this topic and are very topical. Is it democratic, then, to end this debate immediately?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U110	I am here representing the Commission and, as I said, with 5 votes: 4 the Commission made such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-02_U111	Good waitress! I thank you for your report and your answers. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. The position of the Steering Committee is that draft No 3 should be rejected at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject draft proposal No 3 of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu, 26 members of the Riigikogu against and no abstentions. Bill No 3 of the Act amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, has been rejected at first reading and will therefore fall out of the procedure. The second item is closed. Today we have no more agenda items. Thank you! I wish you strength in your work! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 11.51 a.m.
