ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic shall initiate a draft Act approving Annex 8 to the International Convention on the Harmonization of the Conditions of Border Control of Goods. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U3	Thank you. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U4	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of questioning our esteemed Prime Minister, Andrus Ansip, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. Its content, as you can all imagine, is an issue that is in the media, and certainly among the people and our politicians, the number one: the trade in residence permits. We have addressed this question to Prime Minister Ansip in particular, although many questions could be answered more substantially by the Minister of the Interior. But we have just chosen the Prime Minister because, in the light of the whole event, the Minister of the Interior cannot trust all the claims very much at times, it seems that the Minister of the Interior should be forced to control himself. We have nine questions concerning many aspects of the same trade in residence permits. Above all, we are certainly interested in the content of the relevant so-called investments in Estonia, the purpose of using them, as well as what our Prime Minister thinks about this case, whether or not it is political corruption, especially in the light of the latest Transparency International study. In particular, Estonia fell to three places in this table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U6	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! According to the opposition, we will continue on the same subject. The members of the Centre Party Group have six questions for the Prime Minister, with which we express our concern about Estonia's international reputation. We want to know how the Prime Minister has decided to behave in this situation and how he appreciates the activities of the Government of the Republic. How has it been possible to share Estonian residence permits uncontrolled? Residence permits are granted by order of the Government of the Republic. On what basis did the Government of the Republic make its decisions? To what extent does the Prime Minister consider the security of the Schengen visa area to be compromised? How the situation has affected Estonia's credibility at international level. The members of the Centre Party Group are also interested in whether the Head of the Government of the Republic, Andrus Ansip, has assessed this to be a matter of power trading and what measures he has decided to take to resolve the situation and avoid further problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U7	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Once again, the theme is Ring School. As we know, Rõngu Municipality built a new schoolhouse that was financed by a loan. The Ministry of Finance introduced, as we remember, loan restrictions on local authorities since 2009, which put Rõngu Municipality in a very difficult situation afterwards. They couldn't take any more credit. Jürgen Ligi, by his decree, restricted it and forbade further borrowing. In addition, the municipality of Rõngu received a fine decided by the State to respect the amount of Rõngu's income tax for 2010, 2011 and 2012 as well as payments from the Equalisation Fund. When the leader of the municipality became a member of a party with the Minister of Finance, the municipality was granted an exception. The percentage was initially reduced because the municipality was in financial difficulties and then the claim was abolished at all. We have several questions about this. Doesn't the law have to be the same for everyone? Why are there no equal treatment of the parishes? Why was Ring an exception? For what reason did the Minister of Finance change his position on the municipality of Rõuge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U9	Thank you. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry for Ken-Marti Vaher, who is still the Minister of the Interior. The inquiry concerns the growth of crime in Estonia. Statistics show that domestic security in the country has been declining in recent months, with more crime, especially among young people. In particular, I have been asked by the Põlva County voters about the situation in Räpina. Räpina, as you know through the media, has been in a lot of trouble lately. People have fallen and died in uncovered wells, but the schoolboys have almost killed one person. The man was left lying in a slot of blood, only miraculously, he reached the doctors, but apparently he will remain sick for a very long time. There are a number of questions for the Minister on this subject. Have these things been dealt with? Who's supposed to deal with this anyway? Who should be responsible for such a thing? We hope that the Minister, in the present state of complexity for his party, will also have time to deal with such a trivial issue as crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U11	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U12	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I and nine other members of the Centre Party Group are pleased to present an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. Its content is phosphorite research. Viru Chemistry Group has informed the public that it wishes to explore the volume, availability, quality and environmental friendliness of phosphorite reserves. According to preliminary information, the company has indicated that the first sampling of the phosphorus field may take place in the next spring summer in Rägavere municipality in Lääne-Virumaa. Insufficient information and lack of information by the Ministry of the Environment have led to ignorance and fear of possible extraction in the inhabitants of Lääne-Virumaa. The project manager of the Viru Chemistry Group, Kalev Kallemets, has confirmed to the local people that it is only research, not mining planning. At the same time, there is no information on the purpose of the research. So far, the Ministry of the Environment has not disclosed whether VKG has applied for a study permit. The real interest of Viru Chemistry Group and the involvement of the Ministry of the Environment in the above process remain unclear. The public has the impression that the company will affect environmental decisions more effectively than the Ministry of the Environment can. National and country-specific research should be dictated by the Ministry; in the current situation, this is done by a private company. In this regard, we have six questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U13	Thank you. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the board and five inquiries. If the draft law complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. And if inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the following messages: First of all, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has appointed a draft law amending the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Health Services Management Act, the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union by the deadline for submitting documents on the basis of the third reading. 5 December at 6 p.m. Secondly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has designated the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Act, the amendment of the Rescue Services Act and the reorganisation of the institutions as a result of the amendment of other laws by the deadline for the submission of 116 documents on the basis of the second reading. 5 December at 6 p.m. Thirdly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the draft State Budget Act 2012 initiated by the Government of the Republic by the deadline for the submission of documents on the basis of the third reading debate s. a 6 December at 6 p.m. Fourthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 1 December Estonia submitted its views on the draft Common European Sales Law Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council to the European Union Commission and appointed a Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft Regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. December 15th at 12:00. Fifthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 1 December, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's Communication on a Single European Infrastructure Growth Package and on a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the Connecting Europe Facility, on a draft for the European Union Commission, and on the position of the Government of the Republic and on the Commission's communication and draft regulation to give an opinion on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Monetary Affairs. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 15 December 2010 at 14 p.m. Sixthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 1 December Estonia submitted its views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on guidelines for trans-European energy infrastructure to the Commission for European Union Affairs and appointed an Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 15 December 2010 at 14 p.m. Seventhly, I have forwarded an inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! 85 delegates registered as present, 16 missing. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have to confirm this week's agenda. It's on your tables. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 81 delegates voted in favour of the draft agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U14	Let's go to today's agenda, i.e. answering questions. The first question to be submitted is the comments of the Auditor General and the weak management of the state (No 53) submitted on 24 October by the Riigikogu members Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendiev, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Kadri Samson, Aivar Riisalu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Leng, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korb, Deniss Borodichi, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Inara Luis and Enn Eesmaa. Mr Tarmo Tamme, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U15	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Very honourable Prime Minister! The 21 members of the Centre Party Group have asked you a question where we are concerned about the ambiguity in relations between local authorities and the state. The President of the Republic, the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office are deeply concerned that the functions of local governments are undefined and there is no financial cover for the performance of these tasks. These institutions can be argued and argued that this is not the full truth, but there is also the judgment of the Supreme Court of 16 March 2010, which states in the resolution: '1. To recognise as contrary to the Constitution that there are no legislative acts that (1) lay down which obligations imposed by law on local government units are self-governing and which are state-owned; (2) to distinguish the funds allocated to local government units from the funds earmarked for the decision-making and organisation of local life issues from those intended for the fulfilment of public obligations and to provide for the financing of the public liabilities imposed on local government units by law from the state budget. ' If every citizen of a country has a judgment to enforce, the Government of the Republic has been unable to respond to that judgment within a year and a half. The question is, why hasn't it been done today? The Prime Minister has been asked four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U16	Thank you, Tarmo Tamm! Please, Prime Minister, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U17	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! Let it be said at the beginning that the 2011 state budget is also in line with the Supreme Court ruling and the functions of local government and the tasks of the state are clearly separated. But these tasks cannot be separated by a single act, it is a process. And in time, these tasks can change. So that's what's going on. I would remind you that the state budget adopted by you, or rather by your predecessors, is in line with what the Supreme Court has decided. But I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'How and when does the state plan to comply with the Supreme Court judgment of March 2010, where the state was accused of not being divided into state and self-governing functions? ' The task arising from the Supreme Court's judgment to set out which obligations imposed on local governments are self-governing and which state were fulfilled at the end of 2010 in the course of the preparation of the 2011 state budget. This does not preclude, however, that, when laws are analysed and amended, the intrinsic nature of the tasks may be re-established and also changed. First of all, by placing each new task on local authorities or changing the duties of local authorities in the law, the intrinsic nature of the task must also be assessed. Secondly, it is normal in the development of the public sector that certain functions at different stages of development may fall within the remit of different levels of administration. It is not true that the execution of the Supreme Court's judgment is not dealt with in the distinction between local governments and state functions and in the organization of financing. In the light of this solution, the Ministry of the Interior addressed all the ministries of the sector in order to identify the public tasks that are under their administration, which are carried out by local authorities. The national self-government associations also received a similar task. On the basis of the data received, a distinction was already made in the 2011 budget. As a result of the analysis, purely national tasks carried out by local authorities were only in the domain of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Culture. In view of the allegations that the analysis carried out in 2010 was insufficient, on 20 September this year the Ministry of the Interior asked the ministries and local government associations to further analyse the functions and intrinsic ownership of the local government in the course of the work of the budget working groups in accordance with the methodology established by the Ministry of the Interior. This methodology is available to everyone on the website of the Ministry of Internal Affairs www.sisministeerium.ee/rk-solved. Together with this request, the Ministry of the Interior submitted its own table of local government tasks per sector. Feedback from ministries and national self-government associations was expected by 1 December. These tasks, for which the national associations of local authorities disagree with the ministries, will continue to be negotiated in the sectoral working groups of the delegation of the Government Commission and the Municipalities Cooperation Council. If a consensus is reached within the working group on the task or tasks, these funds shall also be distinguished in the national budget. If no consensus is reached, the dissenting opinions shall be submitted to the negotiating table of the delegation of the Government Commission and the Municipal Associations Cooperation Council. The sectoral working groups will meet this year according to their own timetable. Therefore, the argument that the Supreme Court judgment has not been enforced cannot be accepted. The second question: 'Why does the country not continue to have an action plan that would ensure equal access and quality of public services for all people? ' We're probably talking about local government services. I have to admit, this question makes me sigh deeply. The services offered by local governments do not, in principle, need to be of the same quality throughout the Republic of Estonia and do not need to be available in the same way. The state must provide local authorities with an independent income base by law. Local authorities must have the full right to use their income base at their discretion. This principle of local self-government autonomy is also enshrined in our constitution. If anyone now wants all local authorities to offer exactly the same services according to one standard, then let him know that this will lead to the re-establishment of village councils in the Republic of Estonia. The municipality would cease to be a municipality and would simply perform the functions of central authority in villages and municipalities. This certainly should not be an objective in a democratic country. Local authorities must always be able to compete with neighbouring municipalities and other municipalities. In a European local democracy, such a competitive moment is absolutely necessary; it is a local government. People must have the opportunity to express their will, and the opportunity to vote with their feet. Some people like local governments where the rates are lower, where the income is lower, and where the individual costs for the municipality are lower, they believe that they can do better on their own than under the conditions of the municipality's guardianship, and prefer to live in such a local government. In other local governments, people prefer to pay more taxes, they want to live in a place where there is greater patronage of the state or local government. The Republic of Estonia should therefore not aim to provide all residents with exactly the same services in all local governments, with the same wide spectrum and with the same depth. The third question: 'The State Transport Development Plan 2006 to 2013 provides for the identification of the investment needs of local roads by the end of 2007. For what reasons has the government not begun this activity? 'Transport Development Plan 2006 to 2013' is an indicator under Action 1.2 'Renewing the public financing system for transport' of assessing the investment needs of local roads in cooperation with the local government associations with a deadline of 31 December 2007. It was originally planned as a single study, which should have shown the need for local government roads to invest at a certain point in time. During the preparation of the work's initial task, it became apparent that it was neither possible nor reasonable to carry out the study in the planned form and volume, as no basic data were required for this purpose. The obstacle is the fact that a large majority of local authorities do not keep proper balance-based accounts of their assets, i.e. local roads, as the Road Administration and some local authorities do according to the law. This fact was also pointed out by the National Audit Office in its audit. In order to keep track of their assets, local authorities need to properly inventory their roads and reflect the actual existence of roads in the national road register in accordance with the Basic Regulation for the establishment and maintenance of the national road register. This is laid down in Decree No 199 of 28 July 2005 of the Government of the Republic. I agree that the activities set out in the transport development plan are mandatory for the State, but it is essential that local authorities fulfil their obligations under the law and thereby create prerequisites for carrying out the tasks set out in the development plan. Question four. The answer is no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U18	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's start with the questions. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U19	Thank you. Prime Minister! As there is interest in weak government in today's inquiry, I have another question for you. Today, an online portal conveys the opinion of the Employers' Association. They confirm that you have not taken into account the advice of employers since 2007 when drawing up the state budget and managing the state. As you do not take account of the opinion of the contractors, it is known for a long time, and it seems to me that you have not taken very much into account or taken an interest in the report of the National Audit Office. This is the question of your day-to-day policy: have you, as the head of government, who you run the country and are now obliged to answer this question, been interested in the activities of two ministers, the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Party and the Minister of the Interior, Vaher? Are they on the right track from the point of view of government or are they smeared with something?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U20	I assume they've been on the right track. And I'll stick to my assumption until proven otherwise. But there is certainly a need for a very thorough investigation and analysis on this issue. Conclusions can be drawn once this analysis has been prepared. But now your claim that the Government of the Republic has not taken into account the opinion of employers. I have a relatively skeptical view of this argument. We have very much taken into account the opinion of employers, perhaps not much of the inappropriate positions of the Estonian Employers' Confederation. And I have to admit, the country has done quite well. Different credit rating agencies, too, in Moody's, Standard and Poor's, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has also pointed out throughout this period that the rating of the Estonian state is strong and has been raised primarily because public finances are in very good shape and it balances some of the misrepresentation of private sector finances. I do not want to contrast the public sector with the private sector in any way now, but those people who are coming up hard to point the finger at public finances could have some insight into these positions of credit rating agencies, as well as the positions of the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. From all these points of view, they have confirmed my claim that it was possible to give Estonia an AA rating only because the government finances are in very good order. It's exemplary!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U21	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U22	Thank you. Prime Minister! I am very sorry that you did not answer the most important part of Mr Leng's question and skilfully shunned the question, as almost always. But if you ask me about the Auditor General's report, it was really a very concise and interesting document this year, which was presented to us quite recently in this Chamber. The Auditor General pointed out that the documents and reports of all kinds of government do not relate at all to the shortcomings in the country. They are in the same fine tone as you have just demonstrated. He said that there was no mention of unemployment, there was no mention of the poor financial situation of the municipalities, there was no mention of poverty at all. However, I ask: to what extent have you now drawn serious conclusions from the report of the National Audit Office? And if so, what specifically?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U23	After all, dealing with unemployment has been seen by the entire Estonian people. Of course, you don't like it when I talk about things the way they are in this chair. Because it seems to you that if I congratulate the people of Estonia, as well as the Riigikogu and the government, you feel that this is very inappropriate. However, if the government did not deal with unemployment and the only one who does unemployment would be Edgar Savisaar, the chairman of your very beloved party, who dresses people in neon vests and then makes them circulate along Tallinn, it would not be possible that unemployment in Estonia has decreased twice over the last year and a half. And yet it has happened! And here you might ask: how did this happen to us? We are not only talking about registered unemployment; we are also talking about unemployment calculated according to the ILO standard. The reduction over the last year and a half is twice in one case, almost twice in the other. How did that happen to us? I can explain once again how basically this happened to us then. Firstly, we have kept our public finances in order. We have ensured the credibility of Estonia's investment climate. Estonia has been attractive to foreign direct investment. These foreign investments have created new jobs in Estonia. In new jobs, the economy has grown, new products have been created that go to export markets. That's only one reason, but that's the main reason. Therefore, if it were possible for other countries where unemployment is now almost 20% or even higher to reduce this high unemployment twice by doing nothing, then that could be suggested to them. However, our actions have been different and they have guaranteed the country success. The fact that the Government of the Republic does not deal with poverty is not appropriate. If it were possible that relative poverty in Estonia would decrease in times of crisis by not dealing with poverty, others would probably have used the same methods. But no, others have not been as successful in reducing poverty as we have in Estonia. Let us say once again what the government has done to reduce poverty. First of all, we raised pensions. Although there has been a crisis, at a time when others have reduced pensions, we have raised our pension by 5%. Why? Some say we needed voters' votes. A politician who says he does not need voters' votes is not fair, or, frankly, he is lying. But the main reason we decided to raise pensions was because of Eurostat. While 40% of pensioners in the country were at risk of poverty, it was unthinkable not to increase pensions. Alone pensioners lived at 80% risk of poverty when we decided to increase pensions. The rise in pensions was justified in every way, as a result of this increase, many people have been spared the risk of poverty, of living in poverty. Another major measure why poverty has decreased in Estonia is as well known to you as it is to me. We increased payments from the unemployment fund to the unemployed, and compared to the previous crisis in 1999, the current aid granted by the state to the unemployed is of quite a different magnitude. This has also been a very important measure to reduce poverty in Estonia. You can always watch and not notice, but I think it is worth looking and noticing in order to argue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U24	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I'd go back to local government issues, that's where it all started. The Chancellor of Justice has stressed that in the absence of public services provided by local authorities, or even services, this is a violation of citizens' constitutional rights and therefore a breach of the Constitution. Do you think that the income base of local governments is sufficient to fulfil the obligations imposed on them under the Constitution and the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U26	Given the potential of the State, it must be considered that the revenue base is sufficient. At the same time, we know that regardless of whether it is a rich or poor country, local authorities are mostly lacking 25% of the resources needed to carry out their tasks. It doesn't matter whether it's Norway or Congo, there's still about a quarter missing. There is probably no local government in the world, the leader of which would say that they have enough money to carry out their tasks. In this respect, Estonia is not exceptional at all. Given the possibilities of the Estonian state, it must be considered that these funds are sufficient. If you look at the public expenditures made at the local government level, the share of these expenditures lies in the number of countries with strong local governments in Estonia. There are only a few in Europe, or let us say, slightly more than some countries where more than 25% of all public expenditure is spent locally. Yes, Denmark spends almost 60% locally, Sweden spends almost 50%, Finland spends almost 40%. In addition to this, Estonia may seem like a modest country with its 25%. However, given that at the second extreme there are countries where at local level less than 5% of all public expenditure is spent, this 25% guarantees Estonia a place in the first half of the European Union, given those countries where local authorities have been more heavily funded.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U27	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question also concerns relations between local authorities and the state. It is known that from 2013 the municipalities will lose a very important part of the income base.. I am thinking about the tax on the land they live in. When this was discussed and decided in Parliament, it was promised that the Government of the Republic would immediately put in place a mechanism for compensating local governments for this deficit. Is there a mechanism now? Have you agreed to this within the coalition? The local government leaders are quite anxious and unable to plan further activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U29	The city of Tallinn should not be alarmed because the city of Tallinn has lost its land tax without the help of the state. So you have no reason to be alarmed. But all the other municipalities know that the coalition has in principle agreed to increase the local governments' equalization fund so that the local authorities would receive compensation for the income from the land tax. To the comfort of the city of Tallinn, I would also say that no one will punish Tallinn either.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U30	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U31	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Let me take a different view on the income base of local governments. Local authorities do not have much opportunity to shape their income base, except for what the state shares from above. How do you feel, Prime Minister, about local authorities grabbing their last straw by increasing the place fee for kindergarten? As we recently read, it was increased by 74% in Rae parish, for example. Doesn't the government have a plan to set a limit that can be raised to the level of the place fee for kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U32	As the Supreme Court has found in its ruling, local functions and functions are the functions of the state. The task of some countries has been delegated to local authorities, but the service you mentioned is not one of them. Perhaps you should ask the chairman of your beloved party why he has decided to significantly increase the place fee for kindergarten in Tallinn. As far as the local government's income base is concerned, to a certain extent it is dependent on tax rates. For example, the rate of the road and street closure tax is determined by the local government, as well as advertising tax. But above all, the income base of the local government depends on whether people want to live in the territory of the local government or not. The local government must therefore, above all, care about its inhabitants. If people want to live there, they also live there and pay their income tax to the local government. That's how these local revenues are formed. The income base is very much the creation of local governments themselves; the law has given local authorities an independent income base.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U33	Can't ask two questions, Priit Toobal. What's this about? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U34	Thank you. I have a procedural question and a request to the President of the sitting. Would you please educate the Prime Minister and explain to him that the local government does not equal Tallinn. There are 226 local governments in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U35	Mr Toobal, for this you have the opportunity to come and perform. Don't ask me that. We need to understand what is a procedural question! No further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations now. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U36	President-in-Office of the Council. My speech will be much softer than I intended. The Prime Minister calmed me down. He said that there were many people in the municipalities where it was good to live, and that there would be more people. More people come to Tallinn every day, so I have lost a large stone from my heart. We are on the right track with our party chairman and the mayor of Tallinn. Thank you, Prime Minister. But now, taking note of your words, how did it happen that our lives are so good that the IMF commends us and all international organisations praise us, playing with these words, I now ask you, Prime Minister: how did it happen that the price increase in Estonia is the fastest and the biggest in Europe? Mr Prime Minister, how did it happen that the lowest wages in the European Union are in a country you run? Mr. Prime Minister, how did it happen that the worst pensions are in the Republic of Estonia? And, Prime Minister, how did it turn out that relative poverty is not as much of what you said? I would like to tell you that the in-depth poverty of children has doubled in recent years during your prime ministership. How did that happen, Prime Minister? And how'd it go, Prime Minister, so it's been six days since the state television did you get the black deeds of your government ministers and your coalition partner, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union's leading politicians, and we haven't heard a single statement from you in a whole week? When the scandal broke out a year ago, you took the floor every day, sometimes twice, on the chairman of my esteemed party. The title of the inquiry is "An inquiry into the weak management of the state'. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you: how has it been that, within a week, the President of our Republic has not taken the position that is happening in the Estonian Government? And how has it been that we have not heard in a week whether our two leading ministers, the Minister for the Economy and the Minister for the Interior, are involved in a new exploded internal scandal that has already reached the European Union and the Schengen visa space? I thank you for giving me time to speak, and I will leave these questions in the air. Mr. Prime Minister, how did that happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U37	Please, Prime Minister, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U38	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! I am glad that Estonia has done as well as it has done. How did it happen that Estonia has been the most successful compared to its former fate mates? It is probably because Estonia has had responsible governments for 20 years in a row and because the majority of the Riigikogu has also been responsible for the last 20 years. That's how he's gone. How did that happen? As a result, we have had a hard - to - work nation. What would have happened if it had been to direct the Centre Party? I guess we'd be there in Greece on our own. After reading the excellent writings of your excellent leaders, all that can be concluded is that Estonia cannot be anywhere else. Our salaries are not the least in the European Union. You might know that. A member of the Riigikogu should definitely not lie. Once again, honesty is credo! If you leave something you don't want to share with the public without saying, it's your business, but you can't lie. Pensions in Estonia are not the smallest in the European Union! Children's deep poverty has not doubled in recent years. That's a lie! Research confirms that, yes, deep poverty has increased in the crisis, but not twice. Your story reminds me of this new talk about how to get rich: I buy with two, I put on 2%, and I sell with four, and that's the 2% I live with. It is roughly the same as your approach to the issue of poverty. If you had listened, you would certainly have heard my statements, my views on the issue of prowling with residence permits. If you had listened, you would certainly have heard that the President of the Republic has condemned the pranking of residence permits. But if you don't want to listen, you won't. If you live in your own world and paint everything in this world, all of your surroundings black, you will not hear or see what is happening in real life. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U39	Thank you very much. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U40	We will go to the next question, which is the inquiry submitted on 27 October by Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo, Inara Luigas, Heimar Leng, Valeri Korbi, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Lauri Laas, Aivar Riisalu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalev Kallo, Enn Eesmaa and Tarmo Tamme, submitted by members of the Riigikogu on 27 October (No 59). Please, colleague of the speaker's desk, Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! On 27 October, a number of central parties submitted an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The inquiry is inspired by the National Audit Office's report 'Overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2010'. Taxpayer must receive a large number of services from the local government, for which municipalities need land, e.g. road streets and other infrastructure land, land of schools and kindergartens, parks and green areas and sports grounds. The local authorities have considered that there is not enough land to carry out the tasks of local authorities. It has become apparent that solving the rural issue of rural municipalities and cities is getting stuck in the way of failure to complete the land reform. It has been discussed several times, but so far it has not been decided where to start the completion: either to form a reserve of the state's land from an unreformed state land and then to sell plots of land to the municipalities, or to give these lands to use, or to first hand over the free land to the municipalities. In the process of completing the land reform, the focus will be on clarifying the relationship between land ownership and municipalisation. To this end, the Government of the Republic already approved in 2008 the principles for establishing a country's reserve for land, which sets out the list of countries from which the country's reserve for land is formed. However, the National Audit Office has found that the principles of establishing the state reserve of land are not transparent enough from the perspective of local governments. In fact, local governments have the impression that the country's land reserve will be formed at random, with the aim of fulfilling the sales plan and increasing the revenue of the state. The municipalities and cities would not be opposed to the land being held by the state if the state were to explain why the land was to be held by the state. The Land Board confirms that it is based on the principles of establishing the land reserve of the State when applying for land ownership, but this is not a public document. The Government of the Republic has declared that cooperation with local governments is important in establishing the state's land reserve and determining land to be municipalised, but according to the National Audit Office, this has not materialised. On 27 October, a number of central parties asked the Prime Minister a total of seven questions, and now we are waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U42	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Please, Prime Minister, to answer the question to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first and second questions: 'Is the completion of the land reform a priority for today's government? When and how will the government complete the land reform? ' I will answer two questions at once. The Government of the Republic has set one of its objectives of the 2011/2015 action programme in point 14 "Enhancing the productivity of state assets': to put an end to the land and property reform. To date, only about 10% of the land remains unreformed. The volume of land retained by the state has increased considerably in recent years. For example, in 2007 a total of 1858 cadastral units with a total area of about 18300 hectares were registered in the land registry, while in 2010 some 49600 hectares were registered. As of October this year, 3387 cadastral units with an area of approximately 43800 hectares have already been registered. As a reserve land, land that has become vacant in the course of the land reform, i.e. land or land which cannot be transferred to the property of other persons under the Land Reform Act, will be converted into the property of the State. Under the State Assets Act, it is possible to maintain, dispose of or dispose of this land as a reserve at a later date. The third and fourth questions: 'Why has the state not identified the needs of local governments for land? To what extent is the state interested in cooperating with local governments in establishing the country's land reserve and determining the land to be municipalised? What exactly is cooperation? What has been done so far? ' I also answer these two questions at once. The municipality itself plays the most, if not the sole, role in determining the need for land in the local government. Spatial planning is the task of the municipality. In general, local authorities have explained their land needs through general plans. According to the information published by the Ministry of the Interior, 195 municipalities have valid general plans as of 1 June 2011 and the territory of 12 municipalities is partially covered by the general plan. Several municipalities still do not have a general plan, although according to § 45 of the Planning Act, general plans had to be established in cities by 1 January 2006 at the latest and in the municipalities by 1 July 2007. The Assembly of Municipal Associations in the Committee on Environment and Rural Affairs has repeatedly discussed the issue of unreformed state countries. Based on the state's needs and the principles of mutual cooperation between local authorities and the state, it was agreed in 2007 that local authorities would submit data on unreformed state countries to the Land Administration. In order to get an overview of the unreformed state lands, a map application was created in the Land Board, where all municipalities are able to transfer data about both the requested and the free countries, as well as the interests of the local government itself. Unfortunately, several municipalities have not made use of the opportunity to cooperate, or have only partially done so, so the State lacks information on their interests. The Ministry of the Environment and the Land Board are still working to clarify that local authorities are interested in cooperating with the state and speeding up the process of completing the land reform. Among other things, the Ministry of the Environment has also requested information from local governments about countries whose rapid civil turnover would contribute significantly to the development of local government. Question 5: "Why are the principles of establishing a country's land reserve not publicly available? " In October 2008, the Minister of the Environment presented to the Government of the Republic the principles for establishing a country's land reserve, which were approved at the meeting of the Cabinet on 10 January 2008. In the same year, the principles for establishing a reserve for land were introduced in the Environmental and Rural Affairs Committee of the Municipal Associations. An overview of this topic was also given during the days of rural municipalities and cities in Tallinn. Therefore, these principles should also have reached local authorities. Question 6: "How do you explain the situation where the Minister for the Environment has expressed the view in recent years that the municipality does not have a legal basis for obtaining free municipal land for housing, production and business, while the Government of the Republic has at the same time transferred land with such objects to municipal property? If the responsibilities of local authorities have not changed significantly in the meantime, why has the legal treatment of this issue changed? ' The functions of local government are laid down in § 6 of the Local Government Organisation Act. The Government of the Republic, by its decision in this regard, is able to grant land to municipal property in the course of the land reform for the purposes mentioned there. The municipal ownership of the land is not only refused because of one purpose or another, but is based on whether the application submitted shows that the land is necessary for the performance of a task of a public nature imposed on the municipality by the Local Government Organisation Act or by another law and that it is not possible to carry out such a task without having a specific rural unit. For each specific application, the compatibility of the land use objective with the current planning and consistency with other strategic documents is assessed with the rural municipality or city development plan, waste management plan etc. As a result, the principles of municipal ownership of the land have not changed in the case of land for residential, industrial and commercial purposes. In recent years, i.e. as of September 2007, the Government of the Republic has granted 54 hectares of land for municipal use in the course of the land reform, including 2.2 hectares of land for commercial use and 1.28 hectares of land for residential use, on duly justified requests. Since the municipal ownership of the land in the context of the land reform for the purpose of developing residential areas is not in accordance with the law, the possibility for local authorities to acquire residential land under the State Property Act is below the normal value, i.e. 65% of the market value of the unit. Therefore, if the residential land is not necessary for the performance of the statutory functions of local authorities, the State must be paid in the event of its acquisition, regardless of whether the land remains its property or is transferred. So local governments no longer have any legal obstacles to acquiring residential land. The State Property Act also provides the basis for the local government to acquire technology parks, industrial parks and other land necessary for the development of the business environment. In addition, the State Assets Act provides the basis for the municipality to acquire the land necessary for the performance of its functions free of charge or below the market price. If, after the land has been converted into state property, it becomes apparent that the municipality still needs a rural unit, it will be able to apply for it under the State Property Act. Question 7: 'How do you view the view of the National Audit Office that applications for municipalisation of land to be decided by the Government of the Republic must be prepared by the Minister of Regional Affairs? In your opinion, would this be justified and necessary to increase the competence of the Minister for Regional Affairs? 'The Minister for the Environment is responsible for organising the land reform. During the final phase of the land reform, it cannot be considered appropriate that part of the task carried out by one ministry for more than 15 years be assigned to another ministry. The Land Board, which is managed by the Ministry of the Environment, oversees the activities of rural governments and local authorities in carrying out land reform. This competence derives from Section 38 (2) (1) of the Land Reform Act. According to the Act of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of the Interior must supervise the activities of the Land Elders, but in matters of land reform, the Land Administration has the respective competence. The Ministry of the Environment and the Land Administration also have the relevant competence and competence to assess the consistency between the established planning and the functions of the local government units provided for in the legislation. The Land Reform Act and Regulation No 133 of the Government of the Republic of Estonia of 2 June 2006 entitled "Procedures for the award of land municipal property' have established a legal regulation for the municipal ownership of the land required by local authorities. The decision to place land on municipal property is not based solely on the functions of the local municipality, but is based on an examination of whether the land can be used for the purposes set out in the application, i.e. the nature conservation and other constraints on the land, the availability of mineral resources, for example the waste management plan for the construction of a waste plant. These questions are mostly in the administration of the Ministry of the Environment. In making this proposal, according to the Government, the National Audit Office has not carried out a sufficiently thorough study and appropriate analysis. Therefore, the proposal of the National Audit Office is not proportionate to the analysis carried out in the context of the review. This is essentially a proposal where the National Audit Office gives the opinion that a function of a state should be transferred from the competence of one ministry to another ministry. The final decision shall be taken by the Government on the basis of the powers conferred on it by the Government of the Republic Act. Land ownership is only part of land reform. According to § 38 (1) of the Land Reform Act, the land reform is carried out by the Government of the Republic through the Land Administration and local authorities under the Land Reform Act in accordance with the procedure established by the Government of the Republic. At present, the Government of the Republic does not see the need to place the procedure for municipal ownership of the land into the competence of the Minister of Regional Affairs instead of the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U44	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U45	We will go to the following question: the inquiry submitted by the Riigikogu members Kalle Laaneti, Jüri Ratas, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Deniss Borodichi, Tarmo Tamme, Aivar Riisalu, Eldar Efendijev, Inara Luise, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi and Mailis Repsi on 17 October (No 47). Mr Kalle Laaneti, I would like to ask you to speak with Mr Kalle Laaneti.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of the Interior! On 17 October, a number of members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for the Interior. It's about the life of volunteer saviors. Our questions are motivated by the fact that the Minister has said on quite a number of occasions in this remote area that voluntary rescuers are one of the possible levers for increasing rescue capabilities. I'm not going to read the questions here, but there's six of them. If the minister comes to the remote, maybe we can figure it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U47	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. Now please, Minister of the Interior, give answers to the questions of the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U48	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable questioners! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The six questions I will start with are as follows: 'Which measures are planned, in your opinion, to significantly increase the number of volunteers in 2012? " The principle that free will is based on the free will of a person must generally be taken into account in the development of free will. Thus, free will as a social movement exists only if it is based on people's personal desire to contribute their time and strength. The state cannot increase the free will by order. If this were to be done, we would not be able to talk about genuine volunteering. But what the country can and must do is create a favourable ground for the development of free-will. That is why we have planned a number of activities. Firstly, each of the Regional Rescue Centres of the Rescue Board has appointed a total of five officials since 1 September 2011 whose daily work is to carry out voluntary rescue. Secondly, the training of voluntary rescuers by the Rescue Board will continue in 2012. Thirdly, the financing of voluntary rescue from the Ministry of the Interior's budget will increase by EUR 105000 in 2012, which is an increase of almost 30% compared to the 2011 funding of voluntary rescuers. And fourthly, in 2012, we support the umbrella organisation of volunteer rescuers in Estonia with operational support. We have already signed a grant agreement of EUR 28000. We have also asked the Committee on Monetary Affairs to increase this support by another EUR 42000. This would increase the annual operating grant of the Rescue Union to nearly EUR 70000, which would represent a significant increase compared to 2011, when the Union support was around EUR 35000. Increasing the capacity of the voluntary umbrella organisation will enable them to hire a development manager, in addition to the CEO, whose task is to initiate external aid projects, as well as to draw up a rescue union development plan and carry out events. We have also made an additional request to allocate support to a free-will rescue union in order to bring down the emergence of new voluntary rescue units in priority areas. This is a significant number of activities and I think it also shows that the Ministry of the Interior's priority is to develop free will in action. Question 2: How does the state intend to make voluntary rescuers attractive to the employer? What benefits could an employer expect in recruiting a voluntary savior? Does the Ministry already have a mechanism in place? ' According to the Rescue Act, there is, in this respect, § 37 (5) of the Rescue Act, a voluntary savior has the right, in agreement with the employer, to have free time to participate in the rescue work. In the case of large-scale or long-term participation in rescue work, the State can also pay the voluntary rescuer a fee for participating in rescue work. However, like Scandinavian countries, we do not have a separate provision for employers to receive compensation. So far, we do not have any examples of practice where employers would have considered it necessary to set up such a system of remuneration. We are of the opinion that we do not need to impose state obligations on employers in favour of voluntary rescuers. The employer should also retain the possibility to support volunteering out of his/her own free will and in accordance with the organisation or needs of the company. Similarly, creating such obligations for the employer would be counterproductive to the real origins of free will. As I have already emphasised, our aim is to contribute to the development of free will, in which one of our cooperation partners is undoubtedly entrepreneurs. In order to support the voluntary rescue area, we want to start recognising the institutions and companies that supported voluntary rescue in 2012 in order to set an example in society at large. The third question: 'What do you assess in today's situation, where the wages of the rescuers have been reduced first and now frozen for years, the realisation of the Ministry's plan to increase the capacity and quality of the rescue service acquired with the aid of the aided rescue equipment and equipment? ' The question is not directly related to the voluntary rescuers, but I will briefly explain. Of course, it is in the interests of the Ministry of the Interior that if our country's economic situation improves, the wages of the rescuers would also increase. Freezing the wages of the Saviors has never been a purpose. This is simply a necessity for all employees in the public sector in the current situation. I also consider it necessary to stress here that the objectives set for the acquisition of external resources are not linked to the number and salary of rescuers, but to the extinguishing of forest fires, chemical accidents, oil spills, for example, of various capabilities. Rescue equipment and techniques acquired from external aid funds in recent years have been a very important contribution to improving rescue capabilities and quality, and the Ministry of the Interior can certainly be proud of the successful use of foreign resources in the field of rescue. Examples include forest fire extinguishing containers, HQ containers, pumping stations, pollution control devices, for which the targets have already been met. Our forest extinguishing capacity and pollution response capacity have increased and there is no reason to fear that we will be hit back in the near future. Question 4: How does the state finance viable rescue equipment and technical maintenance and repair for voluntary rescue workers? Has the corresponding amounts been calculated for the 2012 budget? If so, what calculations have been made and are they sufficient to carry out the necessary rescue work? ' As has already been said, through the Ministry of the Interior, the support granted to the Estonian Private Salvation League will increase by 100% in 2012. We also support the financing of volunteer rescuers through the Rescue Board, which will conclude one-year rescue contracts with volunteer commandos for this purpose. Support from voluntary rescuers financed through the Rescue Board will increase by 30% in 2012. On average, direct public funding amounts to EUR 3619 per volunteer command. In addition to financial support, consideration must also be given to non-financial support, which is reflected in free-of-charge training by the Rescue Board for volunteer rescuers and in various material contributions When it comes to paying for the maintenance of equipment and equipment, it is also intended for this purpose. Already today, voluntary commandos have been provided with separate operating costs to be reimbursed through the Rescue Board, which also pays for the maintenance of voluntary equipment and equipment. Question 5: "What is the reason why, in the shadow of supporting voluntary rescuers, the state is directing its responsibilities for internal security to local authorities, whose task is to provide all-embracing assistance for volunteer rescuers? ' This view cannot be accepted. The State does not assign its responsibilities to local authorities. To support this claim, it is necessary to clarify once again how support for voluntary rescuers works. The funding of voluntary rescuers is provided through the Rescue Board's budget under the Rescue Act, with a planned amount of EUR 405472. Local authorities are not obliged to support voluntary rescuers. However, if local authorities wish to contribute to the security of their area, their support for voluntary rescuers is, of course, only to be welcomed. The best result is achieved through cooperation between the state and local government. I am pleased to note that many local authorities have found an opportunity to support volunteer commandos. According to the Estonian Private Salvation Association, 75% of their members receive support from local governments. Volunteers are active citizens, and so it is natural that they try to find other supporters, be they local authorities or entrepreneurs, in addition to the state. External resources are also being sought. The more free-willers there are, the better a result we will achieve. And the last question: 'What exactly is EUR 105087 spent on additional funds for volunteers identified in the 2012 state budget? " As the examples show, the extra money has two main goals. Firstly, to increase funding for existing voluntary rescue teams, in particular in priority locations for the state. Secondly, to create additional volunteers for rescue commandos. This money will be channelled directly to support both existing and new voluntary rescue associations on the basis of bilateral agreements between the Rescue Board and volunteer commandos. As the 2012 budget for the Rescue Board is still being drawn up, it is not yet possible to provide a detailed answer as to how much one or the other voluntary commando will receive operating support in the coming year. The Ministry of the Interior has also submitted an application for additional separation to the umbrella organisation, the Estonian Priitent Salvation League, as well as the creation of new volunteer commandos in priority areas of the state. Finally, good questioners, I assure you that volunteering is supported in two directions. Through the budget of the Rescue Board, the day-to-day activities of the volunteer commandos are financed, while the Estonian Priil Salvation Association supports the development of the voluntary movement in the form of recruitment of new members, the initiation of external aid projects and other activities. Thus, the voluntary movement is developed by the volunteers themselves. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U49	Thank you, Mr. Minister of the Interior. You have questions too. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of the Interior! I agree with some of your arguments, some of them, but certainly not. One aspect is the support of local authorities for volunteering. If the state rescue service disappears from the region or local government and the municipality considers that the rescue team, it is either voluntary or state, is one of the arguments in favour of people wanting to come and live on the territory of this local government, then it simply has to make this expense on the expense of its small income base. He's just gonna have to hold the rescue squad. As a rule, it tends to be that the house, the car, and the salary of one person are really paid, while the rest come along as volunteers. But my question is: are you very confident that employers do not need any additional incentive to send volunteers to rescue?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U51	Thank you for your question. If you remember, good Kalle, we discussed this in the Legal Affairs Committee when we did the rescue law. As far as I can remember, we reached consensus on its wording, as it is now. You can always discuss that. I think that employers should also be heard. Currently, the law does not impose any obligations on employers, nor does it provide for compulsory dismissals. It has been tried to be resolved by mutual cooperation and responsiveness. From the feedback we have received, it can be concluded that a significant number of employers who offer work to volunteers will understand this need and will meet volunteers if they want to fulfil their obligations as voluntary rescuers. We may come back to this issue after a while, and we will probably have to do so. But it seems to me that the system is working and that people do not have significant obstacles - there are certainly exceptions - there is no way to argue against it - to fulfil their obligations as a voluntary rescuer, on the one hand, and with the employer, on the other. In general, employers are reasonable and responsive and we want to start recognising them separately at the beginning of 2012. I think that this recognition is very important to them, and I hope that we can do so with a very high level of public attention. This recognition has also been published in other areas. In general, I think that these motivational mechanisms work better.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U52	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Mr Kalle Laanet to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! When we talk about the motivation of volunteer rescuers and the motivation of employers, at the last meeting in Raplamaa, where we had the honour of being with several members of the Commission, the volunteers expressed concern that sometimes employers do not understand why they should have their good worker put out a fire. Yes, they understand that one time it is possible to do this, another time it is possible, but if it is very common, if there are many cases, then the employer wonders that he will lose his capable workforce at the most inappropriate moment. Perhaps this problem has not yet come up acutely, as voluntary rescue work is still in its infancy, but if it continues to develop, I and my colleagues believe that there must be some sort of motivational package for employers to come up with, why they should allow their best employees to play a social role somewhere, which may involve saving people's lives or property. The other side of volunteering is definitely equipment, cars and buildings to keep the equipment in. Today, volunteer rescue vehicles are under very different conditions. On many occasions, in the winter, when there are harsh cold temperatures outside, the water in the cars tends to freeze out. And in order not to freeze the water, it is released from the tank, which, of course, reduces the rate of response. Perhaps the state should still think about how to find as similar architectural and other solutions as possible to all voluntary rescue buildings in Estonia. Perhaps the capabilities of the RKAS should be harnessed to build buildings similar to those of volunteers under similar conditions, in order to get new winds into the wings of those people who actually, to a large extent, without money, provide help to save other people's lives and property. These are two aspects which, in my opinion, do not come up strongly at first, but I believe that in the coming years, the government, together with the legislator, should seriously think about how to find solutions for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U54	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U55	Next is the inquiry submitted by Riigikogu members Indrek Saare, Sven Mikeri, Karel Rüütli, Marianne Mikko, Andres Anvelt, Rein Randver, Eiki Nestor, Jaak Allik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Rannar Vassilyev, Urve Palo and Neeme on 19 October concerning the construction of the oil shale power plant block (No 48). Indrek Saare, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U56	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. On May 5, 2011, the Government of the Republic made a political decision to build a new bundle of 560 million euros of oil shale power plant for Eesti Energia, which will be completed by 2015. The construction of the second, as well as the 300 megawatt block, will be decided in 2012. The estimated cost of the entire investment is close to EUR 1 billion. Responsibility for business risk rests with Eesti Energia. In order for the production of electricity with new oil shale blocks to be economically viable, the Electricity Market Act was supplemented in early 2010 by providing support for the existence of net installed capacity of the oil shale production unit. As such support constitutes State aid, in March 2010 the European Commission received a request to authorise State aid up to EUR 953 million for the construction of an oil shale power plant. In June 2011, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications decided to withdraw the application for State aid when it became apparent that the Commission might not grant an authorisation. In order to address this situation, the State decided to support the construction of oil shale blocks through a free-of-charge quota of CO2 for electricity producers. The free quota would keep money for Eesti Energia, which would otherwise have to be spent from auction to buy the quota, so it is essentially state support. However, the European Commission will not decide until the spring of 2012 whether to allow the quota to be allocated to the company. The allocation of a free quota for the construction of oil shale boilers in Eesti Energia is unlikely as it would not comply with Article 10c of Directive 2003/87/EC, as well as the European Union State aid rules. As the decision of the European Commission does not yet exist, the country still does not fully understand the sources of financing for the construction of the new oil shale plant and the price of electricity to the consumer as a result. Nevertheless, with the approval of the Government of Eesti Energia, the construction of a new oil shale plant has started, expecting support from the state for the investment. At the same time, Sandor Liive, Chairman of the Management Board of Eesti Energia, admitted at the public hearing organised by the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on 17 November, that he felt that this decision had been taken in haste and could therefore not be risk-free, i.e. the most reasonable. On the basis of the above, we have submitted written questions to the Minister on the basis of § 139 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu, which have also been handed over to him. We would, of course, like to know where this money comes from, how much electricity will cost people, if the CO2 quota is not allowed to be granted free of charge, and who is ultimately responsible for this whole thing. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U57	Thank you very much, Mr Indrek Saar. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U58	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for asking me this question and I will go straight to the questions and answers. The first question: 'What will be the project for the construction of two 300 MW oil shale power plant blocks if the European Commission does not allow free CO2 quota for Eesti Energia? How will the business plan be completed in this case? ' The first thing I want to stress is that the government decided to build Narva's new power plant to ensure Estonia's energy security. This is a strategic decision of the state, which is also in line with the development plan for the energy economy approved by the Riigikogu until 2020. This decision certainly cannot be measured only in money, although money must be read very carefully. In terms of energy security and security of supply, the importance of the Narva power plant is that oil shale can produce electricity even if the wind does not blow and the sun does not shine. What is also important is that oil shale is our own mineral resource, which is found in our underground, unlike, for example, coal or natural gas, for which we would depend on imports. The new plant will also use a considerable amount of biomass, because it is also our domestic raw material, but also renewable. As far as the free allocation of CO2 quotas is concerned, at this point in time, I would not like to speculate on decisions that have not yet been taken. The Estonian Government has submitted a request to the European Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down, and until it has been properly reviewed and answered, there is no point in speculating about 'you should'. Financing the Estonian Energy Investment Plan is a broader issue than building oil shale blocks. We know that at the same time there are other investments in production capacities, the development of the oil industry and investment in the retail network are also taking place to value oil shale. The financing of all of this depends not on one, but on several objects and on the pace at which they are moving forward. The second question: 'In the words of Jüri Käo, Chairman of the Board of Eesti Energia, you have made a promise to the company to support the company if the European Commission does not allow free CO2 quota for Eesti Energia, and the company's other investments due to the construction of the power plant do not suffer. From what source does the government intend to find the missing 953 million euros for Eesti Energia? ' It is certainly not the case that the construction of oil shale blocks requires EUR 953 million of support. EUR 953 million is the investment cost known as a result of the procurement of the entire two blocks. When deciding to build a new electricity block, it could be assumed that this operation would be cost-effective but not cost-effective to be undertaken by the company only on the basis of market conditions. After all, the company must also take into account the risks associated with a possible change in the market situation, which is why an investment of this scale, based on market conditions alone, would probably require a higher return from an average investor for whom energy security would not be important. However, energy security is also important for the government in addition to making a profit on the investment, and that is why we decided on 5 May to accept lower returns on the investment of oil shale blocks as owner of shares in Eesti Energia AS if market conditions required. In order to mitigate investment risk and ensure a return to market conditions, the government decided to prepare a legal framework and request coordination from the European Commission on the national investment plan drawn up pursuant to Article 10c of the Directive for the years 2013 to 2019, which provides for the allocation of emission allowances free of charge to several companies, including Eesti Energia AS, in order to invest in new oil shale boilers. As I have already said, I do not want to speculate on a decision not taken by the European Commission. If the government cannot follow what it decided in the spring, then of course the government must come back to the issue and consider alternative funding options. We choose the best of them. I can tell you in advance that we will certainly have a number of alternative financing options if, under the current directives, no free quota is allocated to Eesti Energia. This decision should be taken no later than the end of the first quarter of next year, in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the European Commission itself. To illustrate the novelty or complexity of this situation, I note that many of the methodological bases developed by the Commission are still unconfirmed even today. The European Commission has even asked us to wait a little while for these final documents until the Commission can endorse all its methodological guidelines. This is not just an Estonian issue; the same problems are encountered in making similar investments in most, not all, but most, EU countries. This is certainly a precedent for the extent to which, during the new emissions trading period, one or another carbon-dependent investment in the electricity industry or also in the energy-intensive industry will be accepted by the European Commission. The third question: " Without state aid, what will the price of energy produced in the aforementioned new oil shale blocks be like? Can it be sold profitably under conditions of a free energy market? ' The new power plant will sell the electricity produced on the open electricity market and at market price. After all, the profitability of the power plant is ex post. This will depend on both the market price of electricity and changes in inputs for electricity generation, including the market price of CO2, tax rates and environmental charges. At high CO2 prices, the competitiveness of the new power plant can be improved by partially replacing oil shale in the fuel mix with biomass. The new power plant can use 5% biomass in the fuel mix, leading to CO2 emissions of the power plant in the same order of magnitude as the CO2 emissions of the gas power plant. This will also improve the competitiveness of the power plant. The power plant will only produce electricity in those hours when the market price exceeds the variable costs of generating the electricity and the power plant makes a profit. If electricity produced in the new power plant does not enter the market at a given moment due to high cost, the power plant will not produce the electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U59	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions for you. Hurry up, please! I was taking a break! Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U60	Thank you, good Chairwoman! Minister, thank you very much. On 17 November there was a hearing in the Committee on Economic Affairs on the subject of 'Brick as a resource' and Sandor Liive was there. In his presentation, he said that due to the high taxation of CO2 emissions, oil shale electricity is difficult to compete in the Baltic and Nordic electricity markets, dominated by nuclear and hydropower. However, he also said that his proposal was to wait at least a year for this investment decision until it was clear how and where these sums would come from. After all, we are not going to build our home so that, for example, we are going to make $500,000 start and then we will see if we can get more money or if the investment we have made stops in vain. The amounts you play with are very, very large. My question is, why were you in such a hurry? Why didn't you consider the proposal of the Estonian Energy Board to wait until things had cleared up?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U61	On the contrary, I would say with regard to this investment that we have delayed this decision too much. I remember 2003 and 2004, when I was head of the government. In fact, a lot of time has been wasted by delaying these investments since 2007. We need to take into account the situation that will be in 2016. In fact, we should leave speculation with the possibility of using the old power plant in one way or another so-called more, so that we simply lose sufficient capacity. In my view, this investment has been delayed. Now the question of competitiveness. I believe that, as in the case of an open market, competition there is difficult, but certainly possible. The question we are currently dealing with is the question of a reasonable return. The company, even if it is 100% State property, has the full right to apply for a return such as private capital for its investments, taking into account the real market. The owner, in this case the state, can say that we can also accept a somewhat lower rate of return, but the situation gives us an opportunity to actually improve the rate of return, given the framework of the European Union. I cannot comment on your question, and I seriously doubt that you have correctly quoted Mr Liive's comment. I know Mr. Sand's points of view quite precisely. I assure you, of course, that the management of the company always has a responsibility to ensure that the company's investments are maximised. The owner also accepts the need to do everything possible to improve productivity. It is precisely because of this that we have made requests, and we believe that it is justified to have a free quota in the new period in order to improve productivity. Is that what the European Commission thinks of them as to whether they have any objections, that is what we will know when the final decision has been made. I dare say today that the signals from the European Commission are rather positive, our situation is understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U62	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U63	Thank you. The budget for next year plans to give Eesti Energia 150 million euros for the financing transaction. In Question Time held in September, you answered my question that this transaction does not constitute State aid. In the same reply to the written question that you sent me on the same subject, you clearly recognise that the need to increase share capital arose after the decision to invest in the construction of the new Narva power plant. It is also possible to conclude very clearly that this constitutes State aid. Here's the question for me. As we know, if we grant State aid in such a way that it is irregular, this will entail an obligation on the recipient to repay the money with interest and an obligation on the State to pay the fine. Where will such amounts be found if it proves to be State aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U64	In my opinion, we have the following question on equity and on the amounts set out in the budget. I do not know if this is presented by the Socialists or the Centre Party, but we can talk about it in depth. The equity investment does not constitute State aid. There are very many reasons why it is necessary to make an equity investment. But above all, the objective is that the ratio between the company's equity and debt capital should remain reasonable, so that it can be accepted by both existing creditors and future creditors. In this respect, the equity investment is still in order to implement the investment plan. In the case of Eesti Energia, any investment must be profitable. That is our one objective. And the State is in no way prohibited from placing equity in something to make profitable investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U65	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U66	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The state can support oil shale energy in many ways. One option is the free CO2 quota, then the share capital, which was just discussed, and, of course, the renewable energy subsidies that Eesti Energia receives for driving firewood into the oven. But how do you assess: how competitive is oil shale electricity in 2013 without state support and free market conditions? In other words, how many days can a new power plant work a year if it removes the free CO2 quota and if the next government stops running this stupid firewood oven?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U67	If you ever get to be in the next government and investigate this nonsense, you'll realize it's not nonsense at all. But that's it. Once again, do not put equity on that list! This is not State aid of any kind; this cannot be accepted in any way. As far as the competitiveness of oil shale electricity is concerned, it actually depends on two important variables. The first variable is the price of electricity on the Nordic and Baltic markets. We can see what the price of electricity is now, and we can make some linear projections upwards, downwards, stable. It still depends on a lot of components. Above all, it depends largely on the price of oil. And the trend in oil prices and the trend in energy prices are moving in the same direction. We must admit that if we make an investment, such as an oil shale power plant, it is an investment with a lifetime of 25 years. It is quite difficult to plan one very important component in the price of electricity for 25 years. Another important component for oil shale electricity, as for other fossil fuels, is the price of CO2. At present, the whole of the European Union is in a situation where it is quite difficult to predict the CO2 trading scheme after 2013. It is not known what the market price will be. If we try to imagine the future situation, if we add CO2 to the market price, which according to various experts' forecasts is relatively low over the period 2013 to 2020, currently regulated the price of Narva Power Plants, which is set by the Competition Authority, Narva power plants will appear to be competitive in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U68	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U69	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. Could you tell me what analysis your decision was based on? I mean, two directions. First, why new oil shale blocks to ensure base power? Why not some other resource helping to cover fast-started base power or peak load that can be used to ensure its energy security? It's on the one hand. On the other hand: what analysis was it that gave you the hope that the European Commission would not interpret the CO2 quota as State aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U70	Thank you. The answer to the first question is, ladies and gentlemen, that, as far as I am concerned, we spent two years, with one or the other greater or lesser contribution, on the development plan for the energy economy. The Energy Economy Development Plan provides an approximate forecast of our energy production portfolio for the period 2020 + 5 years. One solution is to continue with oil shale electricity. Why continue with oil shale electricity? You're saying there's some other, very cheap, fast-starting alternative. Let me ask you, which one? What is this 'other' that can produce electricity? If we walk through the discussions in the energy economic development plan again quickly, we will start with coal. Coal is an import fuel, is it wise to start transporting it to Estonia? This is not much more competitive from an environmental point of view. As far as gas is concerned, we can say today: look at what is happening in the Baltic States! In Lithuania, there are two, perhaps even more, 2000 megawatts of gas power plant capacity, which work a year perhaps for a few weeks. You say the fast-starting alternative. Why do you think these stations are standing there, and Lithuania is buying a lot of electricity? They are because gas power plants, as they are in Lithuania, produce expensive electricity. The price is 83 euros per megawatt-hour. 83 euros per megawatt-hour! We know the current market price of electricity in Estonia and even in the Nordic region is almost twice as low. If we make a gas investment in some more modern technology, it is possible to achieve a certain victory in efficiency, but the price still does not fall below EUR 70 per megawatt-hour. Friends, such a power plant is not competitive in this market at all! Must be a completely different situation. Don't recommend it! Next, there's a nuclear power plant. The nuclear power plant is a long-running question. We have discussed this both as an Estonian question, which is still on the table, and in the context of international cooperation. We have not seen a nuclear power plant as a solution in the time frame 2016 and beyond. To be honest, I have to admit that alternative sources of energy other than renewables, I do not know, but there are limits to renewable energy. I'm not talking about economic boundaries, I'm talking about purely technological and physical boundaries. We're back in circles again. And now make a decision if you want to guarantee a reasonable priced electricity in Estonia in such a way that it will actually shape the market price.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U71	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Lembit Kaljuvee, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U72	Mr President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that among those who have spoken about the oil shale block of Narva Power Stations in this remote area for four and a half years, I will be second in line with the Minister. Although the Social Democrats submitted an inquiry, it would not be fair if I did not speak today and expressed my opinion. Indeed, as the Minister said, we will soon be able to measure the history of this energy block in ten years: in 2002-2003 it became part of the plans. If this is now, let's say, finished by 2015, then in fact, in 12 years to build a power plant, this is not a bad achievement at all. This is a very large investment and a very serious undertaking. But now to a specific project. Yes, it is right: we must recognise that all countries are striving to ensure that they have their own power generation capacity and, therefore, energy security. From this point of view, this block certainly serves these interests, and that is the right decision. I have pushed the Minister to make this decision. I have criticised the whole process from the point of view that the decision should have been taken several years ago, then it would also have had a 'economic dimension'. Unfortunately, there is no economic dimension at present. That's the biggest drawback of all. The management board of Eesti Energia has now tried to add to the economic dimension. In fact, I think it is a very unfortunate decision to build a boiler where two types of fuel, oil shale and wood can be heated together. I'm not a heat engineer, but I've talked to a lot of people in this office about it. I also come from a family where our stoves were heated with oil shale in my childhood. Grandpa never said he'd put trees in there. When it was the day of heating with oil shale, it was only oil shale, and sometimes when it was heated with trees, it was only heated with trees. Heat energy is such a technology to heat oil shale and wood in one boiler, much more expensive than to make oil shale tiles alone. Or if we have really decided that we are going to make a oil shale boiler and want to heat it with wood, then a wood-fired power plant could be built separately. These two things didn't have to be put in one pot. Now a decision has been made to build one block, and Eesti Energia plans to launch it until 2016. Time will tell who was right. In general, there's no point in fighting with your fists after a fight. However, the point is that we are solving the issue of energy security, there are very many problems from an economic point of view. The fact that the Minister gave in and went down this road of adding the possibility of heating wood is, in my opinion, wrong. I repeat: if the next kettle or block is to be built, it should definitely not be this way. The opinion of heat generators and other specialists should also be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U73	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Indrek Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U74	President-in-Office of the Council. Thank you for your answers to the Minister. Thank you to your colleagues for their contributions. I have to say here that I understand the Minister's concerns about base capacity, but he has not convinced me that, as he himself pointed out, we have foreseen possible different scenarios in the development plan for the electricity economy in 2011; it was best to select the scenario chosen by the Minister. This is in a situation where the foreseeable price of CO2 quotas has changed, where the foreseeable price of electricity has changed, and where it is increasingly clear that today, when you look at it economically, it is far more profitable to produce oil shale oil than to simply put oil shale into a boiler, which is actually going to waste a large part of its energy value. Unfortunately, I think that the European Commission's decision in 2012 will be based on arguments that say that such investment through CO2 quotas in the new oil shale boilers of Eesti Energia will not diversify the product portfolio and will already support the dominant company. Consequently, I am quite convinced that the CO2 quota cannot be used for this purpose. And ultimately, the CO2 quota is exactly the same as the money we borrow from the bank or take away from the state budget. It is just as much money, and it is in any case our common taxpayers' money, which is added to the price of energy produced in oil shale boilers, which is also based on other components. Therefore, I am not at all sure that the example of Lithuania, which the Minister has just pointed out, will unfortunately not prove to be a sad truth, or that the price of electricity produced in oil shale boilers will not be significantly higher than EUR 83 MWh in 2015 by making a simple calculation and counting into the price the investments that the state has put into this state enterprise. And it would be unethical to say that this is something completely different, because this money has not been put into education, culture, social programmes or other very meaningful and justified investments that the state could make. There's no money put in it, and there's a price. One more thing I want to talk about. The Minister drew attention to the fact that Eesti Energia has invented a nice rake, i.e. the use of biomass in Narva boilers, which makes the whole thing economical. First of all, I have to say that it is unethical. These renewable energy charges paid for burning wood in the boiler are intended for cogeneration plants, i.e. small plants capable of exploiting both the electricity produced and the residual heat from it. Narva stations aren't able to do that, all the residual heat flows into the Narva River, and we treat it as renewable energy?! It is deeply unethical and, on the other hand, it is also a very irresponsible behaviour towards people who try to use wood in some other way. Obviously, the prices of timber have already been pushed up by the amount that Eesti Energia is already driving into boilers in Narva. With the addition of new oil shale blocks, this quantity is multiplying, which means that the pressure to increase the price of wood is increasing even further, and both the household consumer, who heats his house with trees, and the company operating in the wood industry, are hit very hard. I think it's all one big trip and overlooking the real problems. I think that the Minister does not act in a coherent manner, but he will solve one problem, but he will create several more. Therefore, I certainly cannot agree with the Minister's explanations and views. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U75	Thank you. I now ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu in the round of negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Since there were such views, I did consider it necessary to say a small final report. First of all, I would like to acknowledge Lembit Kaljuvee in a certain part, but in a certain part, I would like to open up to him. In my opinion, the issue of using biomass with fossil fuels would require a much more thorough public debate. We may have gone a little further in our studies than it has been openly addressed. But inevitably, if we look at what is happening in Europe now, in many countries where the energy portfolio is just like that, it is certainly a reality to use biomass. Why is this a reality? I've already tried to explain that in my answer. This is a reality because if Europe wants to play a leading role in climate policy, it wants to set an example, then there is nothing to do with biomass, in fact, is one real way not only to increase the share of renewable energy but indeed to emit less CO2. I am not a thermal engineer and I am not able to comment on the relevant technical details. Many international experts have been involved in this work. We will also explore the experience of different fuel formations, work together with Alstom to make it effective, reasonable use. I call for less resounding words on this subject right now. It is wiser to deepen, explore different experiences and let experts speak. If something happens to this whole climate policy framework, then there is another situation. That's all we have to consider. In this sense, Mr. Kaljuvee just this request that we have to get the best expertise here. As far as my colleague Indrek Saare's statements are concerned, it seems to come from a company office somewhere to say with great goodwill what I hear and read in your press release. I meet a lot of corporate leaders, and this whole thing is the same. I call upon you in complete peace, you'll soon be in government, won't you? just to make a few different alternative choices for yourself. Don't dig yourself in with the same talk! I'm serious! Indrek Saar is trying to criticize me here with slogans that I listen very carefully. I could criticize you in exactly the same way. There were two messages in your speech today. Firstly, to increase unemployment significantly in Ida-Virumaa, because you no longer want to use oil shale, you want to end it. We want to use oil shale economically and environmentally purely, also preserving jobs. You don't want it. Secondly, you want to increase the price of electricity. I understand you're giving me clues that we should use Russian gas and Lithuanian gas stations will be very reasonable for the price of electricity is this. We are taking steps to keep the price of electricity as reasonable as possible in this changed economic environment in Estonia and throughout Europe, to influence as much of the so-called cheaper electricity on the market as possible. You guys are gonna come up and say we're gonna do something that's gonna increase the price of electricity twice. I don't agree with that. But that's what this is, it's general rhetoric. We completely distinguish between general renewable energy subsidies and the use of biomass in electricity production. Renewable energy support, currently used by a Narva station, is a completely separate theme, which also heats Narva station. We introduced it in a situation where there was an economic crisis. As far as I know, the Social Democrats supported this in order to create jobs in forestry. And it certainly made sense, it has a certain benefit. Yes, its efficiency or efficiency is lower than when another biomass is used to produce heat and electricity, but not zero. We can say for everything that something goes into the river or something goes empty somewhere. In this sense, this support is reasonable to a certain extent. You can always say the other way around. If we now compare renewable electricity from other sources with renewable electricity from this support, then for the national economy and the entire Estonian population, the renewable electricity produced in Narva together with heat is much cheaper than the production from several other renewable sources. Which one do we want? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U77	Thank you! There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U78	We are going to the next question to be asked by the members of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodich, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Aivar Riisalu, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Must, Kalev Kallo, Olga Sõtnik and Lauri Laasi. The inquiry was submitted on 20 October 2011. The topic of the inquiry is the building right of the new terminal of the Port of Tallinn. The question is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Deniss Borodichi, to introduce him to the inquiry!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U79	Good chairman of the sitting! Minister! Indeed, the Central Party has submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, whose subject is the building right of the new terminal of the Port of Tallinn. Dear Minister, Through the press, in particular with a multi-page article of 22 September Eesti Ekspress, members of the Riigikogu have been attracted to the attention of the members of the Riigikogu in Tallinn Harbour. It has become clear that the Port of Tallinn has decided to grant building rights for fifty years to an unknown shelf company, whose unknown shareholders are located in Cyprus and the British Virgin Islands, on the basis of a procedure that cannot be regarded as a competition, a public procurement or any other legal process with identifiable features. Currently, the Republic of Estonia does not have an overview of who has been given the right to operate with a new terminal, which is largely built for the support of the European Union's Cohesion Fund. We must admit that in addition to the very serious doubts about the legality of the decisions taken, this case has also raised questions for us about the objectives of the activities of the Port of Tallinn. Due to the logic, the aim of the Port of Tallinn should be to make optimum use of the assets transferred to the state and, of course, to make profit. At the same time, reading the comments of the management of the Port of Tallinn about Muuga's new terminal gives the impression that the aim is adventure, unwarranted risk and fairy-tale fantasizing. Of course, we would all be delighted if the new operator would bring new trade flows to our port, but in reality Russia is increasingly shifting its trade flows from Estonian ports to Ust-Luga port. The new operator, owned by offshore companies, hardly improves the situation. Of course, we'd better be wrong here. On the basis of the above and of § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, we have asked very short, specific and constructive questions. We hope to have just the same concrete answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U80	Thank you! I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U81	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Members of the Riigikogu! Questions are 12. I'm hoping to fit into the timeline. The first question: 'What is the objective of the Port of Tallinn of AS as a state-owned company? ' According to the charter of the Port of Tallinn, the aim is to obtain income in the area of its activities that ensures a reasonable profit. The second question: 'What is your assessment of the work of the Governing Board and will you give the Council a guide to extend their term of office? ' The election of the members of the Governing Board shall be the responsibility of the Governing Board. The Governing Council has decided to elect the current members of the Governing Board for a new term of office within the time allowed for the submission of the request for information. I have not given guidance on this decision and do not want to take away its work and responsibility from the Council. Question 3: 'How much has the Port of Tallinn invested in the expansion of the eastern part of Muuga Harbour? ' Since there is often no distinction between the extension of the eastern part of the port of Muuga and the new container terminal, the first explanation is that the new container terminal constitutes only one part of the development of the entire eastern part of the port of Muuga. The total investment made in the extension of the eastern Muuga port amounts to a total of EUR 73.68 million at present, including the eligible costs of the Cohesion Fund of EUR 41,98 million. The investment in the construction of a new container terminal is €55.05 million, of which the Cohesion Fund is supported by €10.47 million. Question 4: "Who was involved in the procurement of an operator to the territory of the eastern Muuga port? 'A competition for a new container terminal operator was announced to potential interested parties in one of the world's best known international maritime newspapers Lloyd's List. Separate invitations to participate in the competition were sent to 12 of Europe's and the world's most well-known container operators and held pre-supplier consultations. These companies included both terminal operators and container shipping operators. Two final offers were received: the joint offer of AS Muuga CT and Transit Centre AS and the offer of the company group Rail Garant. Question 5: "Is the Rail Guarantee Group involved in the procurement a legal entity registered in the Russian Federation? ' With regard to both this and several subsequent questions, I would first like to say that similar questions have been submitted in writing to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and since the container terminal competition and the subsequent transactions were carried out by the Port of Tallinn AS, not the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry asked AS about the Port of Tallinn. a on 25 May, writing the same questions to which the port has also answered. I rely on the port's answers. According to the port's explanations, the company group Rail Garant participated in the competition from the outset, not as a company registered in Russia, but as a group of companies. In particular, which persons were the group composed of, the port's reply is not open. Question 6: "As a minister, were you aware before the selection of the winner of the procurement by the Port of Tallinn of AS that the group of companies Rail Garant, which has no legal status, would be allowed to participate in the procurement? Do you think it is reasonable that the contract resulted in contracts with Rail Garant Estonia OÜ, the sole shareholder of which is an offshore company registered in Cyprus, the majority of which is owned by the offshore association registered in the British Virgin Islands? ' As I said, the competition was conducted by the Port of Tallinn. I was not aware of such details in advance, but you were and had to be informed about the important information about the offers and tenderers received in the competition by the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the Port of Tallinn. I assume, given their material responsibility, that they have made the necessary port to protect the commercial interests. According to the port's explanations, the terms of the call did not contain any restrictions on the tenderers based on the type of undertaking, the organisational structure or the location of the site. The offer of the group Rail Garant provided that if the group Rail Garant of companies turns out to be the best bidder, it would appoint a specific legal person registered in Estonia to sign contracts for the operation of the terminal. According to its own explanations, AS Tallinna Sadam has also checked with the help of auditors the interconnection between the companies of the Rail Garanti group. As a result, it has become apparent that Rail Garant Ltd, registered in Cyprus in a Member State of the European Union, is controlled by at least 11 companies operating mainly in Russia, either wholly or with a 50% stake. According to the port's explanations, the main owners of Rail Garant Ltd are known and their names have been previously mentioned in the Estonian press. As far as reasonableness is concerned, it is important, first and foremost, that the proprietary interests of the Port of Tallinn of AS regarding the use of the container terminal are adequately protected and that the transaction ultimately results in a good commercial result. Question 7: Have you asked and received documentary evidence of who are the final members of the offshore association registered in the British Virgin Islands? " The questions put to the port by the Ministry also covered this issue, but the documents that were clearly not presented to the Ministry by the shareholders of these associations have not been presented to them. Question 8: 'How is it guaranteed to meet the financial obligations of a person with a circle of owners hiding behind offshores in front of the Port of Tallinn? According to the explanations provided by the Port of Tallinn, the financial obligations assumed by the contracts with Rail Garant Estonia OÜ in front of the Port of Tallinn of AS are not guaranteed by persons with a ring of owners hid behind the so-called offshores, but by credit institutions with bank guarantees issued by them, which are probably guaranteed by the companies of the Rail Garant group. The ninth question: "Is it true that Rail Garant Estonia OÜ has already been granted nine hectares of additional land in Muuga harbour without a tender and has been allowed to grant another 35 hectares of land? ' Additional 35 hectares of land for Rail Garant OÜ is not allowed according to Tallinn Port. Additional approximately nine hectares of land were used by the Port of Tallinn Rail Garant Estonia OÜ for a fee exceeding the amount of remuneration paid for existing similar areas. The Port of Tallinn public limited liability company assumed already before the competition that new railways might need to be built for the container terminal to be built in the eastern part of Muuga Harbour. The port also confirms that this information has been passed on to all those interested in the construction of the container terminal during the negotiations. According to the contract, Rail Garant Estonia OÜ will establish a container train loading station for this area. Due to the fact that each possible terminal operator has its own individual solution for the logistics of the terminal and the need to establish a charging station outside the terminal area which was the object of the competition may have been absent at all, and the land under that loading station is not as limited as the terminal's own infrastructure and such areas may be offered to the terminal operator, apart from the Port of Tallinn of AS, by third parties, it was not possible to deal with precisely the land necessary for the construction of the railway during the competition. The tenth question: "Does the Port of Tallinn have guarantees on the payment of building rights, port fees and freight charges granted by Rail Garant Estonia OÜ? If so, who is the guarantor and what is the guarantee? According to the explanations provided by the Port of Tallinn, Rail Garant Estonia OÜ has the following obligations regarding guarantees. Firstly, the obligation to lodge a bank guarantee guarantee guaranteeing the payment of the building right fee before a property right agreement to enter the building right into the land register. Secondly, the obligation to provide a bank guarantee guarantee for the payment of guaranteed freight charges in the tender prior to the start of the processing of the goods. In terms of port charges, the Port of Tallinn has not required guarantees from any operator in the course of this particular competition or in the past. The contracts concluded with Rail Garant Estonia OÜ stipulate that the credit rating of a potential guarantor or guarantor must at least be at BB level. The eleventh question: "When will construction begin and by what time will the container terminal be completed? Who will have to build the infrastructure and the superstructure of the container terminal as a result of the procurement? ' The Port has by now carried out almost all the construction work at the new container terminal. Further work, the construction of rail and terminal cover and the acquisition of equipment are all the responsibility of the operator. The first building permits have been issued by the local authority to the operator, the works will start within the next month, according to the Port Board. The date of completion is forecast by the port at the beginning of 2013. As the only possible obstacle, the Port of Tallinn sees the danger that AS and/or AS Muuga CT, who have had a very sharp dispute with AS Tallinn Port regarding the competition for the new container terminal operator in the eastern part of Muuga Harbour and in particular the result thereof, will be able to stop construction activities in the area of the new container terminal by exploiting some legal possibilities. The transit centre AS and Muuga CT have repeatedly tried to achieve this both in court and in different authorities, without any consequence to date. The 12th question: "Is it true that the detailed plan established by Maardu City Council was violated when the eastern part of Muuga Port was expanded, namely when the area that was the object of the procurement was won from the sea? If the Port of Tallinn has broken the detailed plan, what is the appropriate way to resolve the situation? What does the management of the State company intend to do about this situation? ' As we know, both Maardu City Government and Jõelähtme Municipality Government issued all necessary construction and operating permits to AS in Tallinn for the construction of a new container terminal in 2008-2010. No one has contested the construction and authorisations issued, and therefore the argument put forward in the inquiry cannot be true, according to the management board of the Port of Tallinn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U82	Thank you! Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the Minister? It is. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U83	Thank you. Thank you very much for your very meaningful and concrete answer, Mr Minister. The only thing left to scratch is who owns this operator. I understand the port explained that it is indeed a company registered in Cyprus. Cyprus, indeed, is one of the Member States of the European Union. We all know there's an offshore background. I simply do not have the clarity that if it really is a large Russian company, it would need to hide in Cyprus or the British Virgin Islands if it could simply represent the company as a legal person, just as other large Russian companies have done. Is there no danger that it has been made for some other purpose, such as to sell the building right later?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U84	Thank you. I have nothing to add to what I have said before in answering this question. I am certainly not going to speculate on claims that are not one, but at least a hundred. What matters to me is that we are taking this opportunity to diversify the opportunities of our transport logistics sector. Undoubtedly, if we look at the countries along the Baltic Sea, if we look at the trade developments of the countries east of us in different scenarios, either optimistically or less optimisticly, then we can see that container transport is growing. We have to do something about this. I think it is important that we want to see the return on the investment before the Minister or the Ministry, as owner, starts making some fundamental assessments. Of course, the first preparatory work is to clarify the feasibility of the investment. I have listened to the explanations and we probably just have to take note that the structure of such transactions is organised differently with different parties. In some ways, it is also a world practice. Of course, Estonia can always try to change world practice. It is important that the Port of Tallinn has guarantees, investments are made and the Port of Tallinn still earns profits and the Estonian economy in general, as I said, diversifys the possibilities of the transport logistics sector. I also say my point of view, without really wanting to interfere, I dare say, with a relatively ugly dispute in newspapers and in court. I also understand the arguing side that you are probably representing here, because why else are we talking about all this? I think that on the other side, who has reason to ask questions, there are still some strong elements in the business plan. This cannot be excluded. In this business plan, which they have offered to the Port of Tallinn and which I have read, there are actually alternative business opportunities for Estonia, in addition, let us say, probably never ending the so-called numerical disputes about who made a better offer. That's what I'm gonna say. So if you want some final assessment from me, I want to give the port board and the board the opportunity to complete this deal. If the deal is successfully completed and economic activity starts, then, I think, it is possible, let's say, either to divide the Orders or to take the Malaka and wave it. Not before.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U85	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If, in a month's time or a little later, construction does not proceed, what sanctions will follow?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U87	I think I said, in answer to the previous question, that I assume that the offer is also a fixed-term basis. If the delays are objective, this must also be taken into account. Perhaps there is a reason to take into account the general context that is outside the hall. Of course, such investments and investors will also be discussed with the relevant institutions operating in the Republic of Estonia. I'm not going to specify what I mean by that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U88	Dear Minister, Thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U89	Let's move on to the next question, which is the sixth in line. Members of the Riigikogu Urve Palo, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Kütt, Kalvi Tõvi, Kajar Lember, Rein Randver, Neeme Suur, Rannar Vassilyev, Karel Rüütli, Marianne Mikko, Sven Miker, Heljo Pikhof, Andres Anvelt, Jaan Õunapuu and Indrek Saar have submitted an inquiry. The inquiry was submitted on 24 October 2011 and the subject is foreign investments of Eesti Energia. The question is answered by Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. I am pleased to ask Urve Palo, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U90	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, I present on behalf of 14 members of the Social Democratic Party Group an inquiry into foreign investments in Eesti Energia. In the last two years, Eesti Energia has made considerable investments, especially in Jordan and the United States. Morocco is in sight. Margus Kaasik, financial director of Eesti Energia, said in an interview given to Postimees on 4 October that only the preliminary work of these investments will cost at least one billion Estonian kroons. He did not rule out any increase in these amounts. Although Sandor Liive, Chairman of the Management Board of Eesti Energia, has said that foreign investments do not affect the price of domestic electricity, this is only half the truth. Yeah, not directly affected, but indirectly affected. In fact, as these are very high-risk transactions and banks do not grant loans for this purpose, Eesti Energia must invest its own resources. This in turn means that the share of the company's equity capital will decrease and the ability of Eesti Energia to borrow and invest in improving the distribution network, for example. We know that in Estonia, the networks are amortised faster than they are invested in replacing them. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, however, has said that the interest of Eesti Energia in making these investments is primarily due to the interest in exporting technology. Against the fact that the state of Estonia for export of Estonian Energia technology, I dare to confirm, the Social Democrats have nothing either. Let it be said immediately that the Social Democrats are very interested in maintaining employment in Ida-Viru County in the long term, which, unfortunately, is not guaranteed by the oil shale plant being built when it starts to stand for most of the time. However, oil plants established in Estonia certainly provide work for the workforce. So, when it comes to selling technology, why doesn't Eesti Energia sell technology to Jordan, but rather plans to produce electricity? How does the Estonian state expect to benefit from this, and why does the Estonian state work at establishing the security of electricity supply to the Jordanian state in the first place? We want to know exactly how much has already been invested in Jordan and how much has been recovered because something has been sold there. How much more is planned to be invested, and how much and within what time will it benefit? Why does Eesti Energia buy land and oil shale stock in the USA and invest when the real plan is to sell technology? All the more so, I would stress that the technology we want to sell is not yet available. It will only be tested in the spring of next year, perhaps in the autumn, and it will take some time until it is known how successful we are with this Enefit technology. At the same time, the Enefiti project has started with the great hurrah of Eesti Energia in the USA. But if it fails and spends millions, even billions of kroons and euros, must be written in the chimneys, then who is responsible for the Estonian people's money being played like on the stock market? It is not worth saying that the board is responsible because the board has no place to take these billions later. Eesti Energia is a project carrier in both the USA and Jordan and therefore bears full responsibility. The same plan is in Morocco. There are really many question marks about the project. Have the infrastructure costs associated with the projects been taken into account in the USA? Most of both Colorado and Utah's oil shale, including a large part of Enefiti oil shale, is located in federal land. At the same time, the federal government has no understanding of how and how to organise the oil shale industry in the US at all on a regulatory level. There are no laws to that effect. No one has much enthusiasm for dealing with it. So here's the question. The investments that Eesti Energia makes outside Estonia are very large-scale, they are all made at the same time and are not in a situation where we want to sell at all. What does the Minister of Economic Affairs say about that? We are very concerned because, in the end, all of this will be paid by the taxpayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U91	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, of the Riigikogu, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U92	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'll try to ease your concern a little bit. The first question: 'Why isn't Eesti Energia selling technology to Jordan but planning electricity production? How does the Estonian state expect to benefit from this? " The Jordanian State is interested in using oil shale for both electricity and liquid fuel production. The country of Jordan addressed Eesti Energia as a developer for the above reasons. We have experience in how to produce oil shale electricity and how to implement the most effective technical solutions. Eesti Energia does not see itself as a majority shareholder in Jordan's electricity project in the long term. Eesti Energia will launch this project, involve other investors, benefiting from the sale of the holding and the owner's income to the extent of the remaining shares. In addition, the production of oil shale electricity and oil makes it possible to create synergies in oil shale mining, which is also common practice in Estonia. As the start-up of electricity generation is technologically easier than the start-up of oil production, the development of the power plant in Jordan is moving faster than the construction of the oil industry. Like any of the activities of Eesti Energia, as a shareholder, the Estonian state expects ownership income from Jordan's venture. The second question: 'Why does Eesti Energia buy land in the USA, oil shale reserves and invest when the real plan is to sell technology? All the more so because there is no working technology today. ' Eesti Energia is an oil shale company that produces both electricity and oil from oil shale. This is the main economic activity of Eesti Energia. In this business, you can create value in two ways that support each other. One way is to produce oil shale electricity, oil, and then liquid fuel. All of this requires the existence of technology. The second, accompanying opportunity to create value is the sale of technology itself. Eesti Energia has acquired oil shale reserves in America and Jordan on a favourable basis. The profit of Eesti Energia comes first from the fact that the value of these stocks will increase if we continue to develop and apply Enefiti technology successfully here in Estonia. Secondly, the profit of Eesti Energia comes from using Enefit technology in these projects. It is important to mention that Eesti Energia does not intend to build itself in either America or Jordan until the oil industry producing diesel and other liquid fuel in Estonia is ready. If Eesti Energia had not acquired the reserves and would not do so until the domestic industry has fully started, then the price of the same stocks would probably have to be much higher. Eesti Energia is currently controlled by Utah, U.S.A., with about 2.6 billion barrels of oil. Eesti Energia paid about 2 US cents per barrel for this. The task of Eesti Energia is to develop Enefit's technology and a specific oil shale reserve so that the value of this oil as a first step is already a two-digit number of cents per barrel and that one day, when the Enefit-based oil industry is finished, its value is measured in dollars rather than cents. How and when we realise this value, i.e. how much Eesti Energia wants to sell and how much to maintain its participation in the oil industry, this does not have to be decided at the moment. It will be decided when the time is right. The right time is a derivative of technological developments, oil prices and the development of the project itself. At the same time, it is important that we continue to develop and apply technology primarily here in Estonia, where we create the most values. Question 3: 'Estonian Energy has invested in both Jordan and the United States. Only preliminary work costs more than one billion Estonian kroons. (Source: Interview with Margus Kaasik.) How much does Eesti Energia expect to earn from the sale of technology? When? How much money will the investments take, during which period and where will the money come from? ' Eesti Energia hopes to earn significantly more from the sale of technology and the increase in the value of oil shale deposits than it is necessary to invest in these projects. The time and amount of money will depend in particular on the price of oil on the world market, the efficiency of Enefiti technology and the development of projects in the country of origin. Project development phases are underway in the USA and Jordan. There are currently no decisions to make significant additional investments at later stages of the projects. The total cost of preliminary development phases up to 2016 is estimated at 100 million euros, which represents 3% of the total potential investments of Eesti Energia in the same period. In 2012, less than EUR 12 million will be invested in the development of Jordanian and US projects, while the group's investments in energy production and the electricity grid at home will amount to more than EUR 500 million. There are basically two types of licence fees paid for technology: fees related to the value of the plant and fees related to the volume of production of the plant or to profitability. Fees may depend on the price of oil as well as on a number of other factors. The exact schemes for fees specifically earned, including technology sales, are, of course, trade secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U93	Good minister! You have questions too. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U94	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In your speech, the answer to almost every question was that it would come and it would. I think one company cannot build its own business and business plan in the best faith that it will and will. I did not hear in concrete terms how much is going to be invested outside Estonia at all, in what time frame. Yes, you said one amount that has been invested so far, EUR 100 million. I realized that next year, EUR 12 million will be invested. How much is the plan to invest in the first place, and how much is the return that must come from it? I don't know what the perspective is. Five years? You didn't mention that either. It's still a very confusing story.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U95	Thank you. I'll adjust it first. You said in your question that EUR 100 million have already been invested. That's not true. I said that the total cost of the preparatory development phases up to 2016 is estimated at EUR 100 million. This is the cost up to 2016. I fully understand your desire for detailed answers and not only answers, but probably also a lot of ownership income in the state budget. I totally understand that. However, I would like to confirm that all these investment decisions, or the project development decisions that we are talking about today on two occasions, have been made in a very thorough way, addressing very seriously the different risk scenarios, both at the board of directors and at the board of directors level. The preparatory development phases will run until 2016, perhaps by 2020. Only then can we begin to provide responsible numerical answers, how much impact this could have on the company and on what assumptions it will take place. In addition, the company's model of how it participates in one project or another is multivariant, it is not one-sided. Just in case, I'll explain it again. You asked why the technology would not be sold in such a way that the buyer would go to Tallinn, go to the office of Eesti Energia Tallinn, put it in a bag, drive away and leave the key to the apartment where the money is. (I paraphrased a famous Russian movie.) But it doesn't work that easy. In order to sell this technology, there are several models that Eesti Energia has developed. One of the most likely interesting models with the greatest perspective is that in the initial phase, Eesti Energia has greater control over the development of this project until the application of this technology in one foreign country or another. This is actually the most profitable one in the end. If you ask about the main risks, of course, in the end it is entrepreneurship! This may be unusual because Eesti Energia belongs a hundred percent to the state. I believe that there are a number of Estonian politicians (not among you) and thinkers who imagine that Eesti Energia is one of the Ministry of Electricity. On the contrary, we have adopted laws in Estonia that state-owned companies must also be real companies, as the Commercial Code provides. Every investment has its own risks, no risk-free investments. You probably know that better than I do. The main question why this is of interest is still the prospect of world energy. This is a very important issue. Based on the data of the World Energy Forum and the US Geological Service, oil from known reserves of oil shale is about three to five times larger than the so-called conventional oil reserves, admitting that more reserves can always be discovered. Based on long-term forecasts of oil and the fuel produced from it, we are facing a deficit in the world, which can be concluded, although at a certain risk that the price will not go down very much. When we talk about the price view, we are not talking about one year, but the development phase lasts four plus four years at different levels, it is up to eight years for the decision on industrial investment. We take such prospects as a prerequisite for so-called world expertise. Consequently, oil shale oil production is competitive. For example, I do not believe that Eesti Energia does not believe, nor does the Ministry of Economic Affairs believe that there will be some total revolution, which is why we support this type of activity of Eesti Energia. This investment can be extremely profitable and extremely interesting for Estonia. But there could always be a different scenario. At some conferences, some sort of person also comes to the courtroom and tells us how he is going to produce energy from nothing, and the people no longer need cars. I don't believe in that scenario. The main risk is still the world's energy needs and the price of oil. You referred to the United States. It's just a comment on the detail. I believe that the different perspectives of the United States' energy policy are extremely important to us. Here, too, we have noticed a certain degree of volatility. Let us remember with which energy programme the current administration took office and which energy programme, after the bankruptcy of a well-known solar power company, together with all the bubbles resulting from it, is now under development by this administration. But the real point is, in America, you have to make a distinction between federal and private. This investment by Eesti Energia concerned private land. So we can always say that we all own a very large oil shale resource in the United States through the investment of Eesti Energia. It's on private land.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U96	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U97	Thank you. Good minister! I think I have a fundamentally different understanding of how public companies should operate. You said again that this was an ordinary company. In the case of a normal private company, it is quite understandable that it invests where it is expected to make a lot of profits. For example, there is not much desire to invest in oil shale blocks in Estonia, because it is feared that the standards will suddenly become too strict and then no profit will be made, then the state guarantees will be sought. It's kind of understandable for a private company. But you yourself said that Eesti Energia has a certain role to play, that this is not only about financial matters, for example oil shale blocks, but also about security. Do you not think it would have been reasonable if the money that Eesti Energia had left over and went to Morocco, Jordan and the USA had been invested to ensure Estonia's energy security?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U98	I hope I understand the question correctly. Any investment made by a company must be productive. The problem we discussed in relation to the previous issue was that investment in oil shale electricity production in Estonia would be sufficiently productive. This is one small problem that I think can be solved. It is not possible to force a company which operates according to the laws of the Republic of Estonia, one hundred percent or the majority of which belongs to the state, to make "cross-subsidised loss-making investments" or to make investments for money received from somewhere and actually do so without achieving sufficient returns.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U99	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U100	Thank you. Good minister! Eesti Energia has made relatively risky investments. You said earlier that these investments could prove extremely useful, but there is another possible scenario that these investments could cause many problems for Eesti Energia and, as a result, the Estonian state and people at some point. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, have you considered this option, that since oil shale is our national wealth and resource, at one point separate Estonia from Eesti Energia to protect our national resource? If there were to be a black, negative scenario, then at least we would still have this oil shale stock and our entire oil shale stock and resource would not be used to cover the risky investments that Eesti Energia has made?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U101	Thank you. Just in case, I'm adjusting the expression 'risky investments', which I'm sure you'll start talking about outside this hall as some sort of huge casino game, as Mrs. Urve Palo said in the introduction to the casino. Once again: all such activities of Eesti Energia are financially under extremely firm control. There are no proprietary risks that I consider to be significant. I'll go over it again. You probably meant to protect Estonian oil shale in any way, so that no uncle could come from anywhere and start dragging Estonian oil shale out of here. The material risks are almost non-existent, at least at present. The separation of Eesti Põlevkivi from Eesti Energia is a topic that has been repeatedly raised. I don't think that makes any sense. I do not rule out that once Eesti Energia develops as we have discussed here, it could be considered. If the oil industry has some kind of greater independent meaning, something may be considered, some clearer lines may be drawn, just as the Finns once separated Neste and Fortum for similar reasons. But it was just a speculative thing to say. At present, such fundamental organisational changes, I think, will not be won by any Estonian consumer or taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U102	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U103	Thank you. I'll come back to the return story. But first I have to sort out one thing about the previous question. Minister, thank you very much. I understand you warned me that now you're gonna bang in the slogans, but we're just talking about keeping jobs in Ida-Viru County and it should be sustainable in the long term. We argue that oil shale electricity is very likely to be uncompetitive in the long term, in contrast to the other reparation of oil shale. We know that oil production is already working very well. Why can't this be a step forward? This could be sustainable. Oil shale could continue for a much longer period and this production could be profitable. I'm coming back to my return. You're saying there has to be a return. When we talk about oil shale electricity, given the few hours the oil shale power plant can work and the size of the investment, oil shale electricity will never be profitable. Well, that does guarantee some kind of base power...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U104	Good questioner! Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U105	...but it's not competitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U106	To be honest, I didn't quite understand your question. Production still means a certain investment. Production must be at a reasonable level. It would be right for a state-owned company to invest under the same conditions as a private investor. This is the starting point. Production is an investment. Your claims on the lack of competitiveness, I believe, are not based on a particular market analysis, are not based on any perspective here in the Baltic and Nordic markets. It's a little speculative. You must be so smart, you've got brain trusts behind you. I suggest that if you do not believe me, look at the energy portfolios of European countries, look at the competitiveness of fossil fuels in very different market situations, where all these components exist. Oil shale electricity certainly has competitiveness. Of course, one of the major issues is the framework for energy and climate policy. In this respect, however, the situation with the use of oil shale electricity does not differ from that in the European countries where coal or lignite is used. There are very many of these countries. It's as if we've instilled in ourselves that there are only windmills in Europe, and that's all shal-lal-laa. No, it's not. Even if you look at countries that demonstrate themselves as very large renewable energy users, it turns out that more than half of their energy portfolio is coal too. Not to mention Germany, which is taking major steps and foreshadowing some kind of paradisaic idyllic by 2050. We need to really look at these figures, what is happening, not just a superficial, simplified approach. All of this is often motivated by the interest of one person or another. I agree with you, by the way, that if there was some kind of substitute for oil shale electricity that would meet all these parameters, then this substitution should be made. But this replacement can't just be 'other', not specifying what it is. Perhaps you will remember that between 2008 and 2009 we analysed all these options: gas, coal, nuclear energy. We analysed them from a competitive point of view, from a macroeconomic point of view, etc. I fully agree that the energy portfolio must be diversified. We're going that way. Somehow you find it criminal when biomass is used in the new power plant. I don't understand that, although I understand that a company has a certain regularity to publish newspaper articles where it doesn't even describe half the truth, but only a quarter. If oil shale and biomass are used together, then, excuse me, this is a huge diversification of the energy portfolio. I believe that we are still at such an age that we can see the real diversification of the energy portfolio. But these changes, which are inevitable, we must be able to plan more or less for 20 to 30 years. It is particularly interesting to look at the rhetoric of the Germans on the one hand and the real action on the other. After all, we all imagine that Germany does not use fossil fuels to produce electricity. It's kind of a media image. Imagine if the power plants were shut down. Then it's what we want. But where did you get it? Let us look behind the curtain at how to invest and plan to repair old coal plants and how many new plants are needed for this so-called imaginary transition period up to 2050. I believe that we, too, are moving in the direction that in 2050, I dare say so, we will not produce oil shale electricity. This could be a message from today's discussion with you. But it's 2050. The new power plant has a lifetime of 25 years. Let us call these oil shale plants a technological bridge to the clean future of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U107	In the name of Estonia's pure nature, we will go on. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A little more than a month ago, you said in Paris that Estonia has two unique experiences: rapid reform of oil shale energy and the energy sector. I believe that these are the two directions for foreign investment in energy. But I want to ask whether or not anyone has an interest in the rapid reform of our energy sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U109	The future will show. You referred to the opening of negotiations with the OECD International Energy Agency, which is considered to be an organisation in the world capable of carrying out the best expertise on this issue. Estonia is not a member of this organisation. We started negotiations, it became possible after joining the OECD. The accession negotiations process takes about a year. For each accession, apart from technical formalities, we need to talk about what is different in one or another of the new Member States compared to existing members. Indeed, we have been talking about oil shale. This interest, by the way, has been in the International Energy Agency before. We have a number of joint action plans, but it was, in fact, a recommendation from experts from the International Energy Agency. If we look at many'ready' countries, at the changes that have taken place in energy, at electricity production, and if we feel that we are still living in 1990, that is not quite the case. If we look at the structure of energy consumption, the environmental impact of energy consumption, compared to the time when the USSR collapsed, when we compare these market organisation elements, we will see that there have actually been significant changes during this period. It still seems to us that electricity burns the same way. Depends on the mood.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U110	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U111	Thank you. I hope the power doesn't start on. But here's the question. You said you had to diversify the energy portfolio. In this regard, you commended the good idea of burning chips with oil shale. How do you feel when the price of renewable energy is paid on chips, how it affects the final price of electricity for consumers, and how does this process affect the price of indoor heat in the municipalities where heat is produced in cogeneration plants that use chips?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U112	Thank you. The use of biomass in electricity production is certainly not a question of any subsidies. We have talked about subsidies for cogeneration, as it is now, with a certain, say, efficiency. In other words, the biomass use scenario should still be competitive. I also said in my main response what this possibility of using biomass could be like here. That's one. Second, the price of Aunt Maal's firewood. There have been accusations that Eesti Energia, starting to use biomass, led to the price of biomass and chips so high that oh-oi-oi! Dear people! Eesti Energia uses 3% of the Estonian timber market. In the case of a market share of 3%, it is not possible to influence the market price on a serious basis. It's just not possible. If the proportion increases, maybe it's worth looking at. However, it is worth noting that, when it comes to chipping wood in any form, wood pellets or anything else, even if it is a log, there is still at least a regional market. I believe you noticed that three weeks ago, an international biomass exchange was opened in Amsterdam. Biomass in world trade, biomass used in European countries, is a global raw material. It's a reality. All of our wood consumers must also take this into account. That's actually the way it is. Transport costs may not be significant. Of course, this does not mean that it is worth bringing biomass from somewhere very far away. But today, several European countries are using the biomass they bring from America and so on. Consequently, it is competitive. The third reason why I think the biomass issue is a very serious one. The Ministry of the Environment and forestry experts must be trusted here. I know that in the Estonian Nature Foundation, several people with greener thinking are opting for this view, which is linked to our felling volume. Above all, it concerns poor wood, not decent wood. In different years, up to half the wood will rot in the forest. Actually, it's a lost resource. What right do we leave six or seven million cubic metres in the forest to rot if, as far as I know, the total volume of cutting in Estonia per year is more than 12 million cubic metres? Again, there are objections. Cars can't access, there's swamps and everything. Whether this applies to the entire six million cubic metres, I deeply doubt that. In other words, it is, in fact, a completely unused resource in Estonia that should be used with sensible technologies. We should think about how to create demand for this resource. The same situation, by the way, exists in other forest-rich countries, such as Finland and Sweden. This renewable volume of felling remains largely unused. Here, too, there are, in fact, economic opportunities. I simply cannot understand that some small pulp mills are running, lobbying, creating such views, and we take it as world truth. I don't understand it, even though I understand their concern. We should find new ways of using rotting resources in the forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U113	Dear Minister, Thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U114	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! I thank you for your answers, and I congratulate you on, at least, trying to respond in substance and behaved politely. This is not common here, it is not good practice when ministers come here to answer. Thank you for that. Unfortunately, when it comes to investments by Eesti Energia outside Estonia, my heart is still concerned and I did not find much comfort in your answers. I still think that Eesti Energia should direct the spike to investing in Estonia and developing the Estonian oil industry. If we have an Enefit 280 working really nicely, there will be buyers. I think that the fact that we're running out of electricity in Jordan and we've been buying land in the United States has taken money from us, but from your answers for sure we're going to get a profit from it, I didn't. You said that these investments were all well thought out and considered. I understand you don't do this every day. You will receive answers from Eesti Energia and you must believe them because Eesti Energia is your responsibility. But when it comes to investments in the USA, for example, I do not know if they are meant to be if the land is purchased in an area where there is no nearer to the infrastructure, where the nearest city from which workers can be recruited is 30 miles away (but there is a need for employment of 1000 to 1500 people, they have to work every morning), where the nearest refinery is 150 miles away, but Eesti Energia says that at least in the early stages it is necessary to find the plant on the ground, not to start building itself. You said that the land purchased by Eesti Energia is not in the federal land. It's hard to tell who's right. Well, according to my information, it is. Once again, there are big question marks in the US regarding oil shale mining, this activity is currently properly unregulated and how this situation will be resolved at all, I cannot say. You also said that energy is becoming more and more expensive. Yeah, on the whole, but in the United States, unlike Jordan, there's quite a lot of fuel. There is gas, coal, Canadian oil sands nearby, and conventional oil is located in the area where oil shale supplies are purchased. Energy prices are much lower there than in Europe. In addition, in the United States, oil shale is deep underground. If Estonia is used to mining quite close to the ground, it is very deep, which makes mining even harder and more expensive. So I am still concerned about the investments that are actually carried out outside Estonia through the state company, and I am even more concerned about whether it will ever pay off for us, or whether we have to write all the money in the chimneys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U115	Thank you, Urve Palo! Lembit Kaljuvee, speaker, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U116	Madam President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we are discussing today and that we have discussed Estonia's energy problems and issues quite often in this Chamber. Today this is the second debate, and the third is still coming. We are now discussing foreign investments in Eesti Energia, but next we are discussing the investment policy of Eesti Energia at all; foreign investments in Eesti Energia are a small part of this. If we look at the investment plans of Eesti Energia in the coming years or the next decade and the planned share of foreign investments, we cannot say that this is not significant, because it is still up to 10% of the volume of investments in the coming years. I'm sure there's a topic to talk about, and I think we should talk about it. Politicians are accused of being general and trying to talk about things long and wide, but we need a 'black and white no' or 'yes' response. I was thinking that if I were asked for my opinion on foreign investment in either Jordan or America, if I looked at the pros and cons, my position would be no for both Jordan and America. Why would I show a red light? We were talking about a new oil shale boiler today. In the case of better management of Eesti Energia and the government, it could have been prepared by now and it could have made a profit for us at a time when there is no electricity in the region. CO2 quotas are currently favourable to us, we could have earned the cost of building this expensive station and we would have a capacity in our pocket. We missed it. We went to Jordan, we went to Turkey, we said we were selling something beautiful, beautiful, wonderful and wonderful, but actually we didn't do our homework. Who went to Jordan, who goes there now, who goes to America? There are people from Eesti Energia who know these things best. It's more interesting to deal with it, even though the homework is out. If we look at what we have done at home in ten years, compared to our neighbours, we can say that we have, yes, done more than Latvia and Lithuania. I don't know about Finland, but we really should have done a lot more. Jordan, as an Islamic country, certainly has its own risks today, which raises very serious questions about how to operate there. Plus, we don't have the technology we're selling. As a simple person, I would like the option that the Minister said to give this technology in a bag and take 1% of the cost of the project. That would be a pretty big amount of money that could be spent on any activity in this country. So I say no to both investments, although there are also very many pros. If you start counting them, it'll take a while. But there are more cons. The government should take a very critical view of the money placed in these activities, because we have not actually taken anything but money. Foreign investments are made in order to bring money here, but this money does not appear anywhere, not in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U117	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Minister like a final word? No, I don't. The sixth item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U118	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Viktor Vassilyev, Enn Eesmaa, Jüri Ratas, Kalev Kallo, Yana Toomi, Kadri Simson, Deniss Borodichi, Kalle Laanet and Valeri Korb on 27 October 2011 regarding investments in Eesti Energia. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Lembit Kaljuvee has once again been invited to speak on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U119	Madam President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry into the investments of Eesti Energia was handed over by the members of the Centre Party on 27 October. That's what an inquiry sounds like. According to the forecast by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Eesti Energia will need EUR 1.15 billion in additional funding for investments in 2012-2015. According to the 2012 draft state budget, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has planned financing operations of EUR 156 million. Thus, the Ministry of Finance has not taken into account the total investment needs of EUR 1 billion. According to the National Audit Office, there is still no clarity as to what the state budget of Eesti Energia already includes 150 million euros and plans to do with the missing billion. The Auditor General also complains that the future of Eesti Energia has still not been explained to the public or discussed in the government. According to Eesti Energia forecast, the volume of investments will already reach 487 million euros in the coming years. In order to finance projects, Eesti Energia wants to take out a long-term loan of 500 million euros next year. For the next ten years, the company has reached an investment decision for projects worth EUR 2.5 billion. Up to 70 million euros will be invested out of Estonia over 10 years. In this regard, we have five questions. We're asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U120	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U121	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Question one: '2012. In the 2009 budget, Eesti Energia has been promised EUR 156 million in additional capital without any explanation. How is this money to be used? ' Interesting claim, that without any explanation. I think the explanatory memorandum has explained that. However, the addition of equity capital is necessary in order for Eesti Energia to finance the investments decided upon, involving additional long-term foreign capital without violating the guarantees of existing loan agreements. Eesti Energia plans to cover 440 million euros out of the financial needs for current business cash flow and available money. Extra-corporate financing of EUR 450 million is needed. A loan of EUR 300 million is expected to be made and the remaining deficit needs to be covered by an increase in equity of EUR 150 million. It is not reasonable or possible to borrow much of the loan, as the requirements of credit rating agencies limit the credit rating capacity of Eesti Energia. As we know, Eesti Energia's bonds have been issued on the stock market and in existing loan agreements, financial ratios have been fixed as collateral. If there is any interest in this, we can later discuss what financial ratios we are talking about. The biggest investment project of Eesti Energia in the coming years is the new Narva power plant mentioned earlier in this hall with an approximate cost of 640 million euros. The next major investments in energy production are the construction of the new Enefit 280 oil plant with a total cost of EUR 207 million and the construction of the Iru waste energy block with a total volume of EUR 105 million. In order to reduce the environmental impact of electricity generation, the installation of sulphur capture equipment in Narva Power Plants is underway with an estimated total cost of EUR 120 million. The second largest investment direction is to improve the quality of the electricity network. Eesti Energia will invest 300 million euros in upgrading the electricity network over the next three years, which will allow the number of blackouts per household to be reduced by 2%. The main focus of investments in Estonia's energy sector, both now and in the future, is clearly the production of domestic electricity and the development of electricity networks. Investments abroad represent a fraction of all investments made by Eesti Energia. The issue that we have not dealt with now, and which may need to be addressed in this Chamber too, concerns possible cooperation with Lithuania, Latvia and Poland for co-investment of a nuclear power plant in the Republic of Lithuania. The second question: 'Margus Kaasik, Member of the Management Board of Eesti Energia, has assessed the company's financial difficulties in the current period until 2015, when both the power plant and the oil industry are being built. To what extent does the government intend to support the company's investments and to what extent does the company need to raise foreign capital? ' If Eesti Energia were no longer to invest in additional energy production projects, this EUR 150 million equity would be sufficient until 2015, and the loan would be available in 2012. Around EUR 450 million will be taken in 2009. However, additional investment decisions increase the need for both equity and loan capital. The following significant investment decisions will be made between the end of 2012 and 2014. Nor can we exclude that we may need additional equity in the 2013 budget. However, this depends on the way investments are made, the financial situation of Eesti Energia and the market situation. Then we can come back to that question. The forecast of the need for additional equity referred to by you is based on the forecast of long-term investments by Eesti Energia, which will certainly be very specific in the next year or two years, together with a specification of the financing plan. It is still too early to make the following financing decisions and therefore there is no speculation about how much additional investment is needed in the equity capital of Eesti Energia. The Government of the Republic will be introduced to the further action plan of Eesti Energia before making the following important investment decisions. Without prior acceptance by the government, no investment decisions affecting the capital needs will of course be taken. As regards the question of the extent to which the government intends to support the company's investments, there is no need or plan to support the oil industry. In addition, the State behaves as an investor wishing to obtain a return on its investments, and the business return on the projects is therefore a prerequisite for the expansion of the capital. The third question: 'The first oil plant should be completed in the coming year. What has the cost of this investment become, and how long is the return on the investment? How do you assess Eesti Energia's plan as soon as the first oil plant is completed to start the next oil plant project? " Enefit 280 oil plant has a budget of 207 million euros and construction is maintained within the prescribed budget according to the Estonian Energy Board. The process of construction of the plant has also been carried out according to the planned schedule. The construction works started in May 2010, the factory building has now reached its full height and all essential equipment has been installed. The construction of the plant is planned to be completed in spring 2012, and the start-up process must then be started. The plant is scheduled to start work in August 2012. Follow-up treatment and the decision to build two other Enefit 280 oil plants will be taken after the first new oil shale oil plant is expected to be launched at the beginning of 2013 at the latest. Looking at the current market situation and forecasts, the development of domestic liquid fuel production is economically justified. The production of oil shale liquid fuel is a profitable activity and values oil shale as Estonia's most important resource. The profit earned from oil shale oil production and sales is already an important part of the profit earned on the open market of Eesti Energia. The period of return on investment in an oil plant depends largely on the price of oil. If there are no major decreases or increases in this respect, the payback period may be five years. If oil shale is used to produce liquid fuel, such as diesel, naphtha, heavy fuel oil, it is possible to increase the value of production. I believe that this is an important number, which I am now saying: right now Eesti Energia receives about 23 euros of profit per ton of oil shale, making oil out of it. Given the current price of oil, liquid fuel, or diesel, naphtha and fuel oil would generate more than 40 euros of profit per tonne of oil shale according to Eesti Energia estimates. If we come back to the price of electricity, we will actually know its economic perspective, but in terms of electricity, we need to move forward in a realistic way. The period of return on investments in the oil industry will therefore continue to be affected by the investment in the after-treatment of oil shale oil. That decision has yet to be made. According to the current understanding, this is worth the effort, but the cost of the investment will be specified in the ongoing preparatory work. In addition to profitability for Eesti Energia as a company, large-scale investments have a number of wider positive effects. Eesti Energia investments work very hard for the Estonian construction sector, for example, at 280 construction sites Enefit currently employs about a thousand people a day. Developing domestic liquid fuel production will increase the energy independence of the country, create new jobs and generate additional tax revenues for both the state and municipalities. Question 4: "What do you think the impact of the grand investment plan of Eesti Energia will have on Estonian entrepreneurs and households? " Most of Eesti Energia's investments are focused on energy production. Both electricity and oil are free market goods, the price of which is determined by the regional market for electricity, the global market for oil. Estonian Energy investments have no significant impact on the regional or global energy market. If any effect is mentioned, it is more price-lowering due to the increase in supply, but looking at the proportions of Eesti Energia in the context of regional or global markets, this effect is modest. The impact of Eesti Energia's investment plan on Estonians is also reflected in additional jobs and taxes and dividends received by the state. Question 5: 'Many have been said about cooperation between the Baltic States and Estonia's opportunity to participate in the Lithuanian nuclear plant project. The final investment decision to participate in the Lithuanian nuclear power plant must be made by 2014 and Eesti Energia's investment is estimated at EUR 1 billion. Does Eesti Energia plan to participate in the Lithuanian nuclear plant project? ' Lithuania's new nuclear plant project has been complexly prepared in cooperation between the so-called regional partners since the beginning of 2009. A large number of analyses and preparatory work have been carried out, including an assessment of the environmental impact of the project, without which the project cannot be carried out. On the basis of the results of this preparatory work, a competition was organised to involve the so-called strategic investor. In July of this year, the Procurement Committee decided that the best offer was made by the Japanese-US Joint Undertaking Hitachi General Electric. In cooperation with Hitachi General Electric, technical preparations for the project and negotiations on contracts have continued. On behalf of Estonia, Eesti Energia participates in this process with its commercial partner. Eesti Energia participates in this preparatory work and negotiations with the aim of taking part in the Lithuanian nuclear power plant. However, without the creation of a regional electricity market, the impact of electricity imports from third countries on unbalanced and commercially sustainable contracts cannot participate in this project. So here are the terms. Making a very large investment in the electricity production project in some of Estonia's nearest countries will in any case require a positive effect on Estonia's security of supply, which is the main basis of our negotiating position. When the negotiations could be concluded, whether Eesti Energia will participate in the project, what the size of Eesti Energia's participation and its cost will be, can not be quite stated today. I hope you understand that. We want to provide information to the public as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U122	Thank you very much, Minister Juhan Parts. Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U123	Thank you. I am asking about the same subject that I started to discuss on the previous points on possible State aid in relation to the budget for next year. In general, State aid is subject to four principles: the aid is granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid is granted to the recipient, the aid is granted to a certain undertaking or to the purchase of certain goods, and the aid distorts or threatens to distort competition. These conditions are all met with the aid we are planning to provide. In addition, the new oil shale plant is not economically profitable either. The representatives of Eesti Energia from both the board and the management board have said this. What are we based on when we say that this is not State aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U124	Thank you. I don't quite understand. You have said with certainty that you are now asking a question about state aid in relation to the state budget. Once again, this is the government's proposal to make an investment in equity, which must be seen as a financial investment. The direct reason for equity investment lies in the answers to the Centre Party's questions. This concerns different reasons, starting with the ability of Eesti Energia to raise foreign capital for the execution of its investment plan. We are not even talking about a specific investment here. I tried to give a list of what this investment plan is, which should include equity capital, in order to also take into account financial ratios and existing credit agreements. There are different examples of equity to foreign capital ratios, net equity debt to costs, etc. Of course, they are a prerequisite for an investment. Count our creditors, those who lend us credit. No bank, no bondholder will lend unless it sees that these investments are productive. I also answered the question of the Centre Party about how many years this investment should actually pay off. If the State makes this equity investment, it is a financial investment. Try to understand that. This is not State aid. It can always be assessed whether the business plan is realistic. We, as owners, can appreciate that. By the way, we have done so, this has been done by the board of Eesti Energia and the council. We have done so in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we have also asked for independent expertise to be able to say that yes, it is a good plan. But I think the most important investment is if they are 'bankable', because we are not so uneconomic that we would only make this kind of investment out of equity. This is not usually the way things are done in companies. You're talking about state aid. Don't talk, please! I don't know why you're saying this. I tried to explain it to you. I am very grateful for this constructive discussion and I would like to give a compliment to Mrs Palo, but let us be precise about it. It is not public capital, it is an equity investment, for these reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U125	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U126	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Elering's leader, Taavi Veskimägi, has said that the time for cheap energy has passed. In this regard, I have the question: will the huge investments we make in our energy not come at all to the aid of households and company leaders?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U127	I realized the question was whether electricity would become more expensive or not. Once again: the price of electricity just a big change in the market, it's the market price. At the moment, our perception of the electricity market and of the price on the market is likely to be rather vague; we feel insecure. We are definitely trying to work with Elering and Nord Pool at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We should talk more about how and on what basis the price will actually develop on the power exchange. This is particularly necessary given that, as from 1 January 2013, this amendment will apply to all. Light the stock market, light the market. We can be reassured by the fact that the Nordic solution, which has been brought to Estonia, has been highlighted around the world, I dare say as a good solution. Of course, the market will operate when there are sufficient players on the market, i.e. this process also requires a certain amount of time. We need to establish connections. We must achieve that there are similar rules of play in other Baltic countries, not just on this side of the Baltic Sea. These are very important things. It was about the market price. Who is the wise one who can predict the market price not only by tomorrow, which we all want to know, or by next year, but also by longer? It cannot be ruled out that processes can go backwards. Consider that the price of oil was ten years ago, 10 dollars a barrel at the beginning of this century, 25 dollars a barrel in 2009, and we enjoyed the lower gas price for a little while, etc. But now it's a hundred dollars! Can this process go in the same direction? It's considered unlikely, but it certainly doesn't just go up. In general, all energy prices are related to oil prices. Electricity is almost the cheapest in Estonia compared to other European Union countries, we are after Bulgaria in the back. I do not agree with Taavi Veskimägi in this sense that it should be said to the Estonian people: 'Damn, enough of this cheap electricity! ' No, I think the goal of getting the best, fair price, most competitive electricity is important. But we must achieve this in a sustainable way. That is a very important objective. It is unsustainable to have this idea, which no one really shares in this hall any more, that there is some sort of Department of Electricity that produces cheap electricity from nothing. This is an unsustainable concept. We must invest and all these investments must be cost-effective. I agree that the global environment and the European environment are extremely important for electricity and energy in general. We all understand that European energy and climate policy is a very important influence. It does not affect a specific price through a CO2 quota, whether free of charge or for a fee, depending on these rules, but actually gives very strong signals in which technology to invest. I have to be honest with you, there's the greatest risk of error here. We're artificially signaling, so listen, everybody go and put some sunshine on the field. This is not economically sustainable. We're signaling other technologies. This is not only Estonian specificity, it is actually the biggest risk of failing on a beautiful day in this kind of'regulatory environment'. In this sense, investment in an oil shale power plant is certainly a more secure option than experimenting with large investments in technologies that can have a much shorter life span than banks are currently lending for it. It was a long and complicated answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U128	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U129	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We've been discussing performance for a long time and enjoyably today. I have a question: can we do this in order to assess exactly how the stories of productivity really are, to use further expertise, because we here are politicians and we have our own faith? If Eesti Energia is going to borrow for its investment projects, we would also see an investor or bank analysis of how the returns of these investment objects and the risk of investment are assessed. I think that if Eesti Energia puts all its investments together in one package, it will receive one interest on the whole thing, but if we bring out these objects, the interest rates on these objects will be very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U130	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U131	Is it possible to ask the bank for an analysis of how it assesses the return through bank interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U132	First of all, I agree that, for all investment projects, if banks provide foreign capital, if we do not take it from the market (it cannot be ruled out that it may be reasonable to take bonds in some respects too, because we have excluded the so-called stock investment stock exchange for certain reasons), it must, of course, be seen on a project basis. It is certainly possible to provide much more information to a member of the Riigikogu, but these analyses relate to certain business secrets. If there is such an interest, we will try to clarify the procedure. But this risk analysis is about two things. First of all, either I give you a loan or I don't give you a loan. We see this as actually reflected in the interest rate. In addition, Eesti Energia is appreciated by rating agencies, its ratings are visible. From this we can see what the bank's assessment is. The bank can always claim security, but it also does some kind of expertise. If we come back to this two- or three-year-old debate, when the cabinet was looking for solutions to include private capital for this kind of market investment, and the government office did not go that way, and that is why we have made this equity contribution to the budget, then it must be said that it would, of course, be more secure to include private capital. There are several assessors. But once again, as the owner, I think if Mrs. Urve Palo said that neither the ministry nor the government are looking at it, it's not true. We have appreciated these things, we have taken a number of'second opinions'. We have used the Competition Authority's expertise, above all there are important links to the CO2 quota price forecast and the electricity price forecast over the lifetime of this investment. This life span is 25 years. These are all such connections that if something happens to one, what happens to the other. In fact, we do not even want to emphasise it so much, but it cannot be ruled out that if we are thinking of a normal rate of return, then perhaps there is no need for any free quota, but given the current knowledge it is necessary. At the moment, no one can have knowledge of the price of the CO2 quota. We will base the European Commission's recommendations on what could be the average CO2 quota price for the years 2013 to 2019. That's, by the way, 19 euros for a ton. But all kinds of smart people write in blogs and speak in newspapers. Someone speculates that the price of the CO2 quota in Europe will certainly be EUR 90 per tonne in the next seven years. If it is 90 euros for a tonne, then, ladies and gentlemen, all of Europe's energy is exactly where it is. This competitiveness in Europe is no longer tolerated. This is not my subjective opinion, but it has been discussed by European economic ministers and energy ministers. We need to look at the impact on the competitiveness of Europe as a whole, not only through energy prices, but, after all, the price of the CO2 quota directly affects the industrial sector. There is now a final attempt in South Africa to reach some kind of global agreement. This test is unlikely to be very successful. This means that Europe will be completely alone. We are in an economic crisis. Europe is looking for growth prospects, growth opportunities. At the same time, in 2013, during this period, companies may therefore have an additional incentive not to invest in the European economy. That is a big and difficult question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U133	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister Parts. We're going to the negotiations. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U134	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say for the second time today that I like that we are discussing these issues here, the Minister of the Coalition and the opposition parties on the other hand. So what are we going to do about these three energy points? We have a development plan for the energy economy. Today we're talking about this, we're taking it as a measure. The minister spoke from the direction. We can say that in the general principle, our direction has been correct in terms of the development plan being properly developed. It's broad-based, and there's been a chance to move on, but in order to move on, we have to look back once. We need to see what we are doing and what we are spending on, whether this step is right and whether the instruments we are using are right, whether they are right in terms of whether they are big or small, and whether we are suffering from it or whether we need to put more of it on or whether we can put it on. My story may be getting a little too wide, but if you look back, really, what have we been doing in energy in ten years? Two oil shale blocks, EstLink 1 cables, also Eesti Põlevkivi, have been reorganized. It's all in the first half of ten years. So what have we done in the second half? We have started working on serious projects. Some of them are already in the "roofing" phase, but some are in the initial phase. If we look at plans for the next five years or if we look at what we have to do, what we do, I have a lot of comments. I believe that the government will also take them into account. Speaking of oil investment policy, the figures that the Minister said here are correct, the oil production is useful. But if we look at how private capital does it and how Eesti Energia does it, it turns out that the Viru Chemistry Group created a new oil plant for one billion kroons and its capacity is twice that of the new Enefiti technology, but the investments of Eesti Energia per volume unit are twice as high. The Viru Chemistry Group plant cost a billion kroons, but now we're talking about the cost of the new Enefiti plant of three billion kroons, which means 200 million euros. Is that reasonable? Is that right? We do not know exactly what to say here in the Riigikogu, but we want these things not to be so prominently expensive, because it ultimately affects the price of electricity, also the oil industry, because it is all one group. If we look at what's going on with the new power cell...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U135	Would you like more time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U136	... then here we also have a number of questions. As far as the new Iru waste station is concerned, I am aware of how the negotiations on this waste station took place in the Council. I know something about how the board discussed it and how this oil station was pushed here. There is no garbage in Estonia! The decision came from the Council that this waste plant would be made, but after a little while it turned out that it would now also be heated with wood. Just like the oil shale plant. You have to put wood there, too, because there isn't enough garbage. But if you look at the requirements for the incineration of waste and the requirements for the burning of wood on thermal energy, it turns out that if wood and garbage are to be put in one boiler, you need expensive technology again. Trashing is much more expensive. Our heat generators, our designers, they don't understand. Of course, anything can be designed when a monopoly company pays. There are two reasons. We are looking at renewable energy based on wind farms. I remember four years ago, the windmills were supposed to be standing on Narva's ash fields. They are now standing up and are so expensive that there is certainly no other wind farm so expensive in Estonia. There is the cost price of production that Indrek talked about, many percentages or even many times higher than in other wind farms. We want the investments made by Eesti Energia to be reasonable. The Monopoly takes up and does things with public money that are expensive and that are indirectly to be paid by the taxpayer in the price of electricity. All these steps are either directed or controlled by the Ministry, in my opinion, too weak or unsuspecting. There should be no such paradoxical examples. As far as this 156 million is concerned, as an economic person, I understand that this decision of the government was actually reasonable, because this money was earned by Eesti Energia, it is simply raised from one line to another, it is a "balance sheet entry" and it allows Eesti Energia to get cheaper money from the market. It would be the right thing to do, but it's just a matter of use. We can't make expensive choices. I didn't mention the nets. We didn't have much talk about them today, and Eesti Energia has not been very enlightened in its plans, but there is also a lot of work to do here. So strength for the Minister to resolve these serious issues!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U137	Thank you very much, Lembit Kaljuvee. No further speeches have been registered. The Minister has no wish to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. We've been through all our enquiries. Thank you very much, Minister Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U138	If you want to register for an appearance in a free microphone, you can do so now. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U139	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week's TV show "The Spectator" brought us the real truth about this party and its top politicians who are actually involved in bringing Eastern money to Estonia. According to Indrek Raudse, one of the managing directors, this is a very profitable activity for the Estonian state. Thanks to their actions, we can pay teachers, train children, balance the country's balance of payments, etc. True, the Prime Minister called these reasons foolishness in the cube, but neither does the Prime Minister need to understand all good intentions and the transactions that are profitable to the state. Minister of Economy Juhan Parts was much more optimistic about the business idea of a group of party-companies. He admonished us to make hasty conclusions and felt that we were all involved in legal entrepreneurship. I personally and several people I've spoken to seemed extremely cynical. Or maybe we're all missing something from the government? For example, it has been overlooked that the Citizenship and Migration Department of the Police and Border Guard Board has already been privatised. Why else do poor politicians of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Indrek Raudne, Siim Kabrits and Nikolai Stelmach, have to deal with the formatting of residence permits and ID cards in private business, as it turns out, with the full support of the Minister of Economic Affairs, and the first two must do so alongside the work of a time-consuming and sufficiently tense member of the Riigikogu? But you must sacrifice yourself for the good of your party and Estonia. Moreover, provided that this sacrifice also helps to improve their personal financial situation a little. The 'Spectator' was asked for €3500 to €4,000 for the service, with small additional conditions: half before the permit was issued and half after and all in cash. I had an occasional conversation with an entrepreneur who had also come into contact with a citizen who had obtained a residence permit because of the entrepreneurs mentioned above. He had mentioned that the fee was EUR 10000. Perhaps it was a single exception, perhaps it was not so reliable and therefore had to pay more. This, however, raises a serious question. The payment was made in cash, isn't it? But have all the fees received been accounted for and paid all the taxes? I am thinking of VAT, income tax, social tax and, of course, unemployment insurance. In particular, since the Citizenship and Migration Department has not yet been privatised and will start issuing residence permits again in the future, the unemployment benefit is desperately needed for former entrepreneurs. I don't think the Minister for Economic Affairs knows this as a supporter of good entrepreneurs, but the IRS might be interested. If we take only EUR 4 000 as a basis and consider that it was about 140 cases, then it is not so small. However, as regards the customers who have received a residence permit, who have a rather suspicious background in Russia, even the head of the underground structures of some cities has been mentioned and who knows how many such people there are still, security structures should be interested in it. I have also had a discussion with several people on this subject. Most are of the opinion that since they are members of the Party of the Government Union and, more importantly, the party associates of the Minister of the Interior, there is no chance of nine against one. In the worst case, it happens like when the Reform Party allegedly asked for a million for the buy-back of Estonian Railways, or like when Rein Lang leaked state secrets. The competent bodies state that all the circumstances have been checked, that everything has been perfectly legal and that the state of Estonia has been very useful. If the members of the Centre Party had been involved in this activity, the CPO would have been press releases of state-risk acts in all the newspapers. We live, see if the established image of the activities of law enforcement agencies survives, or if there's a turn of events. No one believes that the Minister of the Interior was unaware of the matter, because the Police and Border Guard Board is under the administration of the Ministry of the Interior and the fact that blood fresh immigrants have been granted a large number of residence permits definitely had to reach the desk of the Minister of the Interior. Finally, I appeal to the members of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and to the supporters of the party with a proposal or a call. Take it the way you feel better. Find a little self-criticism and manhood within you, and no longer speak about the issues of the agreement between the Estonian Central Party and the Russian party Unique Russia. This agreement is tens of times more public and honest than the agreements concluded between the top politicians of your party and the various structures of Russia, which poses a real threat to Estonia's independence and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-05_U140	Thank you very much. No further speeches have been registered. Today's agenda has been exhausted and today's session closed. Good night. Closure of the sitting at 6.52 p.m.
