ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U1	Respectable Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. First of all, there is the possibility of handing over drafts and enquiries. I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia relating to the amendment of the State Defence Act and other laws of the Republic of Estonia. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Mart Laar. Secondly, the draft law amending the railway law. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U3	Thank you! Next, call chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will give the Riigikogu the draft law on the person sent to the nuclear disaster area. As you all know, it was recalled, last week the Chernobyl disaster was 25 years old. Many thanks were given to those to whom Europe is infinitely indebted. All of us in this hall, our children and our grandchildren, are also indebted to them for our health. At the same time, we directly have some discriminatory legal provisions that exclude about 1300 people from the social benefits system from the 3140 Chernobyl veteran. In order to remedy this, the Centre Party Group will hand over a draft to this effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U5	Thank you very much. There are no more drafts to deliver. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday, 4 May, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Secondly, I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. It has also been announced that today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in the Chamber of the Estonian Parliamentary Group of Bosnia and Herzegovina, convened by Margus Hanson, and a meeting of the Harjumaa Support Group, convened by Kalev Lillo. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. 93 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 8. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. Today we have three draft decisions of the Riigikogu on the agenda and a key national issue for the discussion of the state's monetary policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U6	The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Special Committee on the Control of the National Budget' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Väino Linde, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U7	Have a nice morning, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! In fact, it is quite an honour to be the opening rapporteur for the new Riigikogu in the reading and processing of the drafts in this Parliamentary Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, as incredible as it may seem to some of us today, the processing of very different drafts in this Chamber of the Riigikogu will become our main activity for the next three years and ten months be honest! Pursuant to § 19 of our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Special Committee of the Riigikogu is formed on the basis of the Act and for the performance of the tasks arising from the Act or the Foreign Contract. As we remember, the Constitution says that the National Audit Office is a state body carrying out independent economic control in its activities. According to the National Audit Office Act, the Auditor General submits the results of this inspection to the respective special committee of the Riigikogu. In order to carry out these tasks, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has initiated a draft decision of the Riigikogu to set up a special committee for the control of the state budget. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered this issue in three sessions and did so with the aim that the procedure of the draft decision would proceed smoothly in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. We have already made a kick-off on 11 April, when we discussed the general issues relating to the special committee and we have proposed to the political groups that they submit their nominations for the members of the committee and their alternates. We were aware in the committee that the Board of the Riigikogu and the leaders of the political groups of the Riigikogu had already decided together that the special committees of the Riigikogu would come from the current composition of eight members, i.e. each political group would be represented by two members on the committee. At the meeting on 19 April, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs examined the proposals made by the political groups and decided to initiate the draft in the wording that it is on your table. Whoever does not have it yet can take the bill from the shelf in the back wall of the Riigikogu hall. Since the Board of the Riigikogu had also appointed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as the lead committee for this draft, on 21 April we reviewed the text of this draft decision again among our other beautiful items on the agenda. The committee really decided to consensually propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading of this draft be completed today, and by the deadline for submitting amendments, we ask to set such a great time as on 3 May at 1.45 p.m. It was also our proposal from the Commission that, when the first reading of the draft is closed, the second reading debate could take place the day after tomorrow, that is Thursday, 5 May, and if the second reading is closed, the draft could also be adopted as a decision. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the special committee on the control of the state budget to be set up is to ensure, in cooperation with the Riigikogu and the National Audit Office, control of the Government of the Republic in terms of the implementation of the state budget and the sustainable, efficient, effective and lawful use of state assets and state budget resources. To conclude, if we form this special committee, like everyone else that is expected to come to the table today, according to the law, the working hours of the special committees will be on Monday 13.30 p.m. and Thursday 16 p.m. until the agenda is exhausted. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U8	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No negotiations, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is s. a 3 May at 1.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U9	We will proceed to the second item on the agenda and begin the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu 'Construction of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Borodichi, vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of § 19 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and § 36 of the Security Authorities Act, the Riigikogu decides to establish a draft special committee on the supervision of security authorities to carry out the functions mentioned in point 2. The Constitutional Commission, as the lead committee, discussed the draft at its meeting on 21 April. As in the previous paragraph, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated and that the Riigikogu management board be invited to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 1.45 p.m. on 3 May. When the first reading of the draft is closed, the suggestion to the Riigikogu Board is that the second reading of the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 5 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U11	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee was to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 3 May at 1.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U12	The third item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Ms Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 19 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and § 14 of the Anti-Corruption Act of the Riigikogu, the Constitutional Committee has submitted a draft decision to the proceedings setting up a special committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act to carry out its duties under the Anti-Corruption Act. Pursuant to § 19 of the Act, a special committee is set up, its composition is appointed and, in addition to each full member, an alternate is appointed, and the tasks and procedures for reporting on its activities are laid down. As Mr Linde explained on the first draft, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also discussed this draft in two sessions. Our proposal is to support the draft, conclude the first reading and present amendments by 13.45 today at the latest. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U14	Any questions? No questions for the waitress. Thanks for the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee was to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 3 May at 1.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U15	Ladies and gentlemen, We come to today's last, fourth item on the agenda, which is the debate on public finances as a key national issue. Let me briefly outline the procedure for this debate. First, the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, will have 20 minutes to give his presentation. The Deputy Governor of Eesti Pank Märten Ross will then receive the floor. There's also 20 minutes for his report. The presentation will then be made by Mr Sven Sester, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the time will be 20 minutes. I would like to draw the attention of the members of the Riigikogu to the fact that on this item each member of the Riigikogu is able to submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteurs. Each waitress has up to 20 minutes to answer questions. After questions-answers, we open negotiations, during which five minutes can be spoken about the Riigikogu speaking desk and, if necessary, three minutes more time. In accordance with the custom, I propose to the honourable Riigikogu that the representatives of the political groups first take the floor and then the other members of the Riigikogu take the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. I am pleased to ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I believe that it is a very good time to discuss this issue in the Riigikogu as a matter of national importance, because the economies of Estonia, Europe and the world are overcoming the deepest recession of recent decades, and we also have new frameworks for European monetary policy. In 2011, we can expect the growth that began last year, amounting to 1.5%, to continue in the euro area and in the European Union. In itself, this is not too little, and it is close to Europe's potential growth. However, the pace of exit from the crisis remains to be desired in many countries, and there is reason to ask whether the economic downturn has had a more lasting impact on the global economy and whether unemployment in developed countries will be higher than before the crisis for a longer time. The high price paid for overcoming the crisis in developed countries is problematic. Both the US and the European Union have public debt above or above 90% of GDP. Government debt in large developed countries has never increased so rapidly and to this level in peacetime. It is therefore difficult to predict the development of the global economy, where the governments of the major countries are taking steps to limit debt. The pace of recovery and debt reduction will in turn have a direct impact on the soundness of the financial system and the banking sector. In view of all these risks, it is important to ensure a stronger development of Europe. Europe and the euro area must increase their growth potential and make every effort to prevent such a financial crisis from occurring again. That is what we mean by drawing up our strategies and action plans. The development of Estonia over the last year has been more evaluable in the light of the risks to the European economy. Estonia has come out of the crisis stronger in terms of structure, and we can view the coming years with moderate optimism. The rapid growth in exports, industrial production and productivity started at the beginning of last year and will continue this year. Estonia's current account is in surplus and exports of goods and services exceed imports. This confirms the desire, willingness and skills of society and the economy to restructure their activities and to cope with rapidly changing circumstances. In addition to the rapid growth in the export of industry and goods and services, the share of domestic demand, or investment consumption, is increasing this year. Looking back on government policies during the crisis, it is clear how important it has been to keep the budget close to balance, avoid the growth of sovereign debt and join the euro area. In a small and open economy and in a responsible economic policy more generally, there is little point in talking about the active role of government in artificially and temporarily stimulating domestic demand. The main objective of economic and monetary policy is to maintain the country's credibility even in difficult times and to create the prerequisites for economic adjustment to changing circumstances. This is the only way to ensure investor confidence, continuity of productive investments and job creation. This is the only way to ensure the sustainable development of Estonia based on the fundamental values of an open society. Public finance problems cannot be pushed to the next generations; they must be dealt with immediately. The experience of recent years highlights not only the importance of crisis management but also the need and importance of crisis prevention. The reserves collected in the years preceding the crisis enabled public spending to be financed during the economic downturn and did not make budget implementation dependent on high interest rates on the money markets. Despite the fall in revenue, funding for education and active labour market policies, including continuing education and wage subsidies, increased and the public pension rate increased in 2009. Estonian government investments have increased steadily in recent years and we are probably the most effective in using structural funds in the European Union. As a result of these steps, fiscal policy was able to significantly support economic adjustment and mitigate the effects of the crisis. It is estimated that the fiscal stimulus for 2008 was 5.4% of GDP on the basis of the nominal fiscal position. In the global economic crisis, Estonia was one of those who firmly followed the principles of policies supporting sustainable development. We have implemented measures to support the entrepreneurial spirit of an open society that correspond to the resources at our disposal. Targeted fiscal consolidation, especially in the second half of 2009, sound banking and structural reforms allow for the benefits of adaptability. We started the 2011 policy planning cycle with a new and comprehensive workflow. Last Thursday, the government approved the country's fiscal strategy for 2012-2015 as a key document on monetary and economic policy. The budget strategy is also based on the Estonian Stability Programme approved by the Government and the Estonian Competitiveness Plan, on which the European Union and the euro area assess the compatibility of policies with the common European objectives. The country's fiscal strategy sets the general economic policy objective of the government to improve long-term economic growth prospects, based on balanced and high added value, the development of the business environment and the flexible functioning of the labour market. In budgetary policy for the coming years, I would like to highlight four principles. Firstly, the government budget will be surplused by 2013 and the surplus will increase to 1% of GDP by 2015. The government sector is in structural surplus throughout the period. Economically speaking, the revenue and expenditure of the State is already balanced. The surplus is also particularly important in the light of the longer-term challenges of monetary policy, the main of which is the financing of age-related expenditure in the coming decades. The overall objective of the structural surplus is consistent with the euro area framework. Secondly, the level of net government assets is maintained throughout the programme period, i.e. liquid assets are in excess of the debt burden. The difference between assets and liabilities will decrease in the coming years, but they will start growing from 2015 onwards to ensure Estonia's stable development in the future. Thirdly, the tax burden is falling to pre-crisis levels and, above all, labour-related taxes are decreasing. The tax burden will be reduced both by the recovery of mandatory funded pension payments by 2012 and by compensation for those who continue to pay. In order to increase the profitability of work, the government will reduce the rate of income tax to 20% and reduce the rates of unemployment insurance contributions. In summary, the tax-GDP ratio will fall to 31.1% by 2015. In 2010, it was 33.5% of GDP. Fourthly, despite the lighter tax burden, the revenue of the State is increasing. Tax revenues increase by an average of 6% per year between 2012 and 2015. Accelerating economic growth and increasing employment will increase tax receipts. In addition, State revenue is also supported by corporate dividends, the increasing increase in tobacco excise duty in 2013 and the lowering of the maximum tax credit. No increase in operating costs is planned for public authorities and the volume of investment in the budget is increasing every year. In the second part of the presentation, I will address the changes made in the last year of economic and monetary policy cooperation between the European Union and the euro area. For years, Estonia's policy has been in line with the substantive requirements of the euro area and has been based on the very close integration of monetary policy and banking with the European Union and the euro area. In 2010, Estonia was the country with the lowest debt and deficit in the European Union, and we are once again one of the fastest growing European economies. Estonia's experience in dealing with the crisis and getting out of the crisis can and must be one example of how a euro area Member State needs to adapt to the changed economic situation. Responsible, surplus-oriented fiscal policies and the ability of the economy to adapt must become the norm for all euro area Member States. I would also stress that many of the problems and risks that attract public attention are far from inherent in all the countries of the European Union and the euro area. The situation of Estonia's main economic partners is good. The growth of Germany, Sweden and Finland is impressive, with sound budgetary control and overall balance in the structure of the economy. On the one hand, their strong exports are competitive in emerging markets, on the other, domestic demand is also accelerating. The progress made by Latvia over the last two years in stabilising the economy, implementing structural changes and restoring growth is to be welcomed. Our main partners and our own experience confirm that the general principles of European Union policy are supportive of growth and development if they are to be followed in everyday life. Unfortunately, neither all Member States nor the European Union as a whole have always followed the principles of the Treaty. In the last decade, the vulnerability of the economy got out of control. Despite strong economic growth, most countries did not consider it necessary to build up reserves, but pursued a sluggish fiscal policy and increased public debt. The rapid development and integration of the financial sector came as a surprise not only in Estonia but also in the European Union. Access to finance so simplified, and cross-border groups in the single financial market developed at such a rate that banking policy did not catch up. Rapid credit growth, rising asset prices and missed risks in the search for revenue are key words that characterise pre-crisis policies. As a result of relaxed fiscal policies and irresponsible risk-taking, differences between euro area countries accumulated, wages often increased much more strongly than competitiveness would have allowed. Growth was increasingly based on domestic demand, bank loans and the real estate sector, and differences in current account positions and indebtedness increased. Risk was underestimated in both governments and the private sector and aggravated by the inability to assess and recognise the macroeconomic spill-over of financial risks. The actual readiness for crisis management and resolution was weak, but the relatively good years masked fundamental problems. The crisis of confidence only erupted in the first half of 2010, when markets were experiencing serious hesitation in the face of the low growth of several Member States, fiscal policies and problems with the bursting real estate bubble and banking. The impact of the crisis is boosted in weaker countries and increased risk in the wider European financial markets. To ensure stability, the European Council and the Council of Ministers agreed in 2010 and in the first half of 2011 on a number of steps that create the prerequisites for a firm exit from the crisis and for raising growth potential. In principle, nothing new or surprising has been agreed: public finances must be put in order, the financial sector must be cleansed of bad loans and put into stronger frameworks. Structural reforms must be carried out to increase competitiveness and prepare for longer-term challenges such as ageing. As summarised in one sentence, the measures aim at supporting cooperation between the Member States in order to ensure that economies are compatible with the formal and substantive rules of the European Union and the euro area. The measures agreed are worth mentioning first of all the strengthening of economic policy cooperation. Stable economic growth is a prerequisite for a proper budget and a sustainable economy. Strengthening the European Union's growth potential has been a key issue for years. The Europe 2020 strategy for competitiveness and growth and the Member States' reform programmes will give a fresh start in this direction. In order to meet the objectives set out in the strategy, a closer linking of reforms to national budgetary plans within the framework of the European semester is a hope. As a logical continuation, the European Union's own budget for the next period should focus on implementing the objectives set out in the strategy. The 'Euro plus' pact, in addition to the euro area, is also a sign of the importance of competitiveness issues, by which six more Member States take on a voluntary target and subject themselves to collegial pressure in carrying out reforms. The single currency and the single financial market create the need for closer cooperation and more binding political commitments. The second objective is to ensure that the fiscal commitments made by the Member States are not circumvented. Member States will have to comply with the agreed schedule to reduce the budget deficit to at least 3% in 2013. This objective is a minimum. The euro area budget deficit was also 6% in 2010 and public debt was 85% of GDP. The excessive deficit procedure has not been initiated in relation to only three countries: Estonia, Sweden and Luxembourg. Reducing deficits and exiting the excessive deficit is also a prerequisite for taking decisive steps to reduce the imminently expanding public debt. Countries in a deep crisis, such as Greece, Ireland, Portugal, must consistently comply with their commitments under the programmes. This means budgetary consolidation, the suppression and reduction of debt growth and, most importantly, structural reforms. There can be no gentleness here, because every compromise means one step closer to the next crisis of confidence. In a context of economic recovery, the ambition to act even more resolutely should grow. Thirdly, we all want to achieve a stable economic and budgetary development in the European Union. The European Union and the euro area have a role to play here, both individually and collectively. Everything begins with the responsibility of the Member State and the organisation of the budget and economy under the conditions of monetary union and the common market. This is an obligation that each country has entered into when signing the Treaty. The fulfilment of the economic policy objectives set out in the Treaty and the coordination of policies are based on the Stability Pact. Over the past year, experts, senior officials, ministers and Heads of State have been working on strengthening and improving it. The legislative package, which reforms the Pact and complements the current monitoring of the economic policies of the European Union, has now reached negotiations with the European Parliament. The new regime is expected to apply in the coming year. I dare say that the economic policy thinking of the Member States has already changed. Political will is always the key and proof of this is those countries where responsible fiscal policies have been managed under the rules that have been in place to date. There are therefore all the prerequisites for the EU-euro area cooperation framework to support the sustainable policies of the Member States. I would like to highlight the main features of this. Firstly, the new framework contains stronger legal and pressure mechanisms. Collective pressure and advice, as well as the possibility of sanctions, will help to ensure proper fiscal policy in normal circumstances and a rapid exit from the excessive deficit. This is an important step forward. The texts agreed in the Council of Ministers constitute a compromise between, on the one hand, more automatic sanctions and, on the other, countries in favour of a greater role for ministers. We belong among the first. Secondly, the sovereign debt criterion changes. This has so far been in the background, and its reduction is required consistently. Thirdly, a comprehensive monitoring of the economic development of the Member States will be introduced in order to prevent crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U17	Mr. Secretary of Finance, unfortunately, the presentation is scheduled for 20 minutes. Perhaps it will be possible to open up more issues in the course of answering questions. We have already registered several questions. Please, Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U18	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, thank you for your thorough presentation. You stressed that the main thing is to maintain the credibility of the state and to keep public finances in order. But let us also mention what it is actually at. We know that our standard of living has fallen, real wages are decreasing, people's poverty is increasing, food prices are already higher than those in London, unemployment is high and people are leaving Estonia. Why didn't you address these aspects of this issue in your problem-setting?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U19	Thank you. My job was to talk about public finances. As far as credibility is concerned, it is the key to avoiding problems in the future and in the present. If you followed closely, even though 2010 was clearly the year of economic recovery, the crisis of confidence in the markets only exploded in 2010, although the decline began in 2008. This means that countries were no longer able to finance the promises made to the electorate. It is not just a question of the will of politicians. After all, politicians may squander the markets, what they do, the finance ministers do, but in fact, we all depend on them. The loans were simply too expensive, some countries were physically unable to obtain loans. Of our neighbours, Latvia was the first such country, but before that, several non-euro-zone countries had entered the same situation. So the crisis that came into the euro zone was still a serious wake-up call. Any rumor that a loan will raise the standard of living is, in fact, already out of place in today's world. This mentality, as I said, has mostly already changed in Europe at political level or at least is changing in most countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U20	Thank you. The next question is from Mr. Jaak All.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U21	Mr Secretary of Finance. We have heard that you are planning a reduction in the tax burden to 31.3% by 2013. You will probably agree that with this tax burden, the state will not be able to sustain the public sector, law enforcement, defence forces, the medical and social spheres, education, culture and the External Action Service. In which spheres are further cuts planned, and what do you think should be done first of all to determine the public expenditure necessary for the survival of nationality and state, language and culture and, accordingly, to find the tax burden and the appropriate tax system?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U22	Thank you. When you noticed, I was talking more about lowering the tax burden than about lowering it. It is greatly reduced due to structural shifts and clearly also due to the recovery of second pillar payments. It's a statistical change, it's not a government initiative. In fact, the tax reductions that the government does are very moderate. For example, lowering the tax credit ceiling, which the opposition, such as the left-wing position, could warmly welcome, only concerns the most wealthy and most families not at all. This, in turn, increases the tax burden. These steps are varied. We are adjusting the tax system relatively little, but we are trying to remove the burden from the labour force. High labour taxation has been our problem, one of the drivers of unemployment, according to all peer reviews. As far as these major funding objectives are concerned, let us not overdramaticise. Estonia is the first in terms of both education and cultural funding, compared to GDP, one of the first countries in Europe, among the three or four in terms of education, the first in terms of culture in the OECD. So the solution is not that we keep increasing, we are increasingly satisfying the growing needs. I have said that the state will keep its operating costs stable or in minimal growth. It doesn't mean any dramatic problem. The understanding of how big our public sector, or, say, the state apparatus can expand, has been greatly adjusted. I myself have been a minister in the boom years, and I remember how simply new posts were created then and new structures were imagined. It seemed that we were a country with a growing population and an infinitely accelerating economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U23	Thank you. The next question is from Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U24	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! The question concerns local authorities. The state's budgetary strategy does not provide for changes in the financing of local governments, in other words, both the part of income tax and the fine-tuning fund are in place as they stand. At the same time, local authorities will lose the loan limit from 2012, which in other words means that local authorities are likely to finance the deficit by means of a loan. In a situation where the government deficit is part of the government deficit, would it not be more reasonable to restore the financing of local governments to some extent? This would increase the deficit in the state budget, but at the same time it would be reduced in local government budgets, i.e. the overall proposal would remain the same, given the particular situation that the state's borrowing rate is likely to be significantly lower than the local government's.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U25	Thank you. The loan limit for municipalities will not disappear, the loan limit will become more flexible and more precise, the debt will be taken into account and the deficit will continue to be taken into account. Check out the Local Government Financial Management Act, it's a pretty complicated set of rules, I can't quite report all of this to you right now. As regards the restoration of the local governments' income base, there are different graphs here, as the local governments' budgets grew faster at some point and did not cut back during the crisis. At the moment, the pendulum has moved a little, and it can indeed be said that the cuts have also reached the municipalities. But when it comes to restoring their revenue base, which we have also debated for a long time in our coalition agreement and where the details are still open, I am convinced that we are in favour of increasing the equalisation fund. Regional policy, which is about increasing the percentage of income tax, is clearly aimed at Tallinn, Viimsi, Harku and I do not think it makes any sense. I think they already live well above average and are somewhat overheated when you look at the infrastructure and all that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U26	Next question. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U27	Thank you. Let's talk about what's reasonable. I am certainly in agreement with the need to collect supplies in good times and to use them in bad times. We have now found that, in bad times, there were somewhat few stocks of unemployment insurance, for example, but we have nevertheless saved the government balance on the costs of the unemployed, in other words, we did not take any steps in the areas of social security, unemployment insurance and other spheres. How reasonable do you think it is to keep reserves on account of social security during difficult times?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U28	Thank you. Don't be so critical of your young colleague, he asked a reasonable question. But as far as reserves are concerned, the most sensitive are certainly these closed and socially targeted funds. For them, keeping reserves is the biggest problem. I think it's reasonable. In the case of unemployment insurance, it is clear that a mistake was made at the beginning of the crisis, when just then the deposit was drastically cut and then it had to be increased at the moment of the most difficult crisis. It was definitely the worst thing that could happen, but it had to happen, just there was no other way out. I agree, of course, that the basic budget should, in fact, be at least in a sustainable balance, i.e. without these funds. We have not achieved this so far, but for this we have a number of policies, including the freezing of state operating costs, and a constant search for efficiency. I was given some kind of threat of dismissal here today, but I didn't say that. I told you, we can't think like this, we have to force people to work. I was asked how you think about keeping people at work. But when these people were recruited and structures were created, it was 2008 where everyone was still euphoria. We are a country with a declining population and a country with revalued growth potential. Do not instill in yourself that everything that has been done in good times must be preserved forever. We have reached a stable, balanced, solid growth. At that time, the growth was largely at the expense of loan money and overoptimism.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U29	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Finance! In the competitiveness plan "Estonia 2020" approved by the government, as well as today's overview, there is no agricultural policy, there is no rural mathematics. I would very much like to hear your thoughts on the financial perspective concerning the CAP. Or have you forgotten the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U31	Thank you. I think it was a question of a competitiveness plan. Agriculture, as such, is not so high-profile in terms of competitiveness. This is something that is massively supported, supported by the rules negotiated in Europe. As far as has already been negotiated, the strategy papers also reflect this area. It would still be embarrassing to write something in your documents that has not been agreed upon. Our priorities, which we are talking about, are in the context of competitiveness. The competitiveness of agriculture is something where there are very strict policies at European level, not so national.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U32	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U33	Thank you. Good minister! I have some questions about the principles of the distribution of profits by state-owned companies. Is the current government's direction to maximise dividend income, as you said, is it expected to increase dividend income, or rather to favour investments in foreign countries, in the example of Eesti Energia in America or other countries, or is there some other way? Why am I asking that? The issue of electricity prices has risen very sharply in recent sittings. It is known that the electricity market will open in 2013, which according to various speculations will lead to an increase in the price of 30 to 50% of electricity, and this also means that in order to understand it, the economist does not need to be What increase in dividend income after the opening of the electricity market are you planning in your strategy? And if the increase in dividends really is quite high, is it therefore suddenly expected to be reduced, for example, by electricity excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U34	Thank you. I am not reminded that the amount of dividends does not exceed, I am forgiven for the highest peaks that I believe have been achieved in 2009 due to the high profits of last year, i.e. 2008. But the topic of Eesti Energia is a little longer. You kind of contrasted two ways. After all, external projects in themselves are also aimed at making profits, let us say that making profits, or maximising dividends, is unique. However, dividend income is not taken at the expense of investment projects, it is done on the basis of business and investment plans of state-owned companies, it is left with resources and, if there is anything left, it is taken. In the case of Eesti Energia, it is clear that they earn their profits mainly on the open market, and there is no reason to resent them or the state if this dividend is withdrawn. After all, the government also confirms the investment plan for Eesti Energia, which is, to my knowledge, in some way being corrected. In short, it's a longer question. If you want to clarify what you really wanted to ask me, I'll try to answer again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U35	Thank you. As we have less than four minutes left until the end of this round of questions and answers, the last question, Mr Tarmo Tamm, and a very short answer from the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U36	Dear Minister, You said in your speech that the revenue and expenditure of the state budget is balanced, which in itself is very good. But at the same time, I have read that the national reserves are decreasing. Where are these reserves to be used when the revenue and expenditure of the budget is in balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U37	Thank you. In my presentation, I touched on the subject. Reserves were in use in minus times, currently reserves are not shrinking. Some of them were shrinking when we were in a deep crisis, but we already achieved a tiny surplus last year. The collection must be viewed by municipalities, foundations, all social funds and all together. Reserves were almost twice as high as public loans at the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U38	Since the question and the answer were short, there are still a few minutes left. Mr. Neeme the Great, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Secretary of Finance. I would also like to ask about local governments. What about compensating local authorities for the reduction in land tax? The first issue related to the introduction of the euro. Some municipalities may have paid 1,000 euros, some may have paid 10,000 euros. The land tax notification will no longer be issued, if there were 50 kroons before, then now there is a difference between EUR 5 and EUR 5. The second thing is that, as stated in the government's action plan, the land tax on homeland will be abolished as of 1 January 2013 to reduce the tax burden on homeowners. Hence the question: what is the mechanism for compensating local authorities for the loss of tax revenue?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U40	Thank you. That's the right question. There is no yet one answer. I myself have fiercely defended the view that talk, as if it were enough to say in advance, is naive. In this sense, the coalition has also taken the view that it is really not enough to say, but to compensate or create a presumption of compensation is essential in order to introduce such an advantage. Municipalities should certainly not be deprived of land tax, which is in itself a stable and natural source of income. But there are many possibilities here. There is a way to differentiate it for the rest of the country. We're planning a regular land assessment. We have also been advised internationally that land tax should still be set on the basis of revenue, that 2001 prices are certainly inaccurate today. This is what we are working on, and I think the deadline for us to start giving answers is already this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U41	That concludes the round of questions to the Minister for Finance. Thank you very much, Mr Jürgen Ligi. I ask for the next presentation of the speech chair by Mr Märten Rossi, Deputy Governor of Eesti Pank!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U42	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In the course of my next speech, I will draw attention to four issues. Firstly, I would like to talk about the stability of the euro area, about the stability of money, about macroeconomic stability in Estonia, thirdly, about the European fiscal framework, and fourthly, very briefly, about financial stability. Starting with price stability in the euro area. The euro has been extremely important for Estonia for some time, but if in the past we were indirectly affected by the euro, and we could still bear the responsibility of monetary policy only for Estonia's monetary policy, then since joining the euro area, the euro and Estonia are the same thing. Although, in terms of economic paradigm, we did not have a change as big as in some countries, because we had a fixed exchange rate before, the common monetary policy and inflation developments in the euro area are still more important to us than before. So because, using the euro, we will inevitably think more about the value of the euro than before, and it will also affect our decisions, and because the earlier risks associated with the currency board and therefore with price stability are now behind us. I would like to stress here that the focus of Eesti Pank's activities has changed considerably when joining the euro area, not in the focus of tasks. As part of the system of central banks in the euro area, it is our responsibility to participate in the decision-making and implementation of the monetary policy of the Eurosystem in order to achieve the euro area's common monetary policy objectives. There is no comprehension in the conduct of the monetary policy of the euro area as to what our objective is. It's very clear, it's price stability. Price stability is defined as an increase of the harmonised consumer price index in the euro area of less than 2% but close to the medium-term horizon. It is not in the national interest of any Member State, including Estonia, for the Eurosystem, i.e. Eesti Pank, to deviate from this general objective. Our main national interest in the euro area is meeting this general headline target. The Governing Council of the European Central Bank has based its monetary policy decisions on this, and at its last meeting in April the monetary policy interest rate was increased by 0.25 percentage points due to the rise in inflation risks. I'd stop in a few words for these reasons. Both the world and the euro area economies have started to recover faster than expected from the crisis and are showing ever stronger health. Growth is slower than what was considered normal before the crisis, but much faster than forecast a year ago, for example. Of course, this recovery has not been uniform in all countries, and some countries' debt crisis actually threatens the continuation of economic recovery in the euro area as a whole. Nevertheless, the improvement in the global economy, together with many other reasons, has significantly increased the prices of several raw materials on world markets. This has also been the main factor affecting the latest price developments in the euro area, and in April the annual price increase was as high as 2.8%. Given the situation described above, there is a clear risk that price pressure will increase both in Europe and in the wider world after the crisis. It is very important that recent increases in inflation do not lead to large-scale inflationary pressures over the medium term. It is therefore the task of the Eurosystem central banks to be particularly vigilant at present in order to manage risks to price stability. In order to reduce these risks, the Council also raised interest. It is clear that the current very low interest rate level continues to provide sufficient support for recovery from the crisis. At the same time, it must be clearly acknowledged that the problem of nerves in some euro area countries is only so important to the decision to raise interest rates. If they affect the overall development of the euro area. In order to mitigate the risks to the functioning of monetary policy, a decision was taken some time ago to take non-standard measures that have helped to drive an effective monetary policy in the euro area in a situation where some markets are not working well. However, these steps are temporary in nature and do not prevent monetary policy from tightening up in order to control the risk of inflation. The situation of the Estonian economy is relatively balanced in this overall picture and it is much better than expected a year ago. Estonia's economic growth is recovering from the crisis primarily with export support. This confirms our earlier perceptions that the state of the Estonian economy depends, on the one hand, on how our foreign partners are doing and, of course, on how our companies can adapt to the demands of the world market. It has also helped to improve somewhat the labour market situation, where employment has started to grow, but there is still a long way to go, so that the situation can be quite satisfied. Accession to the euro area has had an overall expected impact on the economy. As expected, financing conditions have improved and Estonia is a more attractive investment place. However, it was not right to wait, and it has not happened that all the problems would be solved because of the euro, since then overnight. In addition to commodity prices, inflation has increased very rapidly in Estonia, which has been a cause for concern for some time. However, the biggest concern is not that this growth is faster than forecast or that it is now faster than the euro area average. The main risk is perhaps that as a result, the next steps could jeopardise competitiveness in the long term, and this indicator warns that the so-called easy time to maintain macro-stability, in which the aftermath of the crisis held back the economy, could come to an end faster than expected. On this front, we have been somewhat reassured by the fact that commodity price pressures have so far not been rapidly passed on to other prices or wages. It is important for the country to contribute to economic policy planning in order to ensure that this does not happen for domestic reasons. For foreign or trans-European reasons, it is, of course, essential to keep the monetary policy of the euro area firmly anchored. However, it is still important that national policies also support steps that remember these risks, namely the realisation of the risks that took place in this context in the previous cycle. The impact of the introduction of the euro on inflation in Estonia has been twofold in the short term. It is still too early to make a more detailed assessment, but it is obvious that, first of all, joining the euro has reduced long-term inflation risks in our economy, as there is no further concern about possible devaluations and so on. Perhaps it is too early to cheer, but the barometer figures for the early economy say, for example, that people's fear of inflation in the future is surprisingly low given the global price pressures. That's a good figure. Otherwise, it can be said that the introduction of the euro certainly played a role in the formation of some specific prices, particularly in the way in which these prices changed over time. However, it is clear that in the long term, the overall picture does not differ from what was in other parts of Europe. This means that the impact is small in the long term. However, it is true that strange movements can be detected in the prices of some goods and services, which cannot be explained either by the euro or by global factors. Therefore, we must continue to monitor the functioning of our market and whether there are distortions that need to be addressed by economic policy. In the case of the Estonian fiscal framework, it should be acknowledged that, despite the intermediate reservations, the government has taken the overall view after the elections that it must continue with the overall balance objectives set out in spring 2009. This is in line with sustainable finances. If you learn anything from the last decade, it is above all that a small and open economy like us must be even more conservative in good times. It's not exactly conservative, I don't mean to say that I was conservative in saying that. Rather, it is learning and balanced behaviour in the right time and in the right context. As I move on to the issues of the euro area fiscal policy framework, I would say that the very great integration of the euro area countries certainly justifies closer economic policy cooperation also in order for our monetary system to function effectively. However, in the last few years, one factor that has created uncertainty for the public in terms of achieving price stability has just been the mismatch between Member States' policies. This has not directly compromised the stability of our euro, but it has made the functioning of monetary policy more unclear and increased uncertainty in the markets. The reason is that, in difficult situations, fiscal policy has often remained apart from the short-term special interests of individual countries, for which, if we are now wise afterwards, it could be said that it was not in their interests either. This means that the economic coordination mechanism has not been effective, the Member States have not complied with either long-term strategic plans and targets or the rules on public finances, not all of them, of course, but very many, be they national or above the euro area and the European Union. Although the state of our current fiscal policy is commendable, we too have reason to look in the mirror and ask how important we are, for example, to the same state budget strategy for the years 2012 to 2015. It should also be noted that the effective functioning of the budget cooperation mechanism requires that our special interest and responsibility is not only to monitor our own actions, but also to monitor the development plans and targets of other euro area Member States and not only those of Greece or Portugal. This affects the overall functioning of the system, as well as us in this area. Against this background, it is logical and to be expected that the proposals to improve the framework for economic policy coordination at the level of the European Union institutions have now come to an end. After Mr Ligi's speech, I do not need to start describing it. However, from the perspective of the stability of money, there is a fear that this framework will not be completed. Indeed, while excessive imbalances have been jointly agreed on corrective measures as well as deadlines, pressure mechanisms to monitor and implement this plan remain too arbitrary. The new framework will provide for higher sanctions and fines than in the past, as well as more pressure mechanisms other than public finances, in the event of other macro imbalances. However, according to the current plans, the Council of Ministers has a relatively high degree of discretion regarding their implementation or non-implementation, e.g. by referring to exceptional factors. Learning from the above should increase the automation of the application of the rules in order to ensure the incentive effect and credibility of the macroeconomic surveillance procedure in the eyes of market participants. In order to ensure that the new framework for monitoring European economic policy coordination really works, euro area Member States need to adapt their national frameworks accordingly. For example, the Eurosystem has a strong belief that an independent, independent institution should also play a role in each euro area Member State's fiscal framework, planning, target setting. How to perform this function by using the existing Estonian institutions is probably also a point of view for the Riigikogu. Finally, at this stage, I want to prioritise the fourth issue, i.e. the post-crisis development work in the structure of the European financial sector. Here too, in some ways, the most important Estonian thing is a European thing. It is not that Estonia's things and foreign European things are important to us. The recent crisis confirmed that a combination of the budgetary crisis and the financial crisis is particularly dangerous for us and for the euro as a whole. As a result, the broader interaction between the financial sector and the general economy has been strengthened on the side of the surveillance of economic analysis. A new institution, the European Systemic Risk Board, which, among other things, must provide inputs and assessments of the coordination of economic policies in the euro area as described above for the surveillance system, has already started operating in this area at the beginning of the year. This is to be welcomed! Fortunately, the lessons of the financial crisis have also given rise to the fact that cross-border cooperation on supervision has taken a few steps forward across Europe. The capital buffers of banks have also become more important than in the past. Although this trend is global, it is a pleasure to note that the Baltic Sea region, including Estonia, is more prepared and, in fact, prepared to operate in this direction in recent years than in some other parts. At the same time, further steps need to be taken to ensure that such a coherent system really works effectively in Europe. There is no doubt that we and you have a role to play here. All in all, Estonia's finances have become a much stronger and more supportive framework when it joins the euro area. At the same time, it does not give us the opportunity to simply glide on the other side. In order for the Eurosystem to function effectively, all parts of the system, including all national central banks, must contribute to this. We also need to be aware that alongside the narrow domestic challenges, we are greatly affected, and perhaps also in the most important key, by the decisions and behaviour of other countries, which is why we have every right to expect the same approach from these countries and the duty to contribute to this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! There has been a lot of talk here about economic growth by making the economy more efficient, but the economy depends very much on resources. One of the main resources is the workforce. We have about 650000 labour force populations in Estonia. There are currently around 50000 registered unemployment, around 50000 unregistered unemployment and, based on studies, 120,000 people have worked abroad and 70,000 are planning to do so. Thus, about 30% of the labour force is, like, excluded from the labour market. Do monetary policy measures in any way support the preservation of our labour resources in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U44	Thank you very much for your question. My answer is very simple. The most effective and important element of monetary policy for the euro area as a whole and for the stability of our broad economic policy is certainly that people can move and still want to come back to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U45	Thank you. If Valdo Randpere still arrives, please be very brief!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U46	Good waitress! Please describe the situation in Latvia and Lithuania in a few words. I know that Eesti Pank is also following them. For Latvia, I know that they want to go to the euro, and I know nothing about Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U47	We have 15 seconds to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U48	I'm gonna stutter a little, and then I'm gonna tell you that time ran out. But, in fact, I would not like to comment much more than to say that the Minister of Finance has already pointed out how important it is for us that Latvia has been able to fulfil its commitments to international creditors and to implement and develop its programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs has launched a debate on public finance policy as a key national issue. The topics of discussion of important national issues initiated by committees in the Riigikogu have so far been foreign policy, health policy, business policy, reports on human development in Estonia and many other important topical issues. The debate on monetary policy at the spring session of the Riigikogu is the first time. Discussions on this issue have taken place at committee level and in other forms of work in this House and have been published during the state budget procedure in the autumn. The Commission considers it positive when such a debate becomes a tradition, so that in spring the budget documents will be discussed more widely and the budget will be processed in the autumn next year. The Government of the Republic must also submit the draft state budget for 2012 in accordance with the State Budget Act to the Riigikogu no later than three months before the end of the financial year, i.e. the last week of September. Almost in parallel, the Riigikogu processes the summary report of the state for the financial year 2010 together with the audit report of the National Audit Office, which the Government will submit to the Riigikogu for approval in accordance with the State Budget Act also in September. Monetary policy is a broad concept. Monetary policy is part of the country's economic policy, primarily through the state budget and aims to influence employment, consumption, saving, investment and economic development and environmental protection. The main instruments for implementing monetary policy are taxes, or tax policy, and the way in which money is spent. Taxation can contribute to the development of entrepreneurship and thus to employment, as well as to the increase in gross national product and the wealth of the population. The interest of the Finance Committee in previous years focused in particular on the overviews of the budgetary strategy and convergence programme. According to the State Budget Act, the budget strategy is drawn up as a basis for the draft state budget for the following financial year and the following three financial years. It shall be approved by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Finance no later than seven months before the beginning of the following financial year. The aim of preparing a national fiscal strategy is to ensure the sustainability of fiscal policy in the medium term and to make government action more effective in guiding national and sectoral developments. The budgetary strategy sets out the budgetary policy principles for the next four years, the priorities of the Government of the Republic, the analysis of the economic situation and the forecast of economic development, including revenue forecasts, and other important information concerning financial management. According to the European Union's rules of coordination of budgetary policies, Estonia has to submit a stability programme on the basis of its membership of the euro area earlier this was a convergence programme, and the government has just approved this stability programme. At the same time, three other government strategic documents have been drawn up and approved: the State Budget Strategy 2012 req.2015, the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic 2011 req.2015 and its Implementation Plan, the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic and the Competitiveness Plan "Estonia 2020." On the basis of the above, the Commission proposed to launch a debate on public finance policy. The reason why the debate was prepared within a relatively short period of time compared to the established practice is the Commission's desire to discuss the current issue in the Riigikogu in view of the time factor as much as possible. As a second aspect, the Commission considered it important to discuss the budgetary strategy of the state not only in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in ELAK, but also in the Riigikogu's plenary assembly, along with other issues concerning monetary policy. In this way, all members of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to ask their opinions and questions. The aim is also to bring this information and problem to the general public by means of a compact debate on important issues. In the Commission's view, it is very important to have a comprehensive picture of the current state of public finances and of the planned changes in this area. I would also give you a brief overview of the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in preparing this debate. At the meeting of the Commission on 18 April, the Ministry of Finance gave an overview of the size of the assets of the stabilisation reserve as of the first quarter of 2011, as well as information on the nature of the reserve and the placement of the assets. On 19 April, a day later, the Ministry of Finance presented the country's spring 2011 economic forecast to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Monetary Affairs prepared a debate on a key national issue in two sessions in particular. A preliminary proposal for a debate on public finances was made at the meeting on 21 April. On 2 May, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of Eesti Pank attended the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, giving an overview of the preparation of the budget strategy and stability programme and the economic development of Estonia and the euro area respectively. The Commission took note of the information and uses it as background information in the process of dealing with further drafts. From the presentation by the Ministry of Finance, the Commission considers the following sub-topics to be most important: the country's fiscal strategy, which aims at structural balance, the stability programme 2011, fiscal objectives, reserves, debt and fiscal policy. Price stability and economic activity in the euro area, the European fiscal position, inflation and external price pressures, exports, domestic demand, the number of people employed and the rise in the consumer price index affected food and fuel prices. The questions raised by the very broad spectrum of members of the Commission concerned the changes in the tax burden, the possible outcome of the assessment by the European Union, the integration of public reserves with the Treasury and the legal aspects of their use, the planned changes in pensions, unemployment insurance payments and mandatory pension fund payments during the 2013/2015 period, and the timing and flexibility of the collection of reserves. There was an interest in inflation risks and changes in the financing of local authorities, as well as in the impact of joining the euro area on inflation, employment data and factors for our competitiveness growth. The answers have already sounded here in previous reports. Finally. The OECD continues to highlight Estonia's strong fiscal position in its recent state review of Estonia. Estonia has never been in the process of excessive deficit in the European Union, and our debt is the lowest among OECD countries. The final statement of the International Monetary Fund delegation 'Estonia Article IV Consultation 2010' highlights Estonia's unshakable straightness in the area of fiscal policy and adds that Estonia faces three major challenges in the light of what has been achieved, which must be overcome in order to maintain growth. These include ensuring fiscal consolidation and introducing countercyclical fiscal policies, financing economic recovery and preserving the resilience of the financial sector, and full use of potential resources and restoring competitiveness. All today's presentations and the underlying materials have been prepared with a view to ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances and a balanced budget, taking into account all of the above. The Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Committee on European Union Affairs, as well as other sectoral committees, provide their input into public finance policy through the relevant drafts and positions. The debate on the subject will continue already during the autumn session in the course of the state budget procedure, once information has been received from the European Commission's assessment of our 2011 stability programme. I would like to repeat what I said at the beginning of my presentation: we think it would be positive if the tradition of such a debate were to become that the budgetary strategy would be analysed more widely in spring and the budget for next year would be discussed more specifically in autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U50	Thank you very much for the waitress. And now questions for the waitress. Question two, Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! The biggest opportunities for increasing state revenue are definitely exports. The numbers have shown that exports are increasing, but is this enough for our country? How do you feel as an entrepreneur and chairman of the Commission: has the country done enough to find new markets within the European Union, especially outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U52	Since this issue has now arisen, I would like to ask you about it. Estonia always stresses that Estonia should not do Greece. But then it should also be said that the triggers of the Greek financial crisis were largely conservatives. Maybe it really takes a fresh start to move on. Is our Committee on Monetary Affairs still monitoring what is happening in other euro countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U53	Thank you, that's a good question! The Finance Commission is monitoring it. And not only are we watching ourselves, but it also makes you all in this Chamber feel that those people, who are not in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, are watching what is happening in Europe. We'll give you two chances to do that. There's one possibility right here in the hall, and that's why we came here today. And there is another possibility: come, please, another time in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there we will have an ongoing debate. So welcome!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U54	Thank you. No more registered questions, thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations now. First, I would like to ask for Aivar Sõerdi, representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The economic situation in Estonia has improved considerably and the years of growth are coming. According to the economic forecast published in mid-April, the economy will grow at a normal pace throughout the period covered by the strategy papers that have just been endorsed by the government in 2012-2015. In terms of a number of indicators, the economic forecast is much more positive in terms of growth prospects this year than in terms of the forecast previously made for the same period. The recovery of the global economy has also proved more effective than expected, including in our main export markets. As a result, the expected growth of exports has been corrected upwards in the spring forecast and the employment growth outlook is also better. Of course, years of stable growth must be used to improve the state of public finances and to create such assumptions that in future we will be better able to withstand uncertainty about the development of the global economy. The last economic crisis showed very clearly how vulnerable the economy of a small and open country is to external influences. Thanks to this lesson, we were unfailingly aware that the crisis is being overcome by a strong fiscal position and by reserves gathered in good times. The institutions assessing the exit of the Estonian economy from the crisis have said that the reserves collected before the crisis have been our greatest strength. Conservative monetary policy must also continue in the nearest and distant future. Although the outlook for growth in the coming years is positive, the latest forecast shows that if the current policy is not to be changed and not to intervene, the state budget is structurally in surplus, but efforts are needed to achieve the nominal surplus. The Strategy Paper aims to achieve a nominal balance in 2013. I would like to stress that achieving a budgetary balance is not merely a goal in itself or a desire to show beautiful figures, but also has a great meaning in substance. From the start of the recovery of reserves, we can talk after the nominal balance has been restored. And, unfortunately, with current knowledge, the restoration of reserves or the beginning of the expansion of reserves will still remain at the end of the strategy period, i.e. the years 2014 to 2015. We know that if 2013 can achieve a nominal balance, then the cash flows that we need due to loans to central government institutions, as well as the contributions to the European Stability Mechanism, must also be covered at the expense of the central government's reserves. Unfortunately, the situation arises that the decline in the central government reserve is offset by the increase in social security reserves. In order to change this relationship, it is important that the restoration of central government reserves can start as soon as possible. As I said, the main budgetary policy objective is to achieve fiscal balance in the coming years and, in terms of restoring reserves at least to pre-crisis levels. The volume of our reserves was not excessive before the crisis and will not be too high in the future, compared to GDP of 12 to 13%. In fact, the volume of reserves, given the particular risks posed by the external environment, could be significantly higher. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U56	Would you like three more minutes? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U57	Compared to several European Union countries, our reserves made it easier for us to overcome the crisis. Overall, debt coverage will be considerably more costly and, as a rule, governments will have to increase the tax burden to repay loans and pay interest. On the one hand, I refer here to the data of the German Central Bank, and on the other hand, the euro area countries spend an average of 9 to 10% of their tax revenues on the payment of interest, even a quarter of their tax revenues in Greece. But this is the money that countries could use to implement their priority plans. It is also known that the share of fixed expenditure in our state budget is very high, i.e. free money for a number of measures, with little money for new initiatives. As government tax policy measures during the strategy period, it should be noted in particular that the tax system remains stable. At the same time, labour-related taxes, i.e. unemployment insurance contributions and the percentage of income tax from 2015 are expected to decrease, as well as the reform of fuel labelling. The following measures are planned for better organisation of the work of public authorities and cost savings: centralisation of support services, central public procurement, centralised real estate management. Perhaps these are real measures that help increase productivity in the public sector. In conclusion, the application of conservative budgetary principles has confirmed that these principles ensure macroeconomic stability and mitigate risks to balanced economic development. Stable economic growth will improve employment, provide a stable income base for the country and thus provide opportunities for economic prosperity for all its inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U58	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! Next, I would like to ask for a chair as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U59	Good manager! If I get carried away, I'll ask for more time. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have the best accounting abilities, so I'd like to talk about something else. When I had listened to the Minister's speech, I quite frankly had a question that was not appropriate to ask the Minister. Namely, I was thinking that listening to the presentation by the Minister of Finance of Estonian monetary policy, a person could ask: all right, fine, but what's in it for me? Perhaps this is a slightly simplified approach, but it is also a serious example of how to deal with your finances here. I dare remind you once again that the idea of an open economy chosen in Estonia a few decades ago is reasonable. In this sense, our government was right when, a few years ago, when the economy crashed, it did not feel guilty. I stress: I didn't see much guilt. And that's why the government is right now, even if it doesn't really know that it's making the economy rise. We are so dependent on what is happening outside Estonia, that really, our own government does not have much to do here. It can act a little more prudent when the economy is growing, and it can certainly act more prudent when there is a recession. For example, he would probably have been able to do something to prevent the real estate boom or, as the Minister rightly admitted here today, that if one year had the will and courage to avoid a mistake and to collect the assets of unemployment insurance for bad times, then the next year the courage did not continue and that the payment rate was reduced. Even at a time of recession, it would certainly have been possible to make different decisions, even in such a way that, in the context of our generally reprehensible monetary policy, financialists around the world would be amazed to hear that, for example, last year's budget remained balanced with so much unemployment because of the increase in reserves in unemployment insurance. It's economically illogical, it's stupid. And now for how we're gonna come out of this funeral. I really liked the questions that were asked here today. I'd like to try and put them together now. The question is the right one: you see, prices are rising. On the other hand, it must also be understood from the economic logic that productivity growth should be ahead of wage growth. At the same time, the question is always asked as to why you are demanding so much pay. But it's because the pay is so much that the prices are going up. It can't be any other way! Rather, it is in economic terms that we should ask why productivity is growing so little. If we are not going to ask this question, then the funeral was of no use. The rise in prices will result in an increase in wages, the pressure on wages must rise. You can't be any different under the conditions of free movement of labour, otherwise people just get out of here. The main issue for our economy is why productivity is growing so little. But productivity is increasing for us, friends, so little that we spend little to increase productivity. As a member of the European Union and now joining the euro area, we have probably already realised that there are certain criteria that our monetary policy must meet. As regards the fulfilment of these criteria, it became clear a few years ago that Estonia will have a window in Europe, which is a happy opportunity in monetary policy terms to join the euro, which will benefit the development of our economy. As of today, we would not join the euro. It was indicated that this window was open in one year, and we used it. Almost by consensus between the parties, I would say. When assessing the work of the previous Riigikogu, it must be acknowledged that this did not cause much opposition. The question now is how we will proceed with our new currency, the euro. It is certainly wise to also touch on a subject about which politicians in Estonia are upset about why we are not talking about it. I will say, then, from this point of view, that all the measures that are being taken in Europe to ensure the stability of the euro as money must certainly be supported. Estonia's participation in both temporary and longer-term stability mechanisms is definitely necessary and correct. But there are other Maastricht criteria. In this sense, we can be five men, we can be four men, we don't have to be 5+ men. What I want to say is that monetary policy is certainly one of the priorities for one country, but it is not the only priority. Surely the priority must also be that of the person who lives here and who listened to the Minister of Finance's speech and asked what he could benefit from it. Somehow, there is a widespread belief that monetary policy is right and in order only if taxes are as low as possible and there is no credit burden. This primitive principle is not applied in countries that meet the Maastricht criteria elsewhere. We are implementing and limiting our development. It is often more sustainable to finance an enterprise through loans. If Estonia had ever had the opportunity to issue bonds because we had our own kroon, then we did not take this risk, then the pension reform would have been much more successful in terms of sustainability. It would have been better to finance it with bonds. This would have saved politicians from the ugly decision to stop the pension reform. So let us be more open to these criteria. Let us understand that our Minister of Finance will be hoarded by our public and by the financial sector in the rest of the world, regardless of whether our loan burden is 6%, 8% or 12% of GDP. However, let us be concerned that more than one third of young people who have gone to study elsewhere do not want to return to Estonia. This is a much more serious problem than whether our loan burden is 8% or 12% of GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U60	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for the floor as a representative of the Jüri Ratas Central Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The crucial national issue of public finance policy that we are discussing today is a necessary and relevant issue. Appreciation for its initiators! Monetary policy should not really be discussed in this Chamber only in the autumn when a budget is put on our tables. Fiscal policy principles, discussions on them and the broadest possible common part are more important than the annual budget figures. The main positions and steps of monetary policy will in many ways determine the economic, social and environmental development of our country in the coming years. Let me start by saying that the Centre Party supports not only balanced budget policies but also the budgetary policies for which we have stood in the government. This is a surplus budget in which, at the end of each year of economic growth, we could increase the national reserve. This is what we stood for when we were in government and when pension reserves were increased by more than 5 billion kroons. Good listeners! Despite the positive expectations of economic growth, considerable uncertainty about the development of the world economy remains. In the European Union, the debt burden of Greece, Portugal and Ireland is causing serious problems. Estonia's economic growth was 3.1% in 2010, growth is projected to be 4% per year in 2011 and 2012. In this context, people have a legitimate expectation that the standard of living will rise. At the same time, we are experiencing a stormy rise in prices, which leads to an increase in the cost of living, so that the basket does not increase, but dries up. What have we been able to do here in the Riigikogu to keep the price increase within reasonable limits, not push it? As early as this year, we are facing an increase in electricity prices in the distribution network, which will give another boost to the increase in the price of all essential goods. Whether we are facing an increase in Elering's core network charges is not yet known today. A lot has been asked how to explain that Eesti Energia receives huge profits, develops activities abroad and at the same time significantly increases the price of electricity. This action is irrational! So where is the government's concern for people and the promise to cut home expenses? Today's debate on finance must also look at the possibilities for the state to hold back electricity prices, as much as the state can do, whether it is VAT specificities or excise duties. Unfortunately, we did not hear about this today in the statements by the representatives of the power coalition. However, in 2013, we will face opening up the electricity market, which will lead to even higher price increases, not only for large electricity consumers, but for all consumers. All goods and services are expensive. Hence my question to the government coalition: when and with what means are you trying to stop the rise in prices and, with it, the increase in the cost of living? It is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to achieve this by striving for growth alone and for the balance of the state budget. Honourable Riigikogu! Our finance minister, Jürgen Ligi, said in his interview yesterday that the state's budget strategy for the next four years does not foresee any wage increases in the public sector. Thus, teachers, police, rescue workers, doctors and nurses should not be expected to raise their wages until 2015. How do these workers and their families cope with rising prices? There is certainly a serious risk that the outflow of brains and specialists on this rather depressing announcement by the Minister of Finance will increase, and we in the Riigikogu will be dreaming of the talent coming home. It is interesting to note here that most of the people who have left Estonia find a new job in a country that is subject to progressive income tax, which our government coalition categorically refuses to discuss. In my opinion, it is the substantive issues such as tax reform, including the introduction of differences in VAT, for example, that should be the subject of today's debate. Many European countries have introduced lower VAT rates for essential consumer products. This would significantly improve the economic situation of people on low incomes. Good fellows! Of course, the country's main source of money is a diligent taxpayer. Unfortunately, at the same time, we have a problem with both the lack of skilled labour and unemployment, and this is a seriously dangerous trend. Addressing these issues must also give a strong foundation in the design of monetary policy. The simple finding is that the economy and finance go hand in hand. Unemployment, price increases, labour shortages, ambiguity of the income base have not left any impact on the administrative capacity of local authorities. Unfortunately, the government has overlooked many of the legitimate proposals made by the municipalities. The share of personal income tax in local budgets has not been raised back to the previously existing level of 11.93%, the amounts of the Equalisation Fund have not been increased and the financing of maintenance work on local roads has not been increased from fuel excise receipts. We therefore note that on quite a number of issues, the government ignores the proposals of the local governments and does not consider them to be equal partners. Public finance policy must not be limited to trying to balance the state budget, to keeping the tax system stable and to the expectations of economic growth. In our view, when making monetary policy decisions, the government needs to descend from the state budget level to the level of the local authorities and to the level of the population, in order to provide answers to the vital questions of the creation of new jobs, the suspension of price increases, whether at all and, if so, the suspension of people's emigration to seek employment, why tax distinctions cannot be introduced to prevent marginalisation and create new jobs. These issues need to be analysed and resolved not only from the government's perspective from the top down, but also from the eyes of the ordinary citizen and with expectation from the bottom up. Good fellows! Spring sowing time has arrived, and when autumn comes, we will also cut our fiscal crops. For our part, are we doing everything we can to obtain the best possible harvest in global volatile conditions? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U62	Thank you! I would now like to ask for a speech chair from the Group of the Margus Tsahkna, Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U63	Thank you. I'm gonna finish this round of questions and answers. Thank you very much, Mr. Märten Ross. Next, I would like to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U64	The assessment of the markets is that it is okay. I think it is certainly very important that these countries, as well as many other countries, continue this course. I have no doubt they will. I would also like to point out that, when you look at the plans for a budgetary strategy for Germany and Sweden, it does not stand out that they are satisfied and believe that fiscal consolidation should not continue to increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U65	Thank you. The next questioner is Raivo Järvi.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U66	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Kalle Laane is the first to register. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vice President! In your first point, you spoke about the stability of the euro area and emphasised price stability. I'm not much of a finance specialist, but we see, on a daily basis and in practice, that since the end of last year, prices have been increasing every day. Is that what we are trying to do to ensure that prices rise steadily, you insist on it, or is it something else that I see behind it? How should an Estonian person actually cope if his income does not grow? When raw material prices increase, when the economy is all growing, and we are talking about stability.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U68	Thank you very much. That's the right question. It should be stressed that, although the European economy has had a difficult period in retrospect and has in some respects been such a simplification factor, which says that we are firmly controlled by price increases in the euro area, we have been affected by the fact that the global economy has actually grown much faster than expected, and this has also affected commodity prices, food prices, energy prices. Central banks, including Eesti Pank as part of the Eurosystem, must be very clear in the view that, despite calls from the public and also from the markets, the increase in interest rates must bear in mind Portugal's problems or the fact that Europe has just come out of the crisis, the only monetary policy objective of the euro area is to support price stability in the euro area in the medium term, i.e. not to increase by more than 2% or close to it. I would like to say as much as I would like to point out to you that yes, technically we are talking about inflation should not exceed 2%. In ten years, this means that prices will actually rise by almost a fifth. But the reason why it's so defined requires a longer approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U69	Thank you. Next question. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! We know that our country's budgetary and financial policies over the last few years have been subject to a relatively good assessment. But now, if you look at Eesti Pank, what better could the government and Parliament have done to make the crisis hurt us less?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U71	Thank you very much for your question. If we try to put a three-hour theme in one minute, then as a matter of hindsight, the point is that we underestimated the global economic cycle's withdrawal from our balance, especially in the financial sector, and did not know how to leverage these risks to ourselves. This means that when we assessed the positions and prospects of the economy in 2005-2007, communicating them or taking them into account in policy making, what was there to deny, the extent to which the global economy, and thus our economy, was out of balance, was underestimated. In short, when we talked about the 2% surplus target, we should have talked about the 5% surplus target, why not also the 7% surplus. When we talked about raising the capital adequacy of the banks to 10%, and we increased the number of risk weights very early and proactively, demanded more to cover capital risks, we should have emphasised even more that this issue is not only our problem, but also cross-border, to support international cooperation with Nordic neighbours earlier than we did, although we took the very right direction and, in fact, before the rest of Europe. I have to admit, my limited analysis suggests that I don't really know how to offer new things, but many of the things we did could have done more.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U72	Thank you. Eiki Nestor, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U73	As we know, Sweden and Germany are probably best off from the economic downturn in the European Union. In both countries the tax burden is higher than in Estonia and the public debt is higher than in Estonia. Are the finances in order in these countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U74	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U75	Good Vice President! I ask for your assessment of how the government's plan to keep labour costs at the same level for another four years could affect the competitiveness of the public sector in the labour market, while the spring economic forecast foresees an annual increase of 3,5 to 5% in nominal wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U76	Thank you very much for the difficult question. I don't think I can answer that. The question itself is like simple. If we also increase productivity in the public sector, this does not mean that saving the amount of wages will limit the growth of individual individuals' wages. But this topic is so complex that it requires much more serious and certainly very professional analysis, which I think the Ministry of Finance and other ministries are doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U77	Thank you. Andres Anvelt, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I'll ask you my question the other way around. What are, in your view, really possible mechanisms of pressure that could affect those countries in the euro area that are unable to take the necessary internal policy measures? It is important that our taxpayers' money, which we are now paying for the stability fund, does not go to the wind.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U79	We also wonder if we could suggest anything better than what is now being proposed. However, specific financial penalty mechanisms, a specific cost to the State when it has to deposit some amounts without obtaining interest income. Something much smarter to offer here is complicated and, in some ways, it matters to the other side. Let us not forget that the other side of the mechanisms is direct pressure from partners, especially in a situation where the sanction mechanisms are not fully automatic. All the more important is the work of finance ministers and governments in monitoring each other and exerting effective pressure at the right moment. I would take this opportunity to say that, of course, the only leverage is not national. Basically, from the last decade, one should learn that the biggest mistake really was that the financial risks of some countries were misjudged in the markets themselves. In this sense, the situation is much better now. In itself, one country or another has to pay higher interest rates for its loans now, only to be welcomed, especially if it is fully consistent with the data and responds to a higher risk. In this sense, I will not be particularly concerned if this mechanism persists for the next 10 or 20 years. National pressures are likely to become more important once there is a hesitation that the market will again underestimate the risk associated with the solvency of individual Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U80	Thank you. There are less than two minutes left, so please ask a brief question and a brief answer! Neeme Big, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Vice President, We are all asking questions here that deserve a 'long seminar', as has just been mentioned, and I fear that my question will go into the same area. Maybe some markings. When the current Governor of Eesti Pank, as Chairman of the Monetary Commission, sent me to Brussels in this building, there was one of the monetary nobelists who said that if the euro wants to become such a currency as the US dollar, then it is necessary to create the instruments, which of course means bonds. It is now known that the plan to create euro-zone bonds has been rejected. My question is: under what conditions would such a thing happen and what is it now behind, is it a greater European consolidation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U82	Thank you very much. A very difficult question, especially if it is indirectly posed by a nobelist. My personal understanding of this is that there is not exactly such a set of rules in the monetary union that we go to the library, open up the rules and look at points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, which need to be done to make the monetary system work well in terms of monetary union. There are issues that can be solved in this way, there are issues that can be solved in a slightly different way. It is clear that there must be consistency between these things. If, or, more specifically, if, through legislation, you attach importance to the fact that we do not have a fiscal union in the euro area, which may be reasonable, which is not the only way to organise Europe, but which may be reasonable, then it is clear that much more must be emphasised by the party that is concerned with budgetary constraints, that no country alone will be hit or by the crisis. Which does not mean that if there really was a budgetary union in the European Union, individual Member States would be, like, at large and could do what they wanted. Then there will certainly be other mechanisms for organising restrictions. The point of my answer is that it has certainly been argued that monetary union will not work without it, but it is not quite so black and white. It is clear that if we take step A, we have to consider that B has to be stronger. But the question of whether a bond is needed may well remain the subject of the seminar.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U83	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The single currency is, of course, a step forward in the development of the common market in the European Union, but effective if it is supported by at least similar monetary policies in all the countries of the Union. You spoke briefly about pressure mechanisms, but could you point out what specific sanctions the European Central Bank is planning if countries still fail to ensure that these measures are implemented? After all, this is also our taxpayer's money now, and our country's security also depends on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U85	Thank you very much. I would make it very clear that this area is the competence of governments. The European System of Central Banks, including our national central bank, does not impose any sanctions or controls on budgetary policies. This is very clearly the responsibility and responsibility of the Eurogroup and the finance ministers of the euro area and other related bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U86	Thank you. The next questioner is in Taavi's garment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U87	Honourable waitress! Politicians need to take into account financial truths and common sense, but they are often tempted to give in to public pressure. We are now seeing very strong public pressure, which is clearly affecting wage growth beyond productivity. We see it in the private sector, but also in the public sector. This, of course, concerns Parliament in particular. These demands have already arrived, I dare say, at the level of the booming season. You are one of the few people in Estonia who can answer such complex questions very clearly. My request is: would you explain to a hall full of politicians what dangers exist when we give in to wage demands that exceed productivity growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U88	Very briefly, it can be said that, in the long term, this would mean weakening our competitiveness, particularly in the export sector, and then, of course, also the pressure on wages in these same companies. Of course, this does not give any additional prospect of development to any of the residents of Estonia in the distant future. That's where the connection comes from. However, jumping a little longer than the short answer, I would say that, as the past has shown us, it is naturally complicated to bring out a direct link, and in every moment of time it is difficult to analyse whether we are on the right track or not. I'm not saying there's a button somewhere that we know whether it's right or wrong. There are, of course, doubts and doubts, but, ultimately, conservativeness in society is certainly our common interest in this area as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U89	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U90	Good waitress! The Estonian economy is a typical exporting economy and last year's export growth figures probably exceeded even the best boom time figures, of course, in comparison to last year. Against this background, we know that our main export markets, Finland, Sweden and Germany, have pursued a quite reasonable monetary policy, but at the same time they have used incentives packages to stimulate domestic production (as if successful), which are now ending or ending. Will the disappearance of these national packages of support within the European Union have a drastic impact on the economies of these countries and, therefore, on the export capacity of Estonian companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U91	Reasonable support packages are those that remain within the fiscal policy framework. If we refer to some kind of special support package, for example, in Finland or Sweden, it must be stressed that they have not deviated from this general concept of the budgetary framework. In this sense, the answer could be stated: if, in our view, economic development in the future will contribute to the improvement of budgetary positions and therefore, of course, to the loss of such support packages, if that is the case, then there is certainly no threat to the European economy. On the contrary, it will be played by the other side that a strong fiscal position supports investment security, supports consumer confidence in the long term. And that means growing from itself, picking it up. In fact, however, Europe's economic growth is now relatively rapid, so it would not want to accelerate very much. But at least it supports the fact that the existing environment works and is favourable to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U92	Let us remember the most difficult times when we were beginning to face a crisis. One of the first things the state did was the creation of various support funds for exporting companies. I may be wrong right now, but I think it was a billion kroons, if not more. Export refunds were the first issue to which the country immediately began to pay attention. Other activities with which the country has maintained and supported exports were subsequently followed. I am sure that the country has done more or less everything in its power to support exports. The best proof is that we have actually arrived at a situation where the level of exports has already reached exactly the same level, which was before the crisis started, if not even slightly higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U93	Thank you. Question two, Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U94	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. I want to talk again about dividend policy. If the state takes dividends from Tallinn Harbour as a successful company, then there are no problems. But if the state takes dividends from Eesti Energia, there will be a problem. There is a problem for all citizens of the country, and there is also a problem for state companies that will weaken their competitiveness, as this is reflected in all prices. At the same time, Eesti Energia itself must start lending expensive money on the market. How wise is it to withdraw money from Eesti Energia and at the same time lend more money for it? Is this a wise and sustainable policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U95	First of all, in the case of all companies in which the State is owned, the "shareholder" rights are exercised by the Minister as the representative of the executive power. I'm sure it's best to ask the Minister. But if you want my opinion, I'll try to explain it. What really is the point of a loan? Very styrologically speaking, it is a shareholder who wants to get some steady rate of return, at least the same percentage as the loan. It is often said that equity is the most expensive capital for the company, as strange as it may seem. Return on equity requires certain indicators and a large number of businesses tend to raise foreign capital. It should, of course, be noted that the sole purpose of state-owned companies is not to generate profits. It is certainly one of their goals, but not the only one, is other goals. The aim of Eesti Energia has been, at least so far, to implement Estonia's energy policy in addition to making profit, to maintain stability. If we come back to your question, I don't see a problem when the state takes out a share of the capital. However, the State must monitor whether this decision is detrimental to the economic level of the company in such a way that it can no longer exist. If it's not a threat, I don't see the problem. The same is currently the case with national reserves and loans. In the next few years, the question is how we cover our costs: whether we take money out of reserves or take loans. We must be guided by what is right for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U96	Thank you. Question two, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U97	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Last week, misunderstandings between the Governors of Eesti Pank came out in the open, and the vice-presidents are likely to lose their post. However, my question does not concern their personal offices. What is happening there actually has a negative impact on the monetary policy of both Eesti Pank and the Estonian state. Has your committee discussed this issue, or what do you think of this question?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U98	In short, I can say that the Commission has not discussed this. I'm not telling you my personal opinion this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U99	Thank you. Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U100	In a way, the subject was already introduced. In your presentation, there was much talk about the credibility of Estonian monetary policy outside of Estonia. From the previous Minister's speech, it turned out that a fresh start was coming to Europe in the area of finance, and I welcome that as a socialist. The European Central Bank and Eesti Pank play a major role in this. Indeed, from your point of view, could what is happening at Eesti Pank now undermine the credibility of this much-hungryed Estonian monetary policy in the eyes of the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U101	Thank you, questioner! You asked the exact same question twice. I have just said that we have not discussed this issue in the Commission, so it is difficult for me to present the Commission's views to you at the moment. And since I am not a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, I do not know what makes any decisions there. So we have not discussed this in the Commission, and I am unfortunately indebted to you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U102	Thank you. Javier in clothing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U103	Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Is this new beginning that is being mentioned in European finances not such that it should not, in particular, overjoy the social democrats? After all, there is a clear move away from social democracy and perhaps from the mistakes of overspending. Am I right to say that this new start in the European Union's finances is contrary to the new beginning that the Social Democrats have proposed to Estonia as their trademark?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U104	Thank you, good questioner! I understand there's a little ball bouncing through me. But I'd be happy to answer as much as I can. Already one of the earlier issues of Mr Clothing was linked to productivity and wage increases. This made it very clear that the true story, we need to be guided in the near future by the fact that we will first look at our productivity and only then at wage increases. If you take a step back from it, it seems to me now that the new beginning that is in the European economy is perhaps not quite one of the things that the Social Democrats have seen. But I don't know, we'll see in the near future, perhaps there will be a fine cooperation, and we'll see a common beginning on both sides.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U105	Thank you. Kajar Lember, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to speak here after the speech by my colleague, Jüri Ratas. As a representative of the Coalition Party, I certainly cannot answer all these questions and I do not seek it, but I do not know whether to the dismay of the Centre Party or to the satisfaction of the Centre Party I will dwell a little on the other side, which is usually inherent in conservative monetary policy. During the last 20 years, the Estonian people have made serious efforts to build their nation state. As President Ilves has said, we are currently one of the most integrated countries in the Nordic countries, belonging to NATO, the European Union, the euro zone and other organisations that respect Western democracy. The aim of all of this is, above all, to ensure the international security of our nation state and our country. The Estonian people have indeed made a very serious effort. We can now say that no one doubts the existence of the Estonian state; we are a full member of the international community. Here comes both our rights and our obligations. I believe that, over the next four years, our aim is to make the country more caring for its people. This economic growth, which we have laid the foundations for, according to the latest data, is one of the fastest growing economies in Europe, must be implemented to achieve the livelihood of our own people, better education and thus greater competitiveness. Growth-based pensions, maternity pensions and free higher education are just a few examples of steps that convey the message of caring. Good public finances and a thriving economy are the basis on which we can build a country that cares about our people. The governance plan for the next four years is based precisely on the principles I mentioned above. Based on these, it is possible to give new breathing to the country that emerges from the economic crisis. The objective of sound fiscal and fiscal policies is to achieve a surplus by 2014. In order to promote entrepreneurship, we need to reduce the tax burden on labour costs in particular by reducing unemployment insurance and personal income tax rates and imposing social security charges on high-paid jobs. In order to reduce the pressure on families on price increases, we will lose the tax on the land we live in throughout Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen, Our mission is not just to live for four years. It is our duty to think in the long term about the future of the Estonian people as well as the shaping of the state's monetary, economic, social policy. At a time when European countries are struggling with debt traps, we must make wise decisions for the future. Therefore, the principle of a balanced budget policy needs to be laid down in the basic law on the state budget, and it must also be prepared for possible future difficulties and crises. In good times, the state needs to build up sufficient reserves to survive the poorer years of the economic cycle without borrowing. This is the usual peasant wisdom that has been common to the Estonian people throughout the ages. The purpose of the amendment of the basic law on the state budget is to establish the rule that the state must not spend more than it earns revenue. This means that the revenue and expenditure of the State must be at least in balance every normal year when the economy is growing, without loans. I would like to stress, in particular, that it is without loans. In times of recession, the state may spend more than it earns, but only at the expense of the accumulated reserves. In this case, the maximum budget deficit is set at 3% of GDP in the Maastricht criteria. In this case, the reserves spent to cover the budget deficit must be restored over the next six years. This could be the principle of amending this possible basic budget law, which we will be discussing. The new idea is to give the Riigikogu, in addition to the annual budget approval, a role in shaping the country's medium-term budgetary policy. The Riigikogu could set limits on government expenditure for the next four financial years, based on the economic situation. This means that the expenditure of the state budget is pre-set for a period of four years, in accordance with the cyclically adjusted forecast of revenue and expenditure in the state budget. Of course, the Riigikogu must be free in these decisions, as our task is to prepare the state budgets for the next few years. At the same time, it is advisable and reasonable for the Riigikogu to base its decisions on the assessments made by independent experts of the government and on forecasts of economic growth and budget revenue-costs. IRL is of the opinion that we must not, as a rule, borrow for running costs. In order to support the government's active lending, it has been argued that additional expenditure beyond government revenue and on the cost of loans, if made wisely, will bring back to the State sufficient tax revenue in the long term to pay back debts. However, practice has shown that the debt burden collected on the basis of various arguments has not been significantly reduced in any country. In essence, this has been a postponement of the increase in the tax burden on future generations. The repayment of a large debt burden also entails significant costs for the State and the state budget. For example, the maximum debt ratio of 60% of GDP as set out in the Maastricht criterion means that, in a situation where public expenditure is 40% of GDP, interest payments alone cost the same amount as all teachers' salaries or the Defence Forces. These examples may be sufficient to understand why countries are mostly unable to reduce their debt burden and why the debt burden cannot be increased indefinitely. The state may simply at some point lack the ability to service the loan, let alone repay it. The worst situation is that a loan is also required to pay interest payments. We are seeing quite graphically what is happening in other parts of Europe today. Estonia has also joined the Stabilisation Pact to help some European countries out of a difficult situation. We hope that these measures will be sufficient. On the basis of all of the above, the IRL wishes to set out the principle of budgetary balance in the basic law on the state budget. And precisely because we do not know exactly which government we may have in four years' time, ten years' time, twelve years' time. Dear Riigikogu! Balanced state budget, low loan burden and conservative monetary policy are not objectives in themselves. The aim is to turn the Estonian economy into a thriving growth and to implement it, through a caring and forward-looking policy, in the service of the well-being of its people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U107	Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Next, please speak to Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U108	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! Today, there has been a deep and long and widespread talk about Estonian monetary policy. I would like to talk about one of the effective instruments of Estonian monetary policy, about the serious institution Eesti Pank and what is happening there. Last week, we actually found out that the bank's managers had a fight and that as a result, the two Vice-Presidents had to resign. May I ask: the vice presidents are leaving, and so what? Time's up. Everything's normal. But, in fact, in everything that is happening, we, Parliament, have had a very large part. This started when the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank had to be replaced. There was a serious man found, but alas, this man didn't have the education that the law required. The Eesti Pank Act stated that the Chairman and President of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank must have a financial or economic education. The Riigikogu took and changed it in such a way that it does not have to be a specialist, helps if it is a good leader. And that's when Mr. Männik was put in charge. The man went and started working. In fact, there was a very good team at Eesti Pank, we saw how well all the currency exchange was organised, how smoothly we went to the euro. I do not know of any failure, either internationally or within Estonia, either from the organisational side or from the management side. In fact, they worked very well. But we put in place a person who, in fact, in academic terms knows nothing about banking, unfortunately. He won't know anything about it. He hasn't learned it. He just went and wanted to work, but the others didn't have time to teach him. There were conflicts, and as a result, the man who made it began to do something. And what did he do? He picked up and made a plan to let these young men go. Before, there was no special document about how the Vice-Presidents were elected. Arrangements were put in place, then a Commission was set up to see if everything in the bank was in order, whether the bank was working as it should. Scientists were also taken to help. But it shouldn't really be like this in a bank. I spoke here three years ago that the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank should actually be a banker. He should have studied finance, he should have studied economics. He may be a very good service manager, which I am sure Mr Männik was, but that is not enough. Unfortunately, the law of Eesti Pank, as a constitutional institution, did not state that it must be a specialist. At the same time, we don't put a non-lawary as Chancellor of Justice, do we? But that's where we put the other person who studied the area, and now I think we've done a good blah on the part of Eesti Pank. These men could actually have gone away nicely. They could have sent a medal or a thank-you note, accompanied by a drum roll. In fact, they did a very big job, not for five years, but for a long time. Who's to blame? It's us! We made such a stupid law, changed the law too soon. It shouldn't have been done this way at all. But what am I asking for with my speech? What do I suggest? First of all, I would like to suggest that when we make laws, we still need to anticipate further that similar situations do not arise. We must decide by conscience and not only see one person but also consider it more deeply and more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U109	Would you like three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U110	Yeah. We need to make our decisions responsibly so that there are no further examples. But I certainly recommend to Parliament that the Committee on Monetary Affairs should certainly deal with the founder of the constitutional institution, the main financial instrument. It's been a week, the Commission hasn't discussed it, the Chairman has no position, or if he does, he doesn't want to share it with us. I don't think that's right. Actually, it's not pretty, to put it mildly. This is definitely not about getting out of the way! It should be discussed and the Commission should consider what to do. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U111	Thank you. I'd like a speaker for the Tavi Clothe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U112	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I did not intend to speak here today in front of you on this subject, but I was moved to take the floor, firstly, by a specific question asked by Eiki Nestor, which would actually be polite to answer, and, secondly, by a false statement made by a good fellow official Jüri Ratas, which I certainly want to refute. First of all, Eiki Nestor asked a very unexpected question about an experienced politician. He asked what conservative fiscal policies and sound public finances meant for ordinary people. In my opinion, this issue has long since become clear to the Estonian public. If there is anyone else who hesitates, it is only enough to look at the Mediterranean and deny it, at times even closer to getting an idea of what the borrowed well-being, or alternative, can really mean to the finances that have been maintained in order. But it is also enough to think of our own Estonia to understand: public finances in good hands, also in heavy hands, and the rapid response to the crisis have actually helped to ensure that the Estonian economy has turned back to rapid growth as one of the first in Europe. If it is too difficult to draw a straight line to a normal person, we are talking about the fact that Estonia's unemployment has fallen as quickly as it grew, exceptionally and to some extent even contrary to economic theory. The link between fiscal policy, economic policy and human well-being is, I believe, understandable for everyone. We could give a number of other examples here, including the possibility of obtaining housing loans much more favourable than in many other European countries, etc., etc. However, we must not forget, of course, the very important aspect that, if we had a large debt burden, our children would have to pay off our expenses. I don't suppose any of us want to bequeath it to the future generation. Each of us, when borrowing as a private individual, must first and foremost make it clear to ourselves whether the loan payments are feasible for us, and only in the second order is it necessary to prove this to the bank. And just like that, in fact, all these Maastricht criteria, all the rules of common sense in the budget. These rules are needed primarily for us; the budget balance is needed for us here in Estonia and then for Brussels, Frankfurt and any other important city of the European Union. You shouldn't forget that. Second of all, the false claims. In fact, Jüri Ratas, a good fellow official, attributed Jürgen Ligi a claim that the Minister of Finance had said that the salaries of teachers, rescue workers and anyone else would not grow in the coming years. Jürgen Ligi never said anything like that. Check the verbatim! Jürgen Ligi spoke about an increase in the operating costs of the public sector, for which there are no options. It has not completely ruled out, even in the years of crisis, that we have even reduced public spending as a principle, not just curbed growth, as we are talking about. Nevertheless, for example, educational expenditure has increased from year to year, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of the budget. This has been a clear political choice. Keeping a State machine as a whole of a stable size does not mean that there is no possibility of additional resources in one area or another. I'll have two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U113	Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U114	There are undoubtedly ways to increase efficiency in the public sector. For example, the government has a very detailed plan to increase the efficiency of support services There are certainly more of these opportunities. But on this point, it should certainly be remembered that the shrinking population is not really capable of sustaining a constantly growing state apparatus. I believe you all agree with that. However, this, I would like to emphasise once again, does not mean that we cannot increase the salaries of teachers or rescue officers or anyone. These issues will be discussed in very detailed terms during the budget negotiations and these opportunities will need to be looked at very seriously. Yes, we do indeed admit that there is no more of these funds than the private sector is paying us in taxes. Public sector wages cannot grow faster than private sector wages, as this would mean taking money from something or someone again. But I stress once again that the claim that Jüri Ratas Jürgen attributed to Ligi is not correct either in terms of facts or in terms of assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U115	Thank you. Now please to the speaker's desk Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Taavi Rõivas' claim that it is ultimately cheaper for the public to keep a decent state of finance is quite correct. Estonian governments have bequeathed to the following governments, and hopefully to the next generations, a country which, according to its ratings, is very reliable in the eyes of both potential lenders and individual lenders, so we can do our day-to-day operations more cheaply. It is quite clear that this is a good thing. However, as far as concrete claims are concerned, we will indeed have a dilemma in the coming years. Ministers are already saying that, as the economy grows, wages will also increase, on the one hand, forecast growth will therefore be in all of our most important documents. On the other hand, it has been argued that the operating costs of the agencies cannot increase during the programming period or, let's say, during the budgetary strategy period. These arguments contradict each other as the operating costs include wages. Taavi Rõivas argued that, if you look at the public sector as a whole, the operating costs of the public sector as a whole must not increase, but may still grow in individual institutions. If in some areas we are able to be thrifty and change our structures, carry out structural reforms, some of the higher salaries can be paid in public authorities. That's absolutely right. In the near future, ministers could, in this sense, harmonise their language and wonder whether they are talking about not increasing operating costs for institutions in the near future or about not increasing operating costs for the public sector. When it comes to different institutions, there will certainly be a contradiction when the economy is growing and there are opportunities for wages to rise, but it will not be extended to any of our institutions. It can cause resentment. I fully agree: the general framework of the public sector limits the increase in operating costs for us, but we should not exclude some future operating costs, in the case of public authorities, including educational and cultural institutions. We ourselves have created a positive background for economic growth in the future. So words really need to be harmonised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-03_U117	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. I would like to thank all performers, questioners, respondents and listeners, both in this Chamber and everywhere else! I would like to thank Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Deputy Governor of Eesti Pank, Märten Ross, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the entire Committee on Monetary Affairs for the preparation and meaningful presentation of the debate. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth item has been dealt with, and today the plenary session is closed. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 12.39 p.m.
