ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good fellows! Good guests! Good morning. We will begin the session of the 8th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U2	Mr President! Yesterday, in the state budget debate right here in this Chamber, the proposal on the financing of orphanages and the purchase of replacement home services was rejected. It is known that the system of replacement home services is developing in Estonia, with 21 family houses being built. In this context, the amount spent on replacement home services is increasing. In itself, the construction of family houses is positive, but the fact that the state budget does not actually allow the houses to be built for the next financial year is regrettable. In this context, the group has a question to the Socialist Minister, Hanno Pevkur. It is precisely the provision of substitute home services and the financing of orphanages that are the subject of an inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests and shelters! I'm honored to present an inquiry and a bill. The inquiry is for the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, and it deals with one fact to which the Police and Border Guard Board has not responded. The Minister of the Interior has claimed that I do not have the facts, but that is one particular fact that we are asking about. Information has been published in the press that the accountant of the Saaremaa Educational Workers' Association has allegedly taken up the Union's money, but the police have reported that they do not start proceedings on the basis of rumours. Consequently, we have a number of questions for the Minister of the Interior. I also have a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. The draft concerns the abolition of police prefectures from 1 January 2012. The purpose of the draft law is to ensure that police prefectures are not lost as of 1 January 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U5	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's go to the messages. As the youth forum '101 children to Toompea' will be held tomorrow in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, I ask you to collect the papers from the tables and drawers. Now we're going to do a presence check. 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U6	We are going to address today's agenda items. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Plant Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendments to other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. I will put draft 105 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu, 1 against, no abstentions. Draft 105 Act amending the Law on Plant Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U7	Let us move to the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the European Agreement on Persons pending before the European Court of Human Rights initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was at first reading on 12 October. The first reading was completed. Two weeks were granted to propose amendments. The deadline for tabling amendments was s. 26 October 2010 at 6 a.m. No amendments were received. The Commission discussed the draft for the second time. a on 8 November 2005. After hearing the explanations and assessing the situation, the Commission decided unanimously to put the draft to the vote in the large Chamber on 17 November. The Commission also unanimously proposed the adoption of the draft act as a law, as it is dealing with a draft law concerning a foreign contract, which is subject to a special regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U9	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to draft 81 have been received. The lead committee wants us to carry out today's second reading of the draft 81 final votes. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I will put draft 81 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 85 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Draft Act 81 on the ratification of the European Agreement on persons pending before the European Court of Human Rights, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U10	We will move to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the university law, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U11	President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic proposes to amend the university law, the law of the University of Applied Sciences and other related laws. First of all, I will talk about what such a proposal is for. Estonian higher education has been organised on the basis of the principle of state-owned training, the existence of state-owned and non-state-owned students and a uniform bounty-based financing model, since the adoption of the basic texts of the current laws in the mid-1990s. As a result of the generalisation of the views of various international organisations and experts, as well as of several stakeholders interested in higher education, it can be concluded that there are inconsistencies in the current system with regard to fair access to higher education, the quality of higher education and the effectiveness of the higher education system. First, fair access to higher education. Currently, dual thresholds have been set for access to university studies in most higher education institutions. For state budget seats, the entrance threshold is higher, but who do not meet these requirements, the money can also go to university by exceeding the lower threshold. Moreover, when studying at a university, the status of a student does not depend on how he progresses at a university, but rather on the status in which he entered the university. Analysis of the composition of students shows that such a system favours students who have graduated from a metropolitan school and who are therefore in a more favourable position to enter the university free of charge. At the same time, the correlation with the socio-economic background of students is clearly such that students who come from families with lower socio-economic backgrounds study at paid or extra-public places of study. Together with international experts, we find that this situation is not fair and needs to be changed. Secondly, the quality of higher education. Bounty-based funding, directly linked to the fact that a student is studying at a university, has motivated universities to behave in such a way that students are kept at the university for as long as possible by registering tuition fees from them. Similarly, the state-ordered training institution leads to a situation where universities are interested, at all costs, in passing student studies to a diploma in order to meet the output requirements of the state-ordered training. Moreover, the funding of higher education institutions does not pay any attention to the quality of teaching in one institution or another. Figuratively speaking, the cost of public bread, regardless of the amount of chaff in the bread and the amount of fruit, has been fixed in the financing of university studies. This situation does not make sense. It is necessary to ensure that universities are motivated to improve quality by rewarding it with increased funding. Third, the efficiency of higher education. There are 70,000 students in Estonian higher education, which basically means that nearly four years of young people have registered to participate in university studies in full. There are higher education institutions where only half of the enrolled students pass more than 50% of the curriculum. There is only a quarter of those who complete their studies each semester. Motivation for effective and effective learning is weak. On the basis of the National Training Order Mechanism, there will be a deficit compared to the number of graduates foreseen in the National Training Order Agreement, which will grow from year to year. In financial terms, it will amount to EUR 100 million, and by the end of last year it already exceeded EEK 1.5 billion. This, too, is one of the reasons for the proposed legislative changes. What are the main proposals with which the Government of the Republic comes before the Riigikogu? Firstly, access to university studies must be based on uniform standards for all student candidates. Different thresholds for access to paid and free learning should be abolished. As a result, all students who study in Estonian higher education institutions have equal legal status and the conditions for their studies depend only on how their university studies progress. One of the objectives of the draft law is to ensure the possibility of tuition-free or free studies for all young people who exceed the university entrance threshold and are able to complete the semester's curriculum by one hundred percent. This right is guaranteed to students by the proposed legislative amendment. Such a change does not mean that everyone else should finance their studies in full. Universities have been given the right to levy partial tuition fees from those who do not complete the semester study programme. Universities, based on the principles of organisation of study activities at a relevant higher education institution, are justified to require partial reimbursement of study costs for students who fail to complete a hundred percent of the curriculum. The possibility of exemption from the tuition fee is also provided for students whose part-time studies or studies on the basis of non-national curricula are in the public interest and deserve full support from the public budget. Such exceptions are provided for by legislative amendments. Another important fundamental change in the organisation of higher education relates to the financing of higher education institutions. Figuratively speaking, the current principle of public training for university funding is no different from ordering road construction or any other contractual service for public funds. The agreement determines the number of graduates to be present for a certain period of time. A national single price is set for the training of these graduates. In principle, the law provides for the possibility that, if the university has not been able to prepare such a number of graduates, the funding of the university will be reduced by the missing amount in the future. As has already been said, it motivates universities to keep students at university as long as possible and to transport them to a diploma. Future university funding is no longer based on detailed public training orders of more than 500 target numbers in a particular case, but on broader performance contracts, where universities are assigned generic indicators of public interest, which should be tens of times lower than the existing public training order contracts. Public intervention in the autonomous teaching activities of universities is justified by this ideology only in cases where the disproportations arising from the joint activities of universities and students conflict with the public interest or where it is in the public interest that it is accelerated to develop individual fields of study or specializations, or in other cases where the market-based mechanism is not fully operational. Performance contracts can also identify indicators on the basis of which university funding takes place, with retroactive effect, on the basis of performance contracts concluded. More detailed principles on these financing mechanisms are envisaged in the Regulation issued by the Government of the Republic, one of which is annexed to the draft law, on the basis of amendments to the law. These two fundamental changes form the core of the university reform. In addition to these proposals, legislative changes have provided for some minor regulations. They tend to increase the effectiveness of studies and improve the quality of studies, motivating the various parties to greater academic demandingness and thus reducing overall learning time in our higher education institutions. Good listeners! I hope that the discussions in the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Education and Research as well as in the Committee on Culture and the debates held in the public have provided a sufficient basis for the effective processing of this draft in the Riigikogu. The views of the main stakeholders are clearly stated. I am pleased to note that, despite a number of amendments by both student associations and the Council of Rectors of Public Universities, there is fundamental support for reform for both central interest groups. I wish Parliament an effective debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U12	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U13	Thank you, good manager. You have said that this whole reform is made up of two parts: one part is about funding universities and the other part is about reform of education grants. You have also said that the rest will not be feasible without the reform of education grants. Unfortunately, we have not received the draft law on study grants so far, even though you have promised to present it since the summer. How can we discuss draft 89 here today when one constitutive part of the whole reform is missing?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U14	As has already been said, there is a draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws. It is true that the reform of higher education consists not only of reviewing the activities of higher education institutions, but also of reviewing the system of student grants. The need-based system of education grants needs to be introduced, and preparations for this have been made at the Ministry of Education and Research. At the same time, I am not, and it seems to me, that not only I, but also Parliament as a whole, think that the package bill method would be the best method for solving legal problems. The drafts are linked. The draft law on study grants also reaches Parliament. The proposed amendments are not intended to enter into force in full from 1 January 2012, but to enter into force gradually, as far as possible. When discussing the dates of entry into force, Parliament can also consider the requirements arising from the draft Education Allowances Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U15	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As soon as we are told about the need to make things more effective in this Chamber, it will soon end with redundancy. If you look at your ministry, you've been talking to make the school system effective, we need 54 instead of 220 upper secondary schools. Today we are also talking about greater efficiency as a result of this reform. If possible, talk about your vision, how many higher education institutions and several students should be in Estonia (at present you mentioned that we have 70,000 students) so that the university system is effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U17	First of all, a little bit of clarification. I understand that you are politically tempted to talk about my plan to keep 54 upper secondary schools in Estonia. I've been saying in this speech chair that the lower limit is 54. For the upper limit, I've said it shouldn't be more than 100 in my opinion. I'm gonna stick to that number here today. A more specific question concerned higher education institutions. 1.3 million people live in Estonia and this is unlikely to increase in the coming years. According to international experience, a reasonable number of universities are known. This number is certainly lower than the current number of higher education institutions over 20, but this is perhaps not a central issue. The central question is that we have 70,000 people as a student, but every year only 10,000 graduates receive a diploma, which makes the average study period seven years. The higher education programmes are known to be two, three, four, exceptionally six years long. This indicates that the efficiency of the system is not satisfactory. Shortening the period of study is also an important political objective in those countries where the average duration of study is half that of Estonia. I believe that we should aim to ensure at least the same number of graduates, but a significantly lower number of students, which is decreasing, above all, because the efficiency of university studies is increasing. As regards the remaining higher education institutions, I think that in five to ten years the number of higher education institutions will fall below 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U18	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U19	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In addition to the draft law amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws, we will also process the state budget of next year in the Riigikogu. Draft 89 should come into force as a law from September next year. To what extent is the funding of universities in line with this bill that we are dealing with today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U20	Universities or, more broadly, higher education institutions are one of the few public sectors where an increase in funding is foreseen for the coming financial year. Moreover, the Coalition Agreement also foresees an increase in funds in 2013, 2014 and 2015, which in current prices amounts to EUR 40 million. 40 million extra euros in higher education is a significant increase in funding. As has already been said, funding will also increase in the coming year, 2012. I believe that setting priorities that go hand in hand with the structural reform that you are discussing in the framework of draft 89 is reasonable and will certainly provide money for the successful implementation of this reform. I would like to add a note that I, too, do not consider this reform to be complete until the need-based study grant law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U21	Raivo Järvi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U22	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm trying to reason in rural languages. I understand that the threshold will be common to everyone. It's perfectly clear, we have to keep up. Suppose (this is just an example taken from the lamp) that a country needs a certain number of mountain engineers. The student gets into the university, but at some point, and it doesn't even depend on his "bright-headedness," he doesn't meet the norm. Either he will pay for his studies in the future or he will fail, or the state's need will not be met. Does this project foresee that, for example, a company engaged in oil shale mining has the right to pay tuition fees for it, perhaps knowing who it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U23	I'll start a little further. I think it's good to understand the meaning of the law. We do not consider it right that private funds should not be involved at all in the promotion of higher education, but the aim of the law, as has already been said, is to guarantee free learning for all those who cross the threshold and are able to study full-time. For those who want to study full-time but cannot do so for one reason or another, universities have the right to levy partial tuition fees. A reasonable arrangement would probably be such that this amount is proportionate to the volume of courses to be repeated. Where the student finds the money has been left completely free and it is not reasonable to impose any restrictions here either, in my opinion. If he or she enters into an agreement with a future employer that he or she will be employed in that undertaking, it is possible and reasonable that the future employer will also cover these costs on a contractual basis. Moreover, if the state sees that in some areas, be it energy or teacher preparation, it is appropriate for the state to compensate for these costs, then the executive power can compensate the universities by means of a performance contract. This opportunity is also open. Unlike the statutory guarantee for students who exceed the admission threshold and satisfy the 100% requirement for learning, this guarantee is not automatic and at the level of the law, but depends on decisions taken on the basis of the principles of executive power, university and future employer rationality. By creating such a flexible mechanism, I hope, we will not reduce the money from the private sector to higher education, but at the same time we will eliminate the possibility, in my opinion, of unfairness that the right to study at university can be bought with money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U24	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question is also about students. What about current students who have started studying for extra-government study places?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U26	The reform is designed to be implemented gradually. Young people are currently studying at a university, whether in a state-owned or non-state-owned study place, for at least three years within the framework of the current regulation. I believe that within three years a smooth transition will be possible, both in terms of organisation of studies and in terms of additional funding provided for in the state budget or in the coalition agreement. A single transition that would affect all students currently studying who have 70,000 would be too steep and therefore unwarranted. This would, in my opinion, lead to difficult-to-managed risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U27	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U28	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If there is no national training order, the state does not dictate the opening and maintenance of curricula for higher education institutions and you deny admission based on thresholds, what, in your opinion, guarantees that all capable and motivated young people will be able to study in a freely chosen profession, which is also declared to be one of the aims of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U29	The reform does not foresee that the state cannot interfere with the number of students and graduates accepted, as well as the number of existing curricula. This option has been left, but there is no existing obligation to do so through individual curricula or groups of curricula. Intervention through performance contracts is only foreseen in cases where there is a legitimate public interest, where the level of disaggregations in higher education is so high that they require intervention by the executive power through the performance contract mechanism. Indeed, the Ministry of Education and Research intends to increase admissions to universities. The ideology of the whole reform is more supportive of the students' own preferences when they enter the university. This principle is the intention to abide by. The arguments I have encountered both in the press and in the current discussions on higher education reform indicate that the state will not, as if, have money to finance the learning of all those who are capable of doing so. Of course, it can be argued that some disciplines are able to learn from anyone who can cross the university threshold on two legs and whose mouth comes from warm air, as my academic colleague Volli Kalm loved to say. I hope that universities will still have the academic sense of responsibility to make reasonable demands for entering all disciplines, as well as for graduating so that we will never again need to read about students who are confused in a regrettable way by Martin Luther and Martin Luther King, but whose senior academic colleagues, or faculty, nevertheless hold the university diploma.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U30	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U31	Thank you. The first reading is currently underway, but you and all interested people may have noticed that the press has been trying for a long time to create an idea, as the Reform Party, which takes this draft and the future of Estonian higher education very seriously, would like to sink this bill and the renewal of the entire education system, about as the chairman of your party has allegedly never let down Estonian agriculture. I don't know why they're spreading this idea, whether it's some kind of lame intrigue or just stupidity. It doesn't matter either. I don't believe for a moment that you share such a stupid idea, but from earlier experience, I know that many page readers in many target groups are willing to believe everything that the paper writes and worse. That is why I ask you, as Minister, to confirm that you do not suspect any faceless motives for anyone's efforts to develop and deepen the ideas of this draft in the interests of our young people who want to learn.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U32	Thank you. Moreover, I think that the debate on the draft law will allow the adoption of this law not only with coalition but also with the support of the opposition, not with loud support, but at least with academically responsible consent. Of course, our approach to higher education and some of its underlying principles has been different throughout history and these differences, on a world-view basis, have not disappeared. However, I personally have no doubt for a moment that the draft submitted by the government to the Riigikogu in agreement could not find the support of both coalition parties. I believe that this draft can be dealt with at a reasonable pace on the basis of the principle that, if all the facts are clear, it is time to decide. Deferral does nothing to improve, but only increases uncertainty.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U33	Andrus Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U34	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The draft stipulates that the student completes a study programme of at least 30 ECTS volumes during the semester. However, there are cases where several universities have not themselves been able to guarantee this in certain disciplines. There are certainly a number of objective and subjective reasons for this. Is and where is this compromise place when the student is ready to meet the requirement, but the university is unable to provide this service? There are minor exceptions in the draft, but I ask who will be agreed between the student and the university, or the university will have to agree with the ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U35	A situation where the university is unable to create study conditions for students to complete the full curriculum is unacceptable. In such cases, consideration should be given to withdrawing the corresponding teaching rights from the university. Universities are designed to create learning conditions for students that correspond to the curricula adopted by the university itself. As far as full - time learning is concerned, many people regrettably have come up with the idea that it is beyond comprehension. Many people believe that if the prescribed curriculum is completed by 75%, it will be equivalent to fulfilling it by 100%. Regrettably, the current law also provides such an interpretation. Good people! If you enter into a contract of employment, committing to work 40 hours a week, but then you go to the employer and say that the unfortunate fact that you worked only 30 hours this week should in no way be a reason for your dismissal, then you can imagine what the employer will say about it. Moreover, most of the people in this hall have received their higher education diploma so that they completed the entire curriculum in each semester or at least eliminated individual debts quickly at the beginning of the next semester. Students studying in course-based studies, at least at the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu, are able to study three times more effectively than many students in social sciences. However, there are still additional opportunities in the organisation of studies to increase the effectiveness of students' studies. As regards the provision of guarantees so that individual unlearned subjects are not subject to partial tuition fees in such a way that it becomes economically excessive, here I trust university councils, where there is also student representation and who, at least so far, have taken quite reasonable and supportive decisions for students. I have no reason to believe that due to a legislative amendment they would somehow become repressive and irrational about the legitimate problems of students.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U36	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U37	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. Sometimes they say the devil is in the details. A large number of the issues that are the subject of the dispute relate precisely to one, another or third small point, which should eventually be resolved in the regulations. For example, students ask how they can find out if they are going to consider a reasonable proposal that credits should be counted not every semester, but so-called cumulative, so that by the end of the third semester there should be 90 points received and, in the meantime, there could be work, for example, etc. It's probably a matter of regulations. But where's the answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U38	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U39	The proposal to take credit points into account cumulatively has repeatedly sounded. I think this proposal makes sense. If the Committee on Culture supports this proposal, we will certainly come to an agreement at law level, too, and uncertainty among students will not have to last until the government regulation has been issued.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U40	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! During the preparation of this draft, you have certainly met with the heads of all universities. I'm asking about state colleges. Have the rectors of all national higher education institutions agreed consensually to this draft and, if not, where are the main concerns or contradictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U41	State institutions of higher education as public institutions also have a slightly different status under this law than public universities, not to mention private universities. As far as I am aware, higher education institutions with the status of national higher education institutions have not formulated a common consensus position. Different institutions of higher education have slightly different views, including slightly different proposals. I hope that they can still be taken into account, if necessary, in the Committee on Culture. It seems to me that they agree, in an important part, with the overall focus of the reform. If I am wrong here, I am sorry that the information has not reached me with sufficient clarity. However, as has already been said, the legal status of universities of applied sciences acting as public authorities managed by a government body varies from that of public universities under the current law to that of the future law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U42	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! This bill has been discussed quite widely in the public domain and has received a thorough response. I have the impression that not all the debaters are quite clear about the content of this draft and the proposed changes. Could you give a little description of what will happen in higher education if the changes foreseen in the draft are not adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U44	I briefly described the reasons why amendments to the law are justified, more than why I do not think it would be reasonable to delay them. I believe that if the legislator has wished to reduce the funding of higher education institutions to the extent of an outstanding public training order, then the executive must do so. True, the reasons why the mechanism for public training contract has not worked as it should are different. Part of the responsibility for this will certainly remain outside the universities. However, in this case, the funding of universities must be reduced by going ahead under the current law, and I do not consider it to be a reasonable approach in the long term. The second problem, which I pointed out and which has also been repeatedly raised in different contexts, is the quality of education. It is very difficult to imagine someone fighting to improve the quality of the substance when funding mechanisms are working in the opposite direction. Better education is more expensive, better education needs to be paid more. There is no mechanism at present, and many universities have knowingly gone down the road of making ever lower demands on their faculty, as in this case it is possible to pay them lower wages and thus save the costs of the institution. The funding of universities must be dependent on the academic quality achieved. Only in this way can we hope to solve the quality problem. This problem is rightly addressed to most higher education institutions, in fact it would be fair to say that all Estonian higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U45	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U46	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I see from the bill that you are planning September 1st, 2012 at the time of the entry into force of the legislative amendments. At the same time, a very large part of the draft law should come into force shortly after the new financial year, 1 January 2013. Is this linked to the fact that reform needs more funding and these budgetary resources are not planned for the coming year's budget? If my assumption is true, what amount should we talk about in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U47	Partially yes, although the main reason is that contracts with universities are concluded on a financial year-by-year basis, while students tend to study at the beginning of the new academic year. Thus, the various entry into force triggers relate in particular to the differences in the organisation of its budget and the organisation of its studies. As regards the allocation of additional funding to universities, as has already been said, additional funding should increase to EUR 40 million by 2015, more or less linearly. So in 2013, this money will amount to around EUR 10 million. These funds, as has already been said, are also planned in the budgetary perspective under the coalition agreement and will not be held behind it. It is fair to claim that needs-based funding for study grants has not been agreed on an equivalent level within the coalition. This is the problem we are dealing with. Let us hope that this problem will also be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U48	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U49	Thank you. Dear Minister, The opponents of this draft consider that it is impossible for a student to work in part and in a flexible way while studying at a free study place. They argue that it will then become impossible to acquire a close professional experience. However, when I have spoken to my colleagues in this Chamber, it turns out that a very large part of them were also able to work part-time in full learning to gain experience. What is your assessment of whether today's students have really become less capable, as the opponents now claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U50	Opponents have also accused this law of wanting to prohibit students from working. Such an interpretation can only be considered malicious. It is true that during the preparation of the draft, there has been a serious debate on the substance of the situation that a person is studying 40 hours a week and also working 40 hours a week, leading to a total load of 80 hours. This is probably only possible for a few particularly capable people, certainly not possible on a massive scale. As far as student employment is concerned, I believe that students have worked alongside their studies throughout the ages. In this saalisk, most people with higher education know what it looked like to have been worked on holidays, weekends, or even constantly, more or less professionally. I think there is no limit in the draft law to part-time work alongside full-time studies. Young people were able to do so 50 years ago, 30 years ago and 5 years ago, and they will be able to do so even after the adoption of this law. So, power to work! But it is my wish that they do not neglect their studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U51	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As I understand it, if the bill enters into force as a law, students who choose to study in Estonian will be able to study free of charge. I believe that international curricula are important so that universities can continue to be active in internationalisation. To what extent can universities provide foreign language education through state operating grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U53	I will begin by explaining this principle why free studies at law level are guaranteed only for national-language or Estonian-language curricula. This is primarily reflected in the spirit of our constitution and the idea that foreign language studies may be available, but Estonian-language studies for higher education should be available on the territory of the Republic of Estonia for all people who express such a desire. Full financing of studies in foreign languages from the taxpayer's pocket may not be feasible or feasible in all cases. But I stress once again that part or all of the funding of foreign language curricula from the University's operating grant is also consistent with the meaning, spirit and word of this law. Moreover, in many cases, it is reasonable to provide in the performance agreements those curricula where, in the case of 100% education, the guarantee of free learning extends to foreign language learning, whether due to the economic or socio-economic interests of Estonia. In addition, universities, regardless of the content of the performance agreement, have been given the right to exempt part of the students from the payment of part of the tuition fees in the same way on the basis of foreign language curricula, etc. I believe that such constructive cooperation between the state, or the Ministry of Education and Research, universities, employers and students, will create flexible opportunities for all special cases which would be cumbersome and impractical to deal with precisely in law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U54	Reet Roos, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U55	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. Let me ask you a little bit more generally, so that the opponents are also understood. In the University of Tartu, which is the flagship of our universities, the number of so-called soft disciplines has gradually increased over the longer term. How does this draft and reform regulate this trend according to the needs of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U56	We have developed and sent draft performance contracts to universities for inspection and opinion, though in quite abstract terms. From these performance contract projects, it is quite clear what measures the government or the Ministry of Education and Research has planned to reflect public interests in relation to university studies. Let me give you some examples. Obviously, we all agree that the flagship of our technical education, Tallinn University of Technology, could focus primarily on the promotion of technical and natural sciences. Therefore, I consider it reasonable and appropriate that the performance contracts provide the Tallinn University of Technology with general admission figures, for example 3,000 students for the first level of study, adding that of these, I should be forgiven for a slightly voluntaristic number calling at least 50% must study in the field of natural sciences and engineering. Another example. The undisputed strength of Tallinn University in historical terms is teacher training. It seems reasonable to foresee in the performance agreements that they will continue to devote themselves to the preparation of teachers, to a reasonable extent. Perhaps in many cases it is also reasonable to set a cap, for example by saying in the Treaty that more than a thousand students should not study in the field of social sciences and humanities. Similarly, together with universities, we have discussed a restriction that would reduce academically unjustified curriculum growth. Performance agreements could, for example, set the upper limit on the number of curricula or provide that the number of curricula will be reduced by three each year for the next three years. Such different qualitative and quantitative criteria, in my opinion, allow universities to be managed in a flexible way, but at the same time without excessive bureaucracy, in the public interest. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again: it is certainly not reasonable to consider such fears as those expressed, for example, in relation to legal studies, where the volume of public training orders currently available across the country is almost ten times lower than the number of students in all studies. Given the strong and legitimate desire of students to acquire a legal profession, universities will probably need to review their admission rules and significantly increase their admission to law and some other social sciences on the basis of performance contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U57	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I and my colleagues in the Committee on Culture have the same impression that, in principle, the heads of higher education institutions and universities are not opposed to this reform. However, they also raised questions, suggestions and opinions, but the current pace of the draft debate does not allow them to be taken into account. How do you assess whether their proposals and perceptions are not, say, at the level of the law, and these problems could be solved outside this law, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U59	First, a more general remark. Quite clearly, a situation should not be allowed where sensible, worth considering, and why not proposals worth legitimising will not be taken into account for the sole reason that somebody has set a certain pace somewhere. This situation, I think, should not be allowed by Parliament, and it seems to me that there is no need for it either. I believe that the time allowed between first and second readings is sufficient both to make proposals and to consider them. I would point out that the draft law has been prepared much longer than the draft state budget law for next year. With the draft law on the state budget, we have already reached a second reading, but with the bill handed over in mid-September 89 we have reached the first reading, which is why I do not think there has been any hassle with this draft. In the future, there is no justification for rushing. It seems to me that today the main proposals are already quite crystallised and ready to vote on them in the Committee on Culture and in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I believe that, within a reasonable period of time, all reasonable proposals can be considered and decided whether to adopt them or reject them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U60	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Listening to your report, I have a question like this. You spoke in your presentation that, as the funding of universities now depends on so-called tax places, universities are interested in carrying students up to the end, as long as the money is available. You further mentioned that if the university fails to meet the norm of the so-called professionals to be issued, the funding will be reduced. Doesn't that mean that under any circumstances the university will try to transport students who don't know the difference between two Luthers to the end of their studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U62	I have referred to the possibility that, if the amendment is rejected or delayed, the Ministry of Education and Research will be obliged to consider funding in accordance with the legislator's will if the contract for a public training order has not been met. As I have already emphasised, I do not fully agree that such fiscal sanctions will be effective in the long term. However, as has already been said, the current law provides for such a mechanism for the executive. I very much hope that this amendment will find support and will be enforced in such a way that the financial sanctions resulting from the current law can not be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U63	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U64	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I wonder what happens to open universities and students studying in distance learning according to the new draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U65	The concept of an open university, as well as the concept of distance learning, is common terms or, let's say, terms put into circulation without a legal basis for various forms of study. However, there is currently a situation where "open university" or even evening study is adopted on the basis of significantly reduced academic criteria. I consider such an approach to be incorrect and unreasonable. University studies must be subject to the requirements of university studies and must not depend on the form of study. In the same way, the conditions for graduation must not depend on the form of study. Regardless of how the diploma is achieved, the level of knowledge and skills represented by the diploma must be the same. The legislative amendment further emphasises that all students are equal, regardless of the form of study they study in. The requirements for them must be equal. As far as university studies are concerned, in addition to attending university studies with student status, the possibility of studying by individual subjects in the field of external status has historically developed. The status of an external student means that the student is not covered by the rights and obligations attached to the status of a student, but by those rights and obligations are defined in an external agreement which functions as a service offer agreement. This form of learning is a flexible way of lifelong learning, unlike studies in student status, where it is assumed that, in addition to the rights attached to student status, the student is obliged to study at least half of the nominal load.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U66	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. To get 30 credits per semester, or to complete the curriculum 100%, only 25% of students are currently able to complete the curriculum. At the same time, 56% of students are employed because of the lack of an effective system of study grants. As a result, there are so few people who can complete 100% of the curriculum. You, on the other hand, foresee that the curriculum should be completed 100% without changing the education allowance system or creating a functioning system. This would mean that if 50% of students are currently studying at free study places, there will probably be even less after your reform, i.e. there will not be more free study places, but will be lost. My proposal, however, is that please take your time, take a calm look at this reform and bring it back to Parliament with a functioning system of education grants. Then we can discuss this seriously. At the moment, this is a very incomplete solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U68	The draft law, the accompanying materials and the related debate have been quite comprehensive. True, this may not be fully understandable for everyone, as it makes rather high demands for an understanding of the university's operating mechanisms. Speaking about students' full-time and non-full-time studies, depending on how the studies are organised, already now, 100% of students can meet either 25% or 70% of the curriculum requirements. Strengthening the motivation for full-time learning will also significantly increase the number of students who complete the study programme 100%. The idea that students work solely to erase hunger and pay bills is superficial. The reasons why students work or, in many cases, people who work at a university with student status are other than material difficulties. Although material coping is a problem that needs to be addressed and, as has already been said, the Ministry of Education and Research and the government are dealing with it. I do not believe that it is justified to postpone the procedure for the draft solely because it seems difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U69	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! In your presentation or presentation, you argued that a fundamental agreement had been reached with the stakeholders. I dare argue with you. I have met both student representatives and very many rectors. They all support reforms in higher education and say that the initiative you have taken is very necessary, but they do not support these solutions in the form you have brought them into this Chamber. The Council of Rectors has proposed to work together on this draft. A large number of students share the same view. Please, let's take some time off, let's not be hasty! I hope that haste is not due to the coming of the Grand Assembly of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. We will continue to work on this draft, especially given that you yourself said that the reform is not complete unless there is a needs-based system of study grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U71	I also believe that this bill needs to be further worked on, otherwise it will not be possible to adopt it at all. As far as I know, there will be a second reading in the Riigikogu after the first reading, and in the meantime the Committee on Culture will work. I'm sure you can't quit. I hope that the opposition will also make appropriate proposals by listening to the various interest groups. It is justified to continue working on this draft in this way. As far as party political lines are concerned, the political culture of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union does not require any political reasons for any arbitrary draft. Let this be the responsibility of your own party's political thinking. I hope that the support expressed in writing in the statement of the Council of Rectors and the Student Association is something that can be relied on. Of course, these proposals must also be taken into account during the procedure, just as all Members' proposals must be taken into account. It should not take so long to write down one proposal that the draft should be withdrawn so that opposition politicians can gather their thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U72	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U73	Thank you. Good minister! I come to the essence of the result agreement. In my opinion, it makes sense for the performance agreement to be based on general indicators in the future. At the same time, on the contrary, the Council of Rectors considers that rather than naming performance areas, specific tasks should be included in the agreement. I would like to ask how the content of this result agreement is to have as little voluntarism as possible. We also think that there are some curricula or areas in the interest of the state where part of the tuition fee can also be cancelled. The question is, in cooperation with which parties and how exactly is this social agreement to be concluded with one university or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U74	I'll answer in two parts. Firstly, if the law specifically regulates the performance contract as an instrument, even more so, how far the regulations on the content of this performance agreement should go. I have also studied higher education laws in other countries. It is good practice for the legislator to lay down the general principles underlying the agreements on which they should be formulated. Next, the subject of negotiations between the executive authority and specific higher education institutions is how these principles lead to a performance agreement and what is specifically reflected in it. We have seen in many areas, including higher education, that when very formalised indicators are introduced, people become alienated from substantive activities and begin to pursue compliance with these indicators. As educated people, university staff are quite capable of fulfilling these requirements formally. However, it is not always certain whether these formal ticks actually reflect the public interest and the necessary content behind the points that have been filled. This is the point of weighing. We have knowingly been general in our efforts to maintain the fundamental principles of the performance agreement in the law, to introduce more specific rules and criteria into the regulation of the Government of the Republic, and to make an agreement between the Ministry and universities a matter. Moreover, unlike the current situation, where the Minister, if you could say so, is solely signing the State Training Order Agreement, the instrument of performance agreements provides for the discussion of these agreements in the Government of the Republic. This allows the public interests of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Culture or any other sector to be reflected on a much wider scale than the Minister of Education and Research has so far been able to do as a member of the government. I hope that a broader debate in the government will result in better and more adequate public interest being reflected in this performance agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U75	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U76	Thank you. Dear Minister, Stricter requirements for studying at a free study place will be based on this plan immediately, but on needs-based study grants, using your words, according to the possibilities available. There's a risk that these things, according to the possibilities, will linger, as usual. There's never gonna be a chance. Do you not see the danger here that, under the resounding sign of free transfer to higher education, we will be switching to either full or predominantly paid higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U77	I don't see a reason for such fear anywhere. As additional budgetary resources are available for funding higher education, the fear that learning will be much more expensive is unwarranted. But I share your wish for a need-based system of study grants to be introduced along with the 100% requirement for completion of the curriculum. As for the fact that things are going to linger, there's some kind of probability here, but I think that if there's good will, these problems can be solved. The Ministry of Education and Science has that will. An additional EUR 8 million, estimated to be needed to launch this system, is not an amount that could not be found within the area of government of the Ministry of Education and Research and, as a result of economic growth and inflation contributing nominally to it, from the state budget. So let us not draw ghosts about what can happen, but let us look together for solutions. As has already been said, both the basic principles of this reform and the need-based support system are more or less in place, but improvements and improvements can certainly be made during the procedure for the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U78	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U79	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! What will be the amount of study grants after the reform of the system of grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U80	Perhaps this is an opportunity to talk a little bit more about what the student social support system is now looking like and what should change here. What do we have now? Currently, all students are entitled to income support as residents of the Republic of Estonia. It does not depend on the status of the student, it is currently the case and it must remain that way. In addition, we have results-based scholarships that are distributed to approximately every sixth student. Students are also entitled to take student loans that are publicly guaranteed. Obviously, the proposed amendment retains income support; it also retains performance grants, although probably in a reduced amount but in an increased amount. In the future, performance grants should be intended primarily for those who demonstrate outstanding results, and the size of these grants should be much higher than at present. There would be an additional need-based learning allowance that would depend on household income and is expected to be distributed to up to 20% of students from households with income below a certain level, estimated below the minimum wage per household member. In addition, targeted scholarships should be added to students who are motivated by scholarships to study in disciplines that are less popular, such as teaching disciplines, but why not also include, for example, IT specialties or any other specialty where the public interest is greater than the interest of students. This would generally look like a system of study grants and scholarships in the new situation. The sum of this amount should double the taxpayer's resources allocated to the student's livelihood and their costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U81	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! In your report, you mentioned that the entrance threshold should be equal for everyone. Does this mean that all students entering university after this law enters into force will study in free positions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U83	The university will no longer have free or paid places. There's gonna be students at the university. Students have the right to determine the volume of their studies themselves. If they choose full-scale learning, as most students have so far traditionally done, when they start studying, taking part in teaching and fulfilling all curriculum requirements 100%, then they are all free students. You can ideally imagine a situation where no student in any public educational establishment pays either full or partial tuition fees. The real life will probably be different from that. There are students who, either because they work full - time from the start, or for some other personal reason, do not want to study full - time. In such a case, they will be able to participate in university studies as a student when they pay part of the tuition paid by the university. In addition, there are students who, for various reasons, are unable to meet 100% of the curriculum requirements. They have the right to require a partial tuition fee, the amount of which, according to current understanding, will be correlated with the number of courses they will have to complete further. Therefore, the real cost of this additional study is also important for determining these costs. How big is this liver going to be? It is quite certainly larger for those who have a larger volume of unfinished studies and smaller for those who have a smaller one. How big it's gonna be, it's gonna be a lot of specialty. At least this is the position of universities, and so is my personal experience from the university. It depends on different circumstances. But certainly this regulation will not result in a situation where most students should pay tuition fees. This is not the goal of higher education reform, on the contrary, most students who are able and willing to do so can study at university for free.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U84	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I read the press release of the Estonian Student Union on the National Broadcasting Portal, where they report that they do not support the draft higher education reform in the first reading of the Riigikogu today, in its current form, as the Union considers that there are serious gaps in this. They write that a reference to admission based on thresholds should be included in the draft, the principles of funding higher education institutions and the basis for calculating operating grants should be clearly defined. They also consider that the requirement of 30 credits should be waived and that students should retain the right to study even during academic leave. Would it not be reasonable to agree and agree with the students and the ECL before bringing the draft to Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U86	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U87	The idea that a full consensus will be reached in some areas of public life is, in my opinion, naive. It is quite clear that students have some, higher education institutions have others and lecturers have third interests, different interest groups in society once again have their own interests. Parliament is the place where these interests are considered and a reasonable balance is found. I have understandable student proposals, which I have heard several times during the debate on the draft. Of course, they are based on the interests of students, which can perfectly be summarised by the sentence'more rights and fewer obligations'. Universities, faculty and other interest groups also take exactly the same view. As has been said, Parliament is a place where decisions must be taken to support and which proposals must not be supported. I wish Parliament the wisdom and success of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U88	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with part of Priit Toobal's question. According to my information, neither the student body nor the rectors support this reform in its current form, although you claimed that both of you would do so. You have just said that you have been asked to soften 100% of the requirement to complete the curriculum and to give you the opportunity to collect credits during academic leave. I do not believe that students here simply rely on 'egoistic' wishes that they have more rights, but less obligations. I think there is also a pretty serious concern about what higher education is going to look like in our country. You've been completely inflexible at all these points. I do not believe that the reason for this is that the Minister of Education is heartless and malicious, for example, towards a young mother who wants to collect a few credits during her academic leave. Am I very wrong to say that the reason for this is that the Minister of Finance has given you a certain amount of money and that it would confuse the entire funding scheme with the stakeholders, which is not so much academic criteria as financial considerations in the preparation of the reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U89	I don't agree with you. Let's take an academic vacation. What's an academic vacation? Academic leave is granted to students on different grounds not to participate in studies on the basis of their own application. Academic leave is currently taken for various reasons, as has already been said, but the main reason is the elimination of academic debts. However, academic leave is not intended to eliminate academic debts. Academic leave is intended to relieve the student of his or her obligations to the university. But as always in life, when obligations fall away, rights fall away. A balanced treatment of rights and obligations is the reason why I continue to believe that participation in university studies during academic leave is not justified. I am not saying that a student cannot learn, on the contrary, it would be very welcome. A student could study when he or she participates in teaching, when he or she is on academic leave, and could continue to study in lifelong learning even when he or she has graduated from the university. The question is whether he has the right to participate in university studies. As has already been said, the right to participate must be balanced with the obligation to do something. As regards the proposal for an exception for parents on parental leave, I believe that this proposal deserves to be considered. If such a proposal is made, I am ready to support it as Minister for Education and Science.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U90	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Great things are happening in the great world. In the big world, a steam engine is invented, but in parallel, there is a small world where at the same time a bunny-eared balloon is invented. The big world thinks it's a sensation when Berlusconi resigns, in a small world, it's a sensation when Justin Bieber's girlfriend has a baby from someone else. The big world is writing a big, fancy law, but the small world is planting a small section that says that the semester is half the academic year. I don't think a person who hasn't studied a semester in college would ever read such a large and voluminous document. What are some reasons for putting such abstinences into the law amending the university law? Who doesn't know what a semester is, you can look at it from the encyclopedia, it's defined in the same way everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U92	That's what life is like. I am also not a proponent of these legal definitions, which, in the preamble to the law or elsewhere, say what a semester is, what a year is, etc. I, too, feel that this creates a certain strangeness, but there are people, especially among lawyers, who believe that such legal definitions make the application of the law more understandable and legal and are good and useful for a variety of reasons. So let's somehow try to accept this term definition in this law, or if it's really too much, get it out of here. It doesn't make me unhappy.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U93	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U94	Minister, thank you very much. The Council of Rectors of Public Universities has formally proposed to you to set up a working group with the task of drawing up, on the basis of a clear concept, the basic documents for the reform of higher education by 1 March 2012. Please tell me why you do not want to take this proposal into account and you are also saying here today that this draft is so mature that we can start taking decisions by voting in the Committee on Culture and in the large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U95	It is reasonable to set up such a committee, and I think that it will also be set up. Only that, both in the proposal of the rectors and in the discussions we have held so far, both in the Committee on Culture and in the meetings of the rectors, the work of such a committee has not been regarded as the subject of the text of the law, but as the content of government regulations and other declining legislation. To this end, such a Commission will certainly be set up, and it will also be able to do its job in due course. However, the prerequisite for this is that you adopt in good time the basic principles that should be laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U96	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is very gratifying that there will be a debate in society and in Parliament on higher education, funding for student studies and student income support. However, it seems to me that today's draft law, without the draft law on student benefits, is a reminder of the behaviour that could be said to have been done-considered, not intended-made. As an example, I would point out that as a government draft law 89 s. On 12 September 2011, the draft explanatory memorandum, entitled 'The effects of the Act', stated: 'Parallelly this draft will develop a new concept of study grants and scholarships, the completion of which is scheduled for 20 August 2011. ' At least the date could have been fixed. But here's the question. You claimed that students can apply for income support. Do you have any information on how many students receive income support? According to the Social Welfare Act, a student receives income support only if he or she is an independent household.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U98	This particular question is a bit unexpected. I don't have that kind of data on hand. But the student has the right to receive income support according to the law. I don't think anyone broke that law against students.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U99	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U100	Thank you. Good minister! You have today confirmed that without the education allowance system, the draft under discussion is as incomplete as you have said, and you also said that the need-based system will be implemented when it is possible. We have also seen the need-based implementation of electoral promises in this Chamber. For example, the exemption from the tax on homeland was legalised, but so far there is not really any idea where to take money to cover it. The real existence of amounts in the budget has not been a problem for the coalition so far, but suddenly, as is the case with education grants. I specifically ask: when could the new draft law on student benefits actually be completed and where would it be taken today to take the certainty that a new need-based system of education grants will be in place at the time of the entry into force of the bill 89?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U101	I've figured things out this way, it's possible what's possible, and what's impossible, that's impossible. So to say that the law can only be passed if it is possible, it's tautology. As regards the Need-Based Study Grants Act, as I have promised the Committee on Culture, this draft will certainly be available to them between the first and second readings in the version. In this sense, a draft 89 can at least be dealt with knowing what the need-based study grant law is designed to do. As has already been said, there is quite a lot of time until 1 September 2012, not for a whole year, but for more than 10 months. That's why I wouldn't panic too much. If we really can't make it, then there's a place to decide again. So all things are connected, but I think the work needs to be done as much as possible. Our classics say if you can't get the whole thing, make half. We will do the other half later, and as we go on like this, I think we will be much further in a year's time than when we are constantly complaining that one thing cannot be done because there is no other thing, and the other thing cannot be done because there is no third one, and the third cannot be done because there is no administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U102	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U103	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Can you repeat how long the average study time of one student is now? If, as a result of this reform, it is possible that this time will be shortened, has the state calculated that if, for example, it shortens by one year, how much additional financial resources will the state generate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U104	This is a very rude piece of work, and you can also check this coarse piece of work in this hall. If we have 70,000 students and receive a little more than 10,000 of them each year, this shows that it takes seven years of study to obtain one diploma in the middle. If the study period could be reduced by one year, it would mean that we would have 60000 students, and even if there was no extra money, 14% more money could be spent on each student, 14% more salaries for each faculty, 14% more teaching resources, etc. By shortening this period by two years, the funds would be 30% more. We're not talking about small savings. We are talking about savings that amount to tens of millions of euros, and which are achieved solely by making a more intensive commitment to studies. This is not savings in the sense that money will be spared, but savings in the sense that the learning conditions of students committed to studies will indeed be significantly improved. These savings are significant. This is one of the objectives of this reform: to improve the learning conditions of students and the working and salary conditions of those teachers who will work in this reformed and more effective system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U105	Ene Ergma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U106	Thank you very much. Good minister! Do you share my conviction that studies in academic institutions require certain prerequisites for future students? I'm talking about ability or even talent. If we look at these specializations, where a lot of students are currently studying in places outside the state budget, such as the Faculty of Law, etc., we can see that there are the best admissions to state budget positions on a threshold basis, and then the bar falls very strongly. Doesn't it seem to you that such a membership of students leads the faculty to have to significantly lower the level of study?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U107	That is true, there is no doubt about that. Whoever has talked to the students (in particular, I refer to the Faculty of Law at the University of Tartu), they know that almost all those students who study in state budget places, who are indeed cream of the cream, as the English says, are mostly young people with over 95-ball national exams, who are studying with a much less academically capable and capable colleagues, complain that the average level is not what they expected when they entered the university. This is certainly one reason, and I think it is a very serious reason for establishing common standards, regardless of the grounds on which a person has entered university or whether he intends to study full-time or part-time. Young people sitting in one auditorium should have the same academic abilities in order to increase the effectiveness and quality of their studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U108	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You're talking about necessity here. I find it a little unclear how this necessity will be determined. Let me give you an example. Let's say a 45-year-old person who doesn't work goes to college. Will he and his parents be counted for one family, one household when he lives with them, and will he be deprived of all scholarships offered by the university?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U110	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U111	As has already been said, the Need-Based Study Allowance Act has not reached Parliament. Therefore, I cannot speak about the word of this law, but rather about the idea or concept of this bill. This concept has been distributed to all stakeholders. If, according to memory, I am trying to reproduce it, it states the principle that a household is the basis for calculating the need-based provision of study grants. A person belongs to his or her parents' household until he or she reaches the age of 26 or until he or she is married or until he or she has a child. In such a case, it shall constitute a separate household. On the basis of these principles, a 45-year-old person, regardless of his or her family status, does not belong to his or her parents' household.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U112	Thank you. Dear Minister, From your speech today, I realized that the possibility of studying at an open university would disappear and that it would be replaced by an external agreement. Currently, the curricula of certain specializations are available only at an open university, so they are subject to a fee. Do I get it right that the draft states that the open university system will disappear and that it will no longer be possible to study in any other way than as an external student on the basis of these curricula, and that since it will no longer be possible to have student status on the basis of an external agreement, this status will be withdrawn from thousands of current students who have chosen these programmes for an open university when studying for a Master's degree. So, is the current open university Master's degree programmes disappearing or allowing these specializations to be studied only on the basis of an external contract, and what about those students who are currently in Bachelor's degree and have planned to study these specializations?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U113	The university has a basic study document for the curriculum. The curriculum provides for study requirements, including nominal study time and other relevant circumstances. The proposed reform will introduce admission requirements for students based on this curriculum to study at a university. If the student fulfils these admission requirements, he/she will be able to study under this curriculum as a student and will be able to study at full-time if he/she wishes. In such a case, it can do so free of charge; the university does not have the right to claim full or partial reimbursement of study costs. This does not mean that a student cannot study part-time according to this curriculum. But in order to be a student and exercise all the rights that the status of a student entails, he must learn at least 50% of the burden. If he or she does not wish to study at a 50% load, he or she will be able to study as an external student by concluding a corresponding contract with the university in accordance with this curriculum. In this sense, there are indeed two different statuses for university studies. One of them is studying as a student. I would stress that in this case, this person will enjoy all the rights of the student: the right to take student loans, health insurance and many of the other public goods that this status entails. If at least half of the students are not involved in the studies, it is not justified to grant these privileges to students who study only a few subjects. This would be disproportionate to those who participate in studies at least 50%, not to mention those who take part in the 100% burden. As far as all young people currently studying at university are concerned, they need to learn whether they want to continue as students or whether they do not want to do so. If they continue as students, you have to decide whether to study full-time or part-time. These decisions depend on their future status and their rights and obligations to both the university and the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U114	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U115	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is a pity that you do not understand that we here in the Riigikogu cannot discuss incomplete solutions. If you were us, not the minister, you'd probably be talking about the same thing. Half-solutions should not be brought to the Riigikogu for discussion, all the more so as it is as important as the reform of higher education. You also acknowledge that this reform will only work well once the education support system has been developed. Today you are telling us that, if you will, please discuss this reform, I will bring this draft system of education grants later. Why don't you bring them together, so it's not a half-solution, it's a whole one? You say we don't understand. It seems to me that the rectors of universities do not understand either, because they are asking for this amendment to be postponed to 1 March. So let's go over the whole solution again, and then we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U116	The proposed bill 89 deals in full with amendments to the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws. I do not consider it appropriate to submit a draft package. Therefore, the Need-Based Study Benefits Act is presented separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U117	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, People are known to have different desires and opportunities. My question concerns part of lifelong learning in the higher education landscape. If a person wants to learn at the same level of education for the second time, what are the regulations in the draft or implementing provisions now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U119	For the second time in higher education, there is a regulation which does not provide for it in a free form. During the preparation of the draft law, the relaxation of this requirement has been considered. I am not convinced that this is feasible. This is certainly an issue that could be discussed in the Committee on Culture. The reason is simply that the legal regulation of this restriction will, in my opinion, become extremely cumbersome and difficult to implement. Maybe it's reasonable to take that limit down. Well, I guess that adds to some injustice, but maybe it's not so big that you shouldn't consider it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U120	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I fully agree that more intensive use of time during university studies and efficiency requirements in teaching students are very good principles. But identifying these academically truly capable young people after high school is quite a tricky art. Is it conceivable that I apologize if it has already been mentioned that it will be changed to university admission procedures? Is it conceivable that they will return, for example, the entrance exams that used to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U122	The current procedure leaves it up to the university to determine the conditions for admission to university. The university has to do it itself. Many universities gave up their entrance exams because they found that the entrance exams organised by the university did not differ significantly from the state exams and the organisation of the exams twice was not justified. At the same time, many disciplines still have their entrance exams. The draft law provides for only one fundamental change in connection with the admission. At present, the university is accepted on the basis of different thresholds, if you could say so. You get to college for free when you meet some conditions, but if you come with money, you can buy in with lower demands. The draft says that universities themselves impose their own admission requirements, but they must be the same, equal, objective and transparent for everyone to know in advance. In this sense, 'double standards' disappear, one standard remains, but we continue to trust universities in establishing these rules. It is quite clear that access to the university will depend on the university. Some universities have higher requirements and some universities have lower standards. I'm sure I'd like to make sure there's no way for physicists to have this bar here, for chemists here, for lawyers here, for doctors here. I myself very much believe that these requirements could also be comparable in terms of speciality. If they are different in different universities, it is a normal result of academic competition, but within the university in different disciplines it would not be wise to create such conditions that some are 'hard' and others are 'light' specialties. Academic demandingness should be linked to the university's trademark. These requirements should be aligned over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U123	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U124	Thank you. I'm trying to ask a lifelong question. Suppose the bill is passed as a law at this rate, as is currently foreseen, perhaps before Christmas. We know that the state budget for next year will be in the final stages. We currently do not know exactly when the draft law on study grants will arrive at our tables and what the result agreement will take shape. Two big interest groups, universities and students, are a little excited about what's about to happen. On the basis of the current assumptions, can you describe what will happen during the autumn of 2012 and the autumn of 2013? What changes are expected next September and September of the following year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U125	I will continue to believe that, if there is good will, this bill, along with the necessary improvements, can be adopted as a law. Of course, it would be nice to do this before Christmas, but neither the higher education nor the Riigikogu will fall apart if it is done in January or if the time comes simply as we move forward at a reasonable pace of procedure. I dare say that the choices that need to be made are known. There are no 50 choices, there are tens of them. You must have heard them in the press and read them. Students have formulated their five proposals; universities have also formulated about five proposals; the Riigikogu maybe there will be a number more. The Riigikogu could cope with these ten fundamental decisions, say, at most within a few months of the procedure. What will happen on 1 September 2012? I would be very pleased if I could tell the students as soon as possible that free learning is available to everyone from 1 September 2012. I'd love to. It is true that universities have a legitimate claim that if they already do not know exactly what will happen on 1 September 2012, it will be difficult for students to prepare for state examinations, etc. To a certain extent, this concern is justified, but as a very practical person, albeit with some embarrassment, I dare to tell you that the contracts for public training orders for students who started their studies in 2011 - 1 September this year - were not concluded in October of last year, but only in October of this year. All students were already admitted when the contracts were signed. Universities have not collapsed, students have not lost their education or otherwise unhappy. So let's just say that good will and meaningful cooperation can solve problems that, formally and on paper, seem impossible. But once again: let us not worry so much about what exactly happens on 1 September 2012, but let us try to agree on what would make sense, and then we will agree when it would make sense. If you come to the adoption of the law and still complain to me that you have not seen the need-based draft law on subsidies, then I am indeed forced to apologise. But I believe you will have the text by then. So an idea of what form and at what rate needs-based support could be realised, you will.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U126	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You rightly said from the Chair that improving the quality of higher education or simply better education definitely needs more money. In the long term, we plan additional resources through the state budget. Certainly, shortening the study time will also provide some of the opportunities that you have explained here in this chair. A number of colleagues have expressed concern that if the bar is too high and students are unable to get their credits together, then maybe higher education will become more cost-effective than it is now. Now I ask you the other way around: do you not see the danger or fears that if these young good people are tossing these 30 credits, which is, of course, our goal, that means that a significant part of private money in higher education is lost? Doesn't this cause problems for universities to cover their own costs? Or do you see any additional possibilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U128	This extra money, which is planned in the state budget, will nominally cover all the private money that is now going to public higher education institutions. There will certainly be private schools, where private demand continues to exist. This has been the case in all countries where free higher education has been the norm for decades. We have knowingly retained the possibility of partial tuition for those who, while working full-time and studying part-time, are actually able to pay part-time tuition. Therefore, this law is certainly not intended to deter private money from the higher education sector. But of course, in addition to what I have said about this remote control, we all know that, for demographic reasons, the number of young people graduating from upper secondary school in the coming years will decrease and, therefore, the demand for so-called extra-government teaching places will decrease, which in turn means that private money in higher education will also decrease without reform. I believe that a reasonable compromise has been found; the result is not quite black and white, that is, all for everyone and unconditionally free. Such a Communist ideal goes beyond the power and the mind of a reasonable state. But for all those who really can and want to learn, the possibility of free higher education is guaranteed by the bill and private money is not put in front of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U129	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U130	Thank you. The understanding of the change in the system of study grants has become quite important in the process of dealing with today's draft. You mentioned that you did not like the package proposals. It's probably not for us in this hall either. But did you consider proposing two legislative proposals in parallel, and when you considered the reason why you chose not to use this option?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U131	Of course, we considered it in order to present it in parallel. It would have been conceivable and reasonable. But on the other hand, in all cases, I do not think it would be appropriate to keep one bill out of the public debate just to wait for another bill. Especially in view of the fact that if we do not adopt and enforce this draft as a law, the current law will result in significant losses for higher education institutions. This is not in the interests of universities. I think that will be understood both by those in this Chamber and by good academic colleagues from universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U132	Dear Minister, Thank you! No further questions. Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Cultural Commission of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has prepared 89 draft laws amending the University Act, the University of Applied Sciences Act and other laws at a total of eight meetings of the Committee. In these eight sessions, the general principles of the bill have been discussed. These meetings have not been so precise but more general, as is customary in this large hall before the first reading and at first reading, and as provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act. In the Committee on Culture, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, opened the series of our meetings on 26 September and presented the general principles of the draft. The second time, he was in the Commission on 7 November when the debate was summarised. The Minister of Education presented to the Committee on Culture an analysis of the impact of our committee's request on what the new funding model for universities and the calculation of the completion of the curriculum on a semester-by-semester basis within 30 European credits will lead to. I am now looking at my notes that the Minister was also on the Committee on Culture for the third time, on 10 November. a when we made procedural decisions on how to move forward with the draft and the political groups presented their views on the draft. We have met and discussed thoroughly with the rectors of public universities, the rectors of professional universities and the rectors of private universities of applied sciences. The representatives of the National Audit Office have been before the Commission, and we have also heard the opinion of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, which took place on 25 October. I do not think it appropriate to dwell on the positions on which Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister for Education and Science, stopped here today in presenting the draft and answering questions. However, I will say that at the first meeting, the Minister explicitly confirmed that in the near future a model of a performance agreement between universities and the Estonian state will be drawn up, which may be used as a basis for supplementing, where appropriate, the regulation of the draft. In fact, we have also had a discussion about how much the performance agreement should be at the level of the law and how much details it makes sense to keep the regulation at the level. However, we know that Annex 1 to the draft proposal also includes a draft regulation on the basis of which performance contracts can be concluded. Similarly, at its first meeting on 26 September, the need-based system of education grants rose as a topic. The Minister did not consider it necessary, as we have heard today, to directly link the introduction of grants to free learning, but considered it possible that certain agreements and compromises would be possible here. At its first meeting, the Minister for Education and Research also informed the Commission that the draft could enter into force on 1 January 2012, but confirmed that this was certainly not an end in itself. Here are the key points that crystallised in our meetings with the various parties. First of all, a meeting with the rectors of public universities. Rectors of public universities published, stressing this, their support for higher education reform and pointing out that our higher education system needs to change. It is important that the reform improves the quality of higher education in particular and improves the efficiency of higher education. However, they said that the regulation based on these two postulates was too general. The Rectors discussed the requirement to collect 30 credits on a semester-based basis, both in the meeting with the Committee on Culture and in the letters sent to us later. They pointed out that they questioned the link between free learning and the requirement to collect 30 credits per semester, which in their opinion may result in students becoming paid after the first semester. The opinion was that, therefore, higher education may become less accessible to less-insured students (I stress the word'may'). At the meeting with the Rectors, there was also the issue of how the draft will affect students' potential work during the studio. Rectors estimate that it is inevitable that students will work during the studio. Their conviction and suggestion was that the draft should be more flexible in this respect, not just offering two options for the student to either work or not work. Rectors also stressed that the reform of higher education will be successful if, at the same time, the education allowance system is implemented and the condition that the grants are higher is met. We have had a regulation in the draft text at meetings with both rectors and later with students' and students' representatives, according to which it is prohibited to study in the form of exams and calculations while on academic leave. The Rectors' proposal is that the organisation of academic leavers should be within the competence of universities and be within the framework of university autonomy. Rectors pointed out that in order to internationalise higher education, free learning should also be ensured on the basis of foreign language curricula. They said that it could be possible to introduce exceptions in agreements with the university, but universities have a wider obligation to be more international. Of course, funding for universities and a new financing model were at the heart of the meeting with the Rectors. The rectors unambiguously agreed with the draft direction that universities need to become more efficient, but they pointed out that this would require additional funding for the transition. Rectors' concern about funding was how universities cope when the so-called 'private' inflow of money to universities may decrease. They pointed out a variety of cost sources, such as the costs of infrastructure, the salaries of teaching staff, and a number of other aspects, which they believe might be compromised in a situation where 45% of students pay tuition fees at Tallinn University, for example. At the same time, the Rector of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre pointed out that this percentage was very low at the Music Academy. We can see that universities do not have a common position either, but the subject is certainly important. At our last and last meeting on the reform of higher education, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Research, said to the members of the Commission whether he considered it possible to finance a curriculum by a private legal person, thus creating study places and bringing private money to universities, that this is, in his view, very acceptable. But it must certainly not be that the funder buys into the university students who do not meet the general conditions of admission. However, admission must be based on general rules to ensure the quality of students. However, the introduction of university finance by a private person must be more clearly stated in the draft. The Ministry of Education and Research is working on this wording. To sum up, universities expect the reform to make students' attitudes towards learning more serious and to try to complete their studies with a nominal time, but compromises could encourage private investment to come to university. In their letter dated 1 November, the Rectors propose that the proposed reform of higher education funding be postponed for one year. On 17 October, the Committee on Culture met with the rectors of the universities of applied sciences. The most important points that came out were as follows: Rectors of universities of applied sciences considered it very important that the funding criteria be linked to the transition assessment and the results of the ongoing assessment of study programme groups. You can't throw away the work you've done. I consider it very important to stress that the rectors of universities of applied sciences highlighted the specific nature of professional higher education, especially in relation to the higher percentage of traineeships in curricula. According to the Rectors of the University of Applied Sciences, in order to allow for a more flexible combination of study and traineeship periods, it would be more appropriate in the draft to base the calculation based on the academic year instead of a semester, on 1 September of 31 August. Thus, the Rector of the Estonian Maritime Academy pointed out that, for example, the internship at the Maritime Academy lasts 12 months. In several universities of applied sciences, a high percentage of students working in their field of study is common, for example in the field of health care. It's the same at the National Defence Academy. It is interesting to note that, despite the pay situation, students at the Academy of Home Affairs are motivated to further study even after a Bachelor's degree in order to provide themselves with the necessary baseline for a career in the system. The 30 credits requirement was said to be too rigid in their opinion and could lead to greater loss. It was also pointed out that it was considered necessary to maintain training places financed by legal entities. On 18 October, representatives of the Estonian Student Association and the Association of Estonian Student Unions were invited to the meeting of the Committee on Culture. The discussion focused on the conditions of admission to higher education and needs-based study grants. The representatives of the Estonian Student Association considered it important that other criteria, such as conversation, should be taken into account when entering higher education in addition to the final exams, which would assess the motivation of the student candidate to study. It was proposed to decouple national examinations from secondary education. At the meeting with the representatives of the Estonian Student Union, it took quite a lot of time for the problem of the connection between state examinations and university entrance. The representatives of the Association of Estonian Student Unions considered the objective set by the bill to finance free learning, but they referred to one of their previous positions. They have also written to the Commission that the student should be entitled to a free study place, regardless of the language of instruction, if he or she completes at least 75% of the study programme. It is important to emphasise this because we have discussed the extent of the completion of the curriculum in the past. So that's the student's position. Completing 75% of the curriculum cumulatively over the course of the year, we note that it would make it possible to better take into account the specificities of different curricula. It is logical that the Association of Estonian Student Unions in particular set out the principle that the right to study free of charge cannot be realised without the need-based application of study grants. For quite a while, the students stopped...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U134	The sitting at which we took procedural decisions took place took place on 10 November. Two competing proposals were hatched there. My colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta proposed that the draft be put to first reading in plenary today with the proposal to end the first reading and to set a deadline for the submission of amendments. There was another suggestion that the first reading should be interrupted. In the Commission, my colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta's proposal to close the first reading was supported (vote 6:5). The second vote then took place on the deadline for tabling amendments. My colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta proposed a deadline of ten working days; my colleague Jaak Allik proposed that the deadline for submitting proposals be set at 1 March 2012. There was a vote and support (vote result 6: 5) for my colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta's proposal to set ten working days by which amendments should be tabled. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U135	Good performer! I am sorry, but there would be a wish to hear the Commission's decisions as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U136	What does that mean, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U137	What did you decide in the committee? Your time will run out in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U138	I would have gotten to that in ten seconds. I'm gonna finish my thought, though. In fact, the students' position was linked to the concept of a household, that it should be more flexible and that it should encourage students' ability to manage independently.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U139	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U140	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a purely technical question. Would you look at the title of this bill? There are words like 'and other laws' here. By developing it formally, it cannot be ruled out that one day a bill will arrive at our table, the title of which is, for example, 'The law amending this one and another law'. But I'm asking you seriously now. Look, there are eight laws being amended. Suppose I'm interested in what was last amended by the Administrative Cooperation Act. I'm using a search system, but I can't answer that law because there's no mention of administrative cooperation in the title here. How would you look at it if you changed the title of this bill and put all these eight laws in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U142	It is my understanding that our lawmaking practice is that if the list is very long, the law of 'and the law of amending other laws' will be formulated. More specifically, it is possible to find what is being amended in the explanatory memorandum and also in the main text of the law. The search engine should provide all changes in response.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U143	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I graduated 35 years ago. In the meantime, I haven't had the opportunity to listen to such detailed and long lectures, which is why I didn't start to comment on your presentation right from the start. I therefore ask you to repeat what were the most important issues in the Commission. Experts are working on the Commission, and I do not believe that your work would have been simply a means of raising your hands. There must have been a very fruitful discussion. I believe that in two minutes you can list for us precisely the most painful and important issues that needed to be discussed most in the work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U145	Thank you. As I said, the Commission had eight sessions in which the first reading was prepared. The following were the topics that either way tended to recur. Firstly, the new funding model for universities, i.e. the replacement of national training orders by the introduction of performance contracts and performance areas. It was about what the performance agreement mechanism would look like. This relates to the Minister's promise to bring a model outcome agreement to the Commission's desk by the end of November. Secondly, the need-based draft law on study grants, which we would like to see while we are dealing with this draft. We're not saying we have to accept them at the same time, but we'd like to see this bill. That's what we've been talking about. One specific topic was the completion of the curriculum within 30 European credits and the fact that the current draft provides for semester-based accounting here. Does it have to be like this, or does it have to be different? On many sides, it seemed that this calculation could be annual or cumulative. It was a question of whether there had to be 30 credits or something else. At the last meeting, we stated very clearly that the curriculum could be completed with either 30 or less credits, either cumulatively or non-cumulatively, but still either with grade A or with grade E in the same way.If we want to focus on quality, it would probably make sense to introduce a quality criterion, i.e. a medium rating requirement. Its wording was promised by the Ministry of Education and Research to bring it to the Commission. One topic was the possibility for private individuals to create study places and finance curricula. The Ministry of Education and Research has also promised to present it to us. It has also been a big issue to do a so-called cross-section of what it means to allow state-funded study places only in the case of Estonian-language curricula. What is the share of other languages? This is what I referred to as the link between the internationalisation of universities with this requirement. But I think we'll be clear on that, too. Students have identified the concept of household, whether the student belongs to or does not belong to this household, in the context of a need-based education allowance system. I think the most important issues have now been said.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U146	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U147	Thank you very much. Good performer! You were talking about calculating the completion of the curriculum, focusing on universities of applied sciences. I represent the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, of which I am a member. There begins the academic year at the end of August and the spring semester also begins at an untradential time, because it is good to use the so-called full weeks. The problem is credit points. Many institutions of higher education, including EAMT, have intensive courses and summer schools where credits are also collected, but according to this bill, these credits would not be taken into account at all. What might be the solution? Do you see a solution in the fact that a semester in this bill means not as short a time as it has usually been, but half a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U148	Thank you. The topic of the Academy of Music, and just as you put it, was also on the agenda for a meeting of the Commission. Due to the study-specifics of the Academy of Music, the rector pointed out that their students are unable to complete their studies during the nominal period and that their studies at the Academy are often prolonged. This is not because students are somehow incompetence, but because they are really engaged in internships. The Committee on Culture certainly has a serious job to do in order to rethink the calculation of the completion of the curriculum and determine how we do it, how we take into account the particularities you have now come up with. These features are also present in universities of applied sciences, such as the Academy of Internal Defence and the universities of health, where people practice even 100%. So what kind of calculation is it, it's year-specific, or it's something else, it's going to be cumulative, and it's going to be decided. But we definitely have to find a solution. The Ministry of Education and Research, I am pleased to say, is cooperative on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U149	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U150	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! This bill amends eight laws and the theme circle is extremely wide. Do you think that ten days are still enough time to table amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U151	Thank you! Our committee's decision was that it was not ten days but ten working days to table amendments, which means that there will also be non-working days. But to give time to think and mitigate as much as possible the risks you referred to, the Commission turned to all the partners that we know of, as soon as we made a decision. We pointed out that this deadline was ten working days, and we asked for it to be noticed. Of course, when the amendments are received and the Commission starts to examine them, we will do so in the utmost detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U152	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U153	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! First of all, thank you for a very thorough and substantive report. My question concerns the entry into force of the law. Very important parts of this law will enter into force according to the draft on 1 September 2012. At meetings with the rectors and other parties, it has been acknowledged that we want to put these changes into effect in September next year, but in fact, the admission conditions for universities that have not been able to do so should have been developed by now. Would you like to comment on that a little bit? Would it perhaps be rational to meet the rectors and do the reform as soon as possible, but still postpone it for a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U154	Thank you. Yes, a number of meetings have raised this issue: if the draft regulation on admission and the transition to new curricula should enter into force on 1 September 2012, but universities must have the admission conditions in place by the end of the previous year, which is November of this year, then it cannot be denied that there are certain scissors here. The Minister of Education and Science paid attention to these scissors today in his speech and in answering questions. I consider this a very serious problem. When we discussed this with the Minister for Education and Research at the first session of the Commission as well as at the last two sessions, he also said that speedy entry into force is not an end in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U155	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U156	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I will continue on the subject raised by my colleague, Enn Eesmaa, with regard to universities of fine arts. Two days ago, I met the rector of the Music and Theatre Academy in Vilnius, who described the colourfully drastic educational reform that was carried out in Lithuania three years ago, and today the fruit is in hand. Now even politicians from the Lithuanian Seim Committee on Culture recognise that many mistakes have been made and that reform must begin again. They have even taken the first steps to do so. Wouldn't it be reasonable and rational to meet with the Lithuanian Seim Cultural Commission for a moment and listen to the problems they encountered when trying to grab engineering, philology and piano studies under one roof with one educational reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U157	Thank you, Madam Vice-Chairman, for this question. I thank you for the information on the Lithuanian experience. I wouldn't have thought of that. I just didn't have any information. I believe this exchange of information will be useful in any case. But draft 89 focuses mostly on funding higher education, which is a very important issue. There are certainly other very important issues in higher education that are still to be discussed and where problems need to be resolved. I believe that these steps must also be taken. In this sense, work must certainly continue on a broader scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U158	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U159	What prompted me to ask was that I looked at the guest balcony. Therefore, I will start with a quote: 'The biggest problem in Estonian higher education is the educated Estonian woman. " This excellent idea has been expressed in 21st century Estonia by the current Minister of Education Conservative Jaak Aaviksoo. How does Urmas Klaas assess the validity of this idea in 21st century Estonia as chairman of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu? Is the young educated woman in Estonia also a problem for the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U160	Thank you for this very interesting question. I am quite convinced that not for the Reform Party alone, but for Estonian society in general, the problem is a poorly educated Estonian man. The idea of this problem lies not alone in the institutions of higher education, which we are discussing today, but the problem begins in primary school, it is amplified in upper secondary school and it is reflected in school drop-out. Boys may not make it to school that well. This was also highlighted in the educational strategy put together by the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, which was discussed quite thoroughly in the press during the summer. When we came to today's debate, we discussed this topic at a committee meeting dedicated to the Human Development Report, and it finally channeled it into the framework of this draft. This was due to the fact that Professor Marju Lauristin pointed out that the requirement of 30 credits could become a problem for young men's students and especially for young men who created a family, who inevitably want to work and have to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U161	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! My question concerns people who want to learn at the same level of education for the second time. The minister said yes so that this issue could be dealt with. My question is: what is the Commission's position and has it been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U163	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U164	Thank you. The Commission has not discussed this with the clarity that you are asking me today. But the subject is certainly important. I admit that this should be discussed in the future, but today the answer is that we have not discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When we are talking about the Social Welfare Act, under this law, a person aged 25 and 55 is in the same state that cannot be considered normal in any way when receiving income support. But my question is this: maybe you're talking more about student needs-based support? Have you discussed this issue in the Commission at all, have you heard anything about it and, if you have heard, what?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U166	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U167	Thank you. I've heard a lot. The Minister for Education and Science has submitted to the Commission the basic postales of this draft, which, although fit on one A4 paper, do exist. It is no secret, we can pass them on to the Committee on Social Affairs, and perhaps it makes sense to discuss this subject in the future with the Committee on Social Affairs, so that the debate is diverse. The principle is that a need-based learning allowance system should enable the student to focus as much as possible on the studio and to complete it within a nominal period. Personally, I think it is important not to think that the support system is going to be such that there is no longer a need to work or that work must somehow be sidelined. It's a completely different dimension, an internship, and everything that comes with it. But this debate is definitely ahead of us. Any proposal that contributes to the good functioning of this system and will work well is welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, This is about the Commission's work. Did you also discuss the content and form of the performance contracts in the Commission and was it possible to get acquainted with this project?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U169	Thank you! Although the 'bond scheme' of the performance agreement has given us the Minister for Education and Science at a meeting, what the performance agreement still looks like, perhaps, what this model performance agreement is, we do not know. Collaboration with universities to explain how these criteria need to be developed and how the state's interest in performance contracts is clearly expressed, currently taking place in the Ministry of Education and Research. I very much hope that, between the first reading and the second reading, as the Minister promised today from this chair, it will all be done. The Commission's consensual position is that, by the time this draft is adopted, we will certainly need to get more insight into what a performance agreement is and what the mechanism of its formation looks like.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U170	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U171	Honourable waitress! The Minister very boldly said that he felt that all interested groups supported this reform agenda. My own meetings with the rectors and students are more likely to give me reason to conclude that everyone recognises the need to reform higher education, but they are critical or even opposed to this plan. If you have discussed the views of the rectors and student organisations in the Commission, what are the clear common elements of the positions of the rectors and students and where perhaps the future will be understood differently, so that the rectors agree and the students disagree?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U172	Thank you. Indeed, everyone who has met in the Commission has said that higher education needs restructuring and precisely because more attention needs to be paid to the quality and efficiency of higher education. I agree with Minister Aaviksoo that the issues that need to be decided on are quite crystallised. These topics include taking into account the completion of the curriculum, setting up study places by private parties, definitely clarifying the development of the performance contract mechanism, the need-based draft study grants. If you answer your questions, where students and rectors had different opinions, according to my memory, the students have not expressed a clear view of the draft law's entry into force, or at least they have not commented on the Rectors' view that the entry into force should be postponed for a year. These views are obviously not the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U173	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the quality of higher education. The bill contains a clear principle that it is the taxpayer who collects at least 30 credits per semester that receives higher education at the expense of the taxpayer. The understanding or predictions of whether the 30 credits limit improves quality or actually contributes to its deterioration differ. The supporters of the improvement say that universities will be interested in raising the bar and tightening it up, because then students will be able to fail and ask them for the money they need in the budget. Others say that if a student has already gotten into college, you have to hold on to him with your nails and teeth and not get him out of here, so he'll have to pass the exams more easily, as long as he's at the university. What kind of mind are you?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U175	Thank you for your question. I don't feel either way. I would not like to believe, as a former lecturer, that I should begin to comply with the instructions of the university administration or finance department to assess the test performance according to how much money is needed in the university budget. I am convinced that no university, no higher education institution in Estonia can have such a system. But I think that we should regulate more precisely how the syllabus is implemented, what quality. One way is to set the average grade requirement. There are different ways to do this. In the Commission, we talked about the US model. The Minister of Education and Research promised to offer the Commission one way to formulate such a criterion. I think it's very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U176	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Am I right to understand your report and the review of the Commission's work that the Minister has made you a promise that, within the ten days left to propose improvements, you will learn more about education grants than just these postulates on one page? I would also like to warmly acknowledge your point that this draft could be discussed with the Committee on Social Affairs. There is no doubt that the subject of education grants and income support is an area where the Social Committee has the necessary expertise. There will certainly be support for this bill and support for students.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U178	Thank you. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, also today from this speaker, expressed his views on the draft law on study grants, which matched your position. This bill is under development, and I hope it will be here soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U179	Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U180	Thank you. Good waitress! I will continue on this subject, which was started by Laine Randjärv. To whom have we looked in the reform of higher education, what are the countries from which we take over better practices, or has Estonia chosen only its own path?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U181	Thank you. We have discussed this, for example, within the framework of the national training order system. Indeed, the model currently in force is quite unique, it is such an Estonian model. Speaking more philosophically about which country's higher education system has now set an example for us, no country has sounded like an example. So I have no international comparison to make, the initiator of the draft has not referred to the model countries when preparing this draft and introducing the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U182	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U183	Thank you. Good waitress! In November of the University of Tartu magazine, Professor of Economic Policy Jüri Sepp wrote a rather critical article on the same educational subject. He pointed out two serious threats. Firstly, the fact that, as a result of a change in funding principles, all the parties involved in higher education, especially the social sciences, are actually losing out. The second risk he highlighted is that the proposed changes do not support the principles of lifelong learning but rather undermine them. Were these two issues also seriously discussed in the Commission, and what were the Commission's views?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U184	Thank you. As regards Professor Sepa's view on how the new financing model affects the sustainability of university education, I believe it is quite clear that we will not be able to cope here without restructuring. Minister Aaviksoo explained very thoroughly and I agree with his basic arguments on why we need to change the model of university education and funding. Perhaps Professor Sepa's views are due to the fact that students studying both in the Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences now have a relatively high share of students who are studying for their money, but the admission of part-time students continues. I stress that the Minister has promised to make clear how the draft provides for the financing of the curriculum by a legal person with private money. This is currently not very well formulated. That is why fear may have arisen, as if private money were excluded from higher education. This may indeed be the impression of the current draft text. So we hope to discuss the more precise wording together soon. As regards lifelong learning, that is what I referred to when I spoke about universities of applied sciences, universities of health care, the Academy of Home Affairs. This is an important point that still needs to be considered. Mr Luik also asked about this when speaking about the open university. I believe that this is an issue that should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U185	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm gonna hit the ball in the exact same hole we just were at. A good colleague, Jaan Apple Tree, asked about funding. When the Minister of Education and Science finished his presentation, he argued that if this draft was not adopted as a law now, universities would lose a substantial amount of money. Maybe I wrote it down wrong. As Chairman of the Committee on Culture, can you comment on this Minister's statement? On the contrary, we have generally realised that there is a risk that private money will no longer be able to finance higher education if this reform is carried out. But here was the opposite argument that if the law was not passed, universities would lose a lot of money. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U187	There are certainly several aspects here. One aspect is that, if the system is implemented, universities may have a shift in obtaining private money, because at the beginning of the studio, it is not known how the student decides to complete the curriculum. It is not known whether it will decide to do so within a nominal period, i.e. it will not pay and maybe it will not pay because it will do so in the prescribed volume (the volume we are still arguing about), or it will say that it will start studying with a part-time period and will immediately start paying. We don't know what kind of cash flow the university can count on. There might be some scissors in here. But I think the Minister, when he answered you, a good colleague, meant that there was money for the changeover from the state budget, but in this case the money will not go to higher education institutions, but the Minister will use it to solve other important educational issues. I think that's what he meant. He's nodding in his spot right now. That's what he meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-17_U188	Good waitress! I thank you for your report and your answers. There are still questions, but it's been one o'clock. Today's trial is over. We will continue the debate on draft 89 at our regular sitting on Tuesday, 22 November. The sitting is adjourned. I wish everyone strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
