ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-10_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Dear colleagues, I believe that the autumn field work has been done by everyone, and I wish you a proper day for the martini! And now I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries! Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-10_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have an inquiry for Finance Minister Jürgen Ligi, and it's not because I'm involved with Saaremaa, but because I'm a man. After all, women must not ask Jürgen Ligi questions, and weaker men must not ask questions in the same way. I took the courage and dared to ask him. The inquiry concerns the use of the City of Kuressaare group account. The City of Kuressaare has granted AS Saaremaa Golf the right to use the City of Kuressaare's group account, thereby gaining the right to use the credit. As we know, Saaremaa Golf is a public limited company, of which the city of Kuressaare owns only 66.2%, the rest being small shareholders. As a result, we have the courage to ask the Minister of Finance two questions. Is this example a violation of the law? And how is the use of a group account regulated by what rules for local authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-10_U3	Good colleagues, no more calls. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the management board, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu will decide on its further proceedings. Let's move on to the messages. The Chairman of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and also to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. We're conducting a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. There is no need to clarify today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-10_U4	We go to the first item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Defence Act and the War Age National Defence Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Tõnu July, member of the National Defence Committee, to speak at the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-10_U5	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft law was completed in this Chamber on 12 October 2011. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 24 October. The deadline for tabling amendments was 24 October at 10 a.m. and no proposals were submitted at that time, so the text at first reading should be used as a basis for the second reading of the draft. As a reminder, the main objective of the draft is to update national defence terms by renameing the military defence development plan as a national defence development plan. Military defence is, of course, only one important element of national defence. National defence has a much broader meaning in its nature; it does not only concern wartime and military activities. The draft further clarifies the concept of defence forces. Pursuant to § 11 of the Peace Time National Defence Act, the Defence Forces are composed of military-organized entities within the realms of the Defence Forces, the Defence League and the Ministry of the Interior, of which the latter units have been terminated or restructured and are not intended to be re-established. At its meeting on 24 October, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft explanatory memorandum to second reading. The committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft law be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 9 November for the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, that the draft be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 16 November for the third reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-10_U6	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. No proposals were received to amend bill 78. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the first item is also dealt with. Good fellows, thank you. Our hearing is closed, I wish you every success in your work. Closure of the sitting at 10.06.
