ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U1	Good fellows! Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I have the honour of giving the Riigikogu a draft law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property to proceedings. We can talk about the thoughts that pass through this law when there is a more constructive debate. I will speak very briefly about the idea of presenting this bill. In particular, I do not remember that there would have been such an aziotage in the Riigikogu in connection with any law. On Monday we adopted the agenda, where the second item on the Wednesday agenda was the previous draft law, which was number 54. On Tuesday, we learned that the Government of the Republic withdrew this draft, on Wednesday we heard that two political parties of the government had submitted the same bill to the procedure, and now we are also giving this bill to the procedure, with the idea of saving the Riigikogu's reputation. Are we the ones who eat their words, including taking back such drafts, which have passed through two readings in full consensus, or is the man's word here in the Riigikogu paying something? We're trying to explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U3	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the seven members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will address the inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The Act amending the Income Tax Act and related laws, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, allows for the transfer, as one of the innovations, of property belonging to a self-employed company to a person who continues to operate the company. Paragraph 1 (47) of the same Act provides that the procedure for the application of the exemption when assets are transferred shall be laid down by regulation of the Minister of Finance. Regrettably, this regulation has not yet been issued within nine months of the entry into force of the Act, and this has caused quite a mess. In this context, the signatories have three questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U5	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's go to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkogu. Now, let's do the presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U6	The first item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Advertising Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I would like to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu to Priit Toobali, a member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U7	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Good fellows! On 16 May this year, the Estonian Centre Party Group handed over the draft Act amending the Advertising Act. The draft aims to introduce a total ban on alcohol advertising in television and radio programmes and as outdoor advertising. The draft law amending the Advertising Act aims to ensure, in particular, the protection of children and young people from alcohol advertising and to reduce alcohol consumption among children and young people and alcohol related harm by imposing stricter restrictions on alcohol advertising. A study by the Institute of Conjuncture has shown that in 2010 there was an average of 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol per capita in Estonia. These figures apply to all residents of Estonia. This means that every newborn, child, and old man, according to statistics, drinks 10.2 litres of pure alcohol a year. Contrary to the widely used myth, the quantities purchased by tourists and drunk on the spot have already been deducted from this figure. Alcohol is consumed by 86% of adults, and low alcoholic beverages such as beer and wine are consumed more frequently. 80% of people believe that alcohol policies must be implemented in Estonia with restrictions in order to reduce alcohol consumption. More than half of them considered strict restrictions necessary. It is this kind of statistics and the opinion of the people that has created a real need to once again tackle national alcohol policy. A few years ago, the sale of night liquor was banned under the leadership of the Centre Party and Tallinn...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U8	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows! There's a lot of noise in the hall. I ask that we respect the waitress and our colleagues who wish to take part in this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U9	It is clear to everyone today that this was essential and has significantly reduced alcohol consumption, but it does not seem to be enough. The next step must also be taken, and the Centre Party has therefore presented this draft to Parliament for discussion. The total ban on alcohol advertising in TV and radio programmes and outdoor advertising aims to reduce the impact of alcohol advertising on consumers, in particular on the values and attitudes of young people and children. Advertising aimed at the general public has a major impact on value formation. Alcohol advertising has the ability to portray alcohol consumption as a socially accepted and recommended activity, to support over-use values and attitudes, and to have a positive impact on the recruitment of new consumers, as well as to help increase the quantities of alcohol already consumed by those who consume alcohol and to make consumption more frequent. Alcohol advertising presents alcohol consumption as a safe, risk-free and problem-free activity with only positive emotions. In doing so, alcohol advertising masks potential health risks and negative consequences and also reduces the impact of prevention and health education. For the first time, EMOR studied the content of alcohol ads. An analysis of the alcohol ads shown on TV in June this year showed that less than half of the ads talk about the product, while the rest show partying and a pleasant life with alcohol, which undoubtedly has its effect. There is no regulation in the first-reading draft on the ban on alcohol advertising on the Internet. This issue was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I believe that it is possible and probably necessary to develop a mechanism for regulating the ban on alcohol advertising on the Internet between the first and second readings. I admit that this is difficult because the Internet is taking over the world, but I am hopeful and I think that it is possible to find a solution to this question too, either through the location of the server or the domain, or through such a path. This idea, which has emerged in the Committee on Economic Affairs, should certainly work and seek solutions here. Limiting alcohol advertising is an internationally recognised and appropriate measure in a complex alcohol policy. The impact of this measure on alcohol consumption and alcohol related harm depends directly on the rate of implementation of the measure. Alcohol advertising on radio, television and outdoor media is already partially banned in Estonia. The current advertising restrictions do not work, as shown, for example, by the impact of alcohol advertising on minors, and are partially applied to different types of alcohol. Alcohol must not be advertised on television or on radio from 7 to 9:00. But TNS Emor was investigating how many minors actually see alcohol ads. It turned out that minors watch TV from 8:30 p.m. to 11 p.m. at most, and that they are in front of the TV immediately after 21 p.m. when alcohol advertising is already available. Therefore, this measure does not bring the full potential benefits. The ban on outdoor advertising currently applies only to strong alcohol, but in Estonia the most common drink is mild alcohol. It is therefore necessary to take the next step to ban the advertising of lean alcohol. To mention the most well-known examples of banning alcohol advertising from other European countries, all alcohol advertising has been banned in Norway, including in print media, radio, television and outdoor advertising. In Finland, advertising of strong alcohol is prohibited, while in Sweden, advertising of alcohol is completely prohibited on television, radio and outdoor media; in France, advertising of alcohol on television is prohibited. In addition, alcohol advertising is banned in several other countries, both on television and on the radio, and there are countries where alcohol advertising is either completely prohibited or there is a total ban on the advertising of strong alcohol. This is the case in addition to the countries mentioned above in Denmark, Belgium, Spain, Ireland, England, etc. However, I would like to set the greatest example for Lithuania, which has adopted an amendment to the law, according to which a total ban on alcohol advertising will apply from 1 January 2012. Clearly, the Lithuanians have understood that public health and survival are more important than the profits of alcohol producers. According to studies carried out in OECD countries, alcohol consumption in countries with a restriction on alcohol advertising is 16% lower. In countries where, in addition to the promotion of strong alcohol, there are also restrictions on soft alcohol advertising, the amount of alcohol consumed is still 11% lower. Thus, studies show that a total ban on alcohol advertising can reduce its consumption by nearly 30%. The number of road accidents in countries with restrictions on strong alcohol advertising is down by a tenth and in countries with restrictions on both strong and lean alcohol advertising is down by a quarter. Links between alcohol advertising and alcohol consumption among young people have also been convincingly demonstrated in World Health Organisation studies. Watching a five - minute alcohol ad increases alcohol consumption by a bottle of lean beer a day. In the case of young people, the effects of alcohol advertising also last for an extremely long time. People who saw more alcohol advertising on young TV were drinking more alcohol than others throughout their subsequent lives, with each advertisement viewed clearly increasing the volume of drinks consumed by 1%. Both this year and earlier times, when a total ban on alcohol advertising has been sought, several alcohol producers have spoken out and stated that such a ban is incompatible with European Union law. In that regard, the Court held in its judgment of 8 March 2001, which raised the question of the legality of the restrictions on alcohol advertising in Sweden, i.e. the ban on alcohol advertising on radio, television and periodicals. The Court held that such advertising restrictions have a greater impact on the marketing of goods produced in other Member States and that advertising restrictions therefore constitute an obstacle to trade between Member States and affect the provision of cross-border advertising space. However, the Court drew attention to the fact that, although such a restriction on advertising restricts the rights conferred by the Treaty, the Treaty also authorises restrictions on the rights contained in the Treaty if this is done to protect and protect public health. There is no reason to believe that there is something different about Estonia. The principle is the same; it is done in the interests of public health and survival. Alcohol consumption causes more than 60 illnesses and health injuries, including accidents, injuries, mental and behavioural disorders, cancer and heart disease, being a very large source of financial burden both for the state as a whole and for the health care system and causing economic costs in one year for nearly 2.2 billion Estonian kroons, or 1.1% of GDP. Think, ladies and gentlemen, if we could save half or a quarter of this amount, a large amount of money would be released that could be used in healthcare for a completely different purpose, even for renovating hospitals. The effect of the full ban on alcohol advertising is long-term, since it primarily shapes young people's values, directs them to less alcohol consumption and thus results in fewer losses throughout their subsequent lives. The positive effects of stricter restrictions on advertising for alcoholic beverages outweigh the potential negative effects on economic activity. Thus, by banning alcohol advertising, we will have a healthier and more sober people in the future, and it will benefit both the state and the people themselves. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, which proposed that the first reading of this draft be concluded and is ready to discuss the matter further.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U10	Thank you! Good fellows! Do you have any questions? Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U11	Thank you. Thank you for your thorough explanation and comments. My problem, which I want to discuss, is this. Those ads that say drink vodka, then you'll be happy and rich, too, but there's less and less. More concern is the infiltration of sponsorship and indirect advertising. If you compare TV shows in Estonia and Finland, for example, you can use a telescope to find out what kind of bottle they drink, but you can't see it because the labels have always been turned away, and the Estonian series is exactly the opposite. We remember a U.S. show where a man came home and didn't ask his wife and kids how he was doing, he went straight for a drink of vodka. In my previous working life, competing channels were jealous of the length of advertising and alcohol advertising. Is that what you do today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U12	Thank you. First of all, how the content of advertising is changing over time. Studies show that the opposite is the case at the moment. More and more ads, where alcohol is treated as a good companion at a party or on a beach, come with the product if not much of it is advertised. When you look at other European countries, when it comes to sponsoring advertising, there are a lot of countries where alcohol-related sponsorship advertising is prohibited. This is the case in Belgium, France, Italy, the Netherlands and so on. As far as I know, competitors don't follow it very much anymore, because everyone actually uses it. The proposal does not deal directly with sponsorship advertising, but I think that, between the first reading and the second reading, the Committee on Economic Affairs could certainly discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U13	Peter Laurson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U14	Thank you. Good waitress! How good the ban on alcohol advertising has been in Finland, can you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U15	Thank you. First of all, after 2001, when all of Europe has taken a more serious approach to restricting alcohol advertising, the amount of alcohol we drink per person has fallen, on average, by more than two litres a year. This includes the effect of Finnish restrictions. So, obviously, restrictions on alcohol advertising in Finland and other countries have had an impact. Let me give you another example. After Estonia introduced a limit on the sale of alcohol at night, the average consumption of alcohol in Estonia has also decreased by more than two litres per person per year. So it is clear that these measures will reduce alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U16	Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U17	Thank you. In your report, you pointed out that the main emphasis is on reducing alcohol consumption among young people. Let us remember that alcohol advertising still has restrictions on television, and it is a question of how effective these restrictions are monitored. Is there no danger that advertising can move all over the Internet, which is relatively difficult to control and where our young people spend the most time? Do you see any regulatory options there? The second question is due to the previous answer. Can you name the specific studies that have shown that the ban on the sale of alcohol at night has guaranteed a reduction in alcohol consumption of just two litres, which we all welcome?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U18	Thank you. First of all, the first question concerning the advertising of alcohol on the Internet. When advertising is banned on television and on radio, does it lead to advertising on the Internet? I think it might probably happen that more advertising will then be on the Internet. In my report, when I presented the draft, I also mentioned that there was no regulation in the draft. However, as we discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it is likely that this regulation needs to be introduced here. I see here as a possible measure that restrictions can be imposed on advertising through the location of a server or domain. It can certainly be discussed with specialists from other countries. I think there are other measures on how online advertising, including alcohol advertising, can be restricted or even banned. You mentioned supervision. I, too, am concerned that there is a restriction on alcohol advertising on television and radio in Estonia from 7:00 to 21:00, but as a fairly active television watcher, I can safely say that there are several television channels that violate this law. The TV channels have agreed that they won't present alcohol commercials until 10:00 p.m., they've been out in the open to make sure they don't. They don't really stick to this agreement, and since 9:00 p.m., alcohol commercials are spreading on different private television channels. But the studies I referred to are WHO studies, which also speak about Estonia. In 2007, a nocturnal alcohol sales restriction was introduced, after which alcohol consumption has decreased by more than two litres per person. I'd draw a parallel here and see the connection with the nocturnal liquor restriction.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U19	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U20	Thank you. Dear waitress, This is certainly a very necessary draft and I hope that it will also become a law. In addition to the ban on advertising, there are a number of other measures to prevent or reduce the risk of alcohol reaching minors. Have you thought about other measures because, in combination, they are the most effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U21	Thank you. In addition to the ban on advertising, there are undoubtedly measures to reduce alcohol consumption. This is done by prevention, so-called counter-promotions, which show the negative impact of alcohol on both mental and physical health, and also by increasing excise duty, which has also been done, restrictions on points of sale, sales time restrictions. These are the measures that could be taken. Once again, I must draw attention to the studies that I and the drafters have at their disposal. European and world practice shows that alcohol advertising has the greatest impact on alcohol consumption. As I said, in those countries where alcohol advertising is either partially or totally prohibited, it is possible to reduce alcohol consumption by nearly 30%. No other measure has such an impact on alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U22	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U23	Dear speaker or speaker! I'd like to introduce you to the fact that I'm not in favour of alcohol. But in your report, you indicated that alcohol advertising was banned in Sweden, and it has allegedly produced good results. I have read studies that say that while in Sweden alcohol advertising is banned on television and on radio, last year the volume of alcohol advertising on television increased by 26%. This is because of the television stations that do not broadcast from Sweden, but from outside Sweden. Among them are the channels we know about TV 3, Channel 5, MTV. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, did you also think about the fact that television channels have the same problem as the Internet, but perhaps it is even more difficult to control?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U24	Thank you. I have looked at the verbatim reports of the debate on this issue since 2004 and 2007. That question also arose at the time. However, since this issue was discussed in this Chamber in 2004, a number of countries, including those large countries which own most of the television channels or which are allowed to broadcast these television channels, have imposed a number of restrictions on the advertising of alcohol, which are licensed or licensed on these channels. At the moment, the problem is that, alright, we ban alcohol advertising in Estonia, but through external channels, it still gets to us, certainly less than in 2004. More and more countries are imposing restrictions on alcohol advertising, so that fewer and fewer alcohol advertising can also reach us via these television channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U25	Raivo Järvi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U26	Thank you very much. Good waitress! Despite the fact that I'm on top of you with alcohol, I always get a red light, just like this one on the microphone, when we're moving a little towards an orwellian world where no smoking on the TV screen, no drinking alcohol, and maybe soon we won't get to know any unknown ladies. However, in the form of a recommendation, I would like to ask a question that is purely pragmatic. Have you considered that the Commission's meetings should analyse how much tax revenue is being lost on these television channels and what impact this could have on industry, employment and everything that affects the state budget? I think the opposition thinks the same way as the coalition, that the state budget is still a and o.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U27	Thank you for your question. If the goal is public health and survival, I would not look at the profits of alcohol producers and advertising producers. They will no doubt lose some of their income. I think that's why this advertising ban doesn't apply now, that part of the revenue is lost to alcohol producers and probably to sponsors in this part of the hall. Once again, I stress that when it comes to public health, the number of money is less important.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U28	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U29	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr President, thank you very much. In the general principle, your orientation is, of course, correct. But I will ask a question similar to that of the previous question. Do you have a picture of commercial television advertising, for example, what part of it is alcohol advertising?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U30	Thank you. Looking at the percentage of alcohol advertising on television, I think that's a pretty big part. Once again, every Estonian drinks an average of 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol a year. If you take out babies who are not likely to drink, divide it into slightly thinner alcohol, because I do not believe that alcohol is being drunk, the amount of alcohol you drink per person is quite large. When we talk about public health, including the survival of the people, I do not think it is quite right to talk about the profits of alcohol producers and advertising companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U31	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. My question concerns the fact that there is, as we know, the free movement of people and goods within the European Union. Can you give an overview of the alcohol policy with our neighbours in Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U33	Thank you. There is no information on Latvia in the materials I have with me here. However, when it comes to the free movement of goods and its restrictions, I drew attention to the ruling of the European Court of Justice, according to which it can also be limited if it is in the interests of public health and survival.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U34	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U35	Mr President, thank you very much. I will specify my question. Let's put aside whether it's good or bad. But have you been in direct contact with the commercial channels and asked them what part of their wallet is this commercial?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U36	Thank you. No contact. As I said before, looking at the proportion of advertising, I think it's quite large, there's a lot of alcohol advertising, too much. But as a doctor, you should also be aware that drinking alcohol can lead to the spread of at least 60 diseases. This is certainly a threat to public health and survival.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U37	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U38	Thank you. That's my question. The point of the problem is probably physical dependence on alcohol. Years ago, when I faced these problems, it was said that there were about 30,000 people in Tallinn, but perhaps more people who were physically addicted to alcohol. What's the situation now, do you have any idea? The following question: is it even appropriate to talk about the state budget in the case of such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U39	Thank you. I'll start at the end. As I said, in the context of this issue, when looking at these figures and studies, I do not think it is appropriate to speak first of all about the state budget. But for me, the point is not on the behaviour of people who are addicted to alcohol, but mainly on the amount of alcohol that young people consume. Alcohol advertising has the greatest impact on young people's behaviour and alcohol consumption. In my report, I brought some pretty graphic figures. Another thought - provoking fact: young people start drinking alcohol at an average age of 12 to 13. The age limit at which alcohol is started is getting lower and lower. For example, 76.8% of schoolchildren aged 11 to 15 have used alcohol at least once and almost half of this age group has been drunk at least once. For me, this spike is aimed at young people's habits and alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U40	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U41	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Surely this is a very necessary bill that concerns the life and health of all of us. If the OECD study shows in concrete terms that alcohol consumption will decrease by 16% in those countries where there is no public alcohol advertising, I think that is a thought-provoking fact. But has the author thought of a covert ad? I mean, groceries. If you want to buy a pack of milk and bread and you pay for it, you have to go past tens of meters of liquor counters. Maybe these departments should be separated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U42	Thank you. Perhaps the questioner himself remembers that, when we drafted this draft, there was a debate in the group about whether this aspect should also be introduced here to demand even separate shelves for alcohol in small shops or separate departments in supermarkets. The bill doesn't see it coming. But without a doubt, restricting alcohol outlets will also have an impact on alcohol consumption. I hope that all four groups will address this issue. If there is such an amendment, I think that our group will certainly be willing to consider it and discuss it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U43	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, In nine months this year, the number of murders in Estonia has increased by 16%. If you're reading criminal records, it looks like at least three-quarters of the murders have been committed intoxicated. Are there such statistics as the number of drunken murders, the number of people killed in fires, on water bodies, on the roads, precisely because of the fact that some of the participants have taken vodka?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U45	Thank you. This table contains statistics on road accidents. Here I read that the number of road accidents in countries with strong alcohol advertising restrictions has fallen by a tenth. Maybe one in ten lives can be saved if you don't ban strong alcohol advertising.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U46	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U47	I will continue with the subject initiated by Mikhail Stalnukhin. Mikhail Stalnukhin said, and I agree that the oppressive part of car accidents and murders are committed by sober people. This does not lead to the conclusion that drinking should be increased. But the question still arises. In statistics that have passed through here, there is one thing that is right for minors. That's bullshit. Everything else is more or less taken from the ceiling and propaganda. But now I ask: where can a person who is not dependent on alcohol, living a normal life, get information about what to drink and where are the best prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U48	Thank you. First of all, these studies. In my introductory presentation, as well as in answering questions, I have said that I have used OECD and WHO studies. If they are propagandistic and irrelevant to the questioner, it remains on the questioner's conscience. But where does a person who almost doesn't consume alcohol get information?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U49	No, wrong! ...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U50	Good fellow Igor Gräzin! We have a question and an answer. So don't mean...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U51	There's literature for that. Specialist literature provides information on the effects of alcohol on health, both physical and mental health, prices and purchasing opportunities. This is allowed in Estonia and the bill does not prohibit it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U52	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U53	Thank you. Good waitress! One of the newspapers issued by the Centre Party's office for Tallinn money came into my hands in the hallway of the Riigikogu. Its back cover clearly shows the advertising of a tavern that has a brand that is quite large and visible and can also be detected on a bottle of washer, and it is written in three languages that it is vodka, so that everyone can understand it in the same way. You're talking about the need to limit alcohol advertising in private channels. I think that the debate that will take place in both the Committee on Economic Affairs and Parliament's plenary is welcome and interesting. But wouldn't it be appropriate to start from within the door and from within your own responsibility and, at least for public money, not to publish those ads where the bottle of vodka is very clearly visible?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U54	Thank you. This bill deals with the ban on advertising alcohol as a product, not the ban on advertising entertainment establishments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U55	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U56	I want to be more specific. It is not those who consume little that we are talking about, but I talked politely about consumers. Did I understand you correctly that as to which particular cognac or vodka is useful, what its prices are in different shops, I receive complete information from specialist literature, such as the Yearbook of Drugology, the University of Tartu Working Papers, studies of the Institute of Drugology, etc. That's where I'll find out what the price is in Selver and which one in Rimi. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U57	Thank you. I told you that you will receive information from specialist literature about the effects of alcohol consumption on both mental and physical health.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U58	I know it!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U59	In addition, you can go to your family doctor and ask him for information. You can also ask your groupmate Tõnu July, who is a doctor and can certainly answer these questions. But as for what kind of cognac tastes good and how much it costs, as far as I know, different trade chains are issuing commercial brochures. That bill doesn't prohibit it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U60	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U61	Thank you. Since Mr Gräzin does not have the opportunity to ask the third question, I logically continue this issue, which he raised, and I ask: where can a person who would like to buy drugs, information, which one is more useful and what are their prices, where would it be better to buy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U62	Thank you. I don't think a person should get information about where to buy drugs and how well it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U63	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U64	Thank you. First of all, I would point out that § 28 of the current Advertising Act clearly states that alcohol advertising is prohibited on the front and back of the newspaper. Therefore, this picture of the bottle of vodka on the back of the Midtown Messages can be interpreted as a direct violation of the current law. But I was distracted by the question of attitude. If the alcohol advertising in which alcohol is advertised is very bad in your opinion, if the advertising is something else, but it is actually dominated by a large and clearly visible bottle of vodka, under which it is written in three languages that it is vodka, everything is very well. How can it be understood that it is still not right to be principled and based on a common logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U65	Thank you. I'm sure you couldn't read my attitude from my last answer. I said the bill doesn't deal with this. But I look forward to the fact that the Reform Party Group, seeing the problem, would also propose an amendment to this advertisement, which is not directly related to the advertising of alcohol as a product, but which uses alcohol as a product. If the Reform Party Group proposes this, then the Central Party Group will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U66	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U67	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! How do we relate this bill to the field ad when we talk about brands? If we take Saku Suurhall or A.Le Coq Arena, people know that Saku and A.Le Coq are alcohol producers first. That's where outdoor advertising would actually work. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U68	Thank you. The draft law bans alcohol as a product advertising; it imposes bans on outdoor advertising and advertising on radio and television. Advertise Saku with alcohol as a product advertising is prohibited, but there is Saku Suurhall, there is Saku Municipality. We certainly can't ban the trademark Saku with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U69	Good waitress! Thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft submitted by the Centre Party in 50 of its 27 September. a at the meeting. Priit Toobal, the representative of the initiator of the draft act, presented in the Commission an overview of the objectives and content of the draft, which could be heard a moment ago in this very Chamber. Anne Laar, Head of the Trade Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who presented the views of the Government of the Republic on the draft, attended the meeting of the Economic Commission. It should be said that the Government of the Republic decided not to support the draft initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. The main reasons for non-support were as follows: First, § 2 provides for 1 January 2012 at the time of entry into force of the draft. The entry into force of the draft act within that period would infringe the principle of legitimate expectations arising from § 10 of the Constitution. In the case of long-term advertising contracts concluded before the adoption of the draft, the parties to the contract shall have a legitimate expectation that the rights and obligations arising from the contract will be carried out at least under the conditions in force at the time of the conclusion of the contract. With regard to the deadline for the enforcement of the draft law, the Government of the Republic also draws attention to the fact that the draft law amending the advertising law must be notified to the European Commission and the other Member States of the European Union. This notification obligation is laid down in a Directive laying down the procedure for notification of draft technical regulations. The Directive has been transposed into Estonian law by the Product Compliance Act. For the transmission of the draft to the European Commission, the draft shall be set at a standstill period of three months. Under different circumstances, this period may be extended to up to 18 months. If the act is adopted or still enters into force within the standstill period, it cannot be applied in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice in case C-443/98. Secondly, the draft explanatory memorandum does not reveal the impact on entrepreneurship of the measures chosen to meet the objective of the draft and the actual impact of the draft on the publication of advertising on television. Account must be taken of the fact that many television and radio programmes from other countries are retransmitted in Estonia, to which the jurisdiction of Estonia does not apply. Since the sales volumes of alcohol advertising are large and alcohol producers and alcohol importers are important advertising customers, it is possible that the larger Estonian television channels will withdraw their authorisation to provide media services in Estonia and start transmitting their programmes under the jurisdiction of other countries. This would mean that the changes introduced in the bill would not reduce the volume of alcohol advertising for the Estonian television viewer: advertising would spread to programmes and media forms transmitted under the jurisdiction of other countries, thus being free from the restrictions on the transmission of alcohol advertising currently in force in Estonia, including time restrictions. Finally, the government acknowledges that the country's alcohol policy needs to be reviewed, with particular emphasis on solving problems relating to children and young people, but does not consider it possible to support the proposed amendment of the advertising law. There was also an extremely interesting and open debate on the draft in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to highlight some of the issues and views raised during the debate. Firstly, it is also important for the draft to be based on the context of freedom of person and business. Alcohol advertising has already been subject to a number of restrictions and precepts in the current law. Before imposing restrictions which further reduce the freedom to conduct a business, monitoring of compliance with existing regulations should be started. I recommend that those interested read § 28 of the Advertising Act, where there is a whole page of very specific and strict regulations that are already in force. Secondly, there is no analysis of the economic impact. However, the loss of revenue for advertising agencies and media companies, for example, should be taken into account and its impact on the quality of the media programme and on the number of jobs. In this Chamber, too, the question was raised as to how much of the revenue from television channels constitutes a return on alcohol advertising. As far as I know, this fifth of their sales revenue may be quite an important part. Thirdly, the draft provides for a ban on alcohol advertising on television, radio and outdoor media. According to the draft, advertising on the Internet is excluded, which is the main media channel for the target group with the highest risk, i.e. children and adolescents. If advertising requirements are tightened, there may be a situation in which alcohol advertising moves on a massive scale to the online environment. This in turn weakens supervision and control, as it is extremely difficult to do in the online environment. As has been said before, the bill and the laws currently do not regulate much alcohol advertising in newspapers and magazines, except that advertising on the front and back cover of the publication is prohibited. Fourthly, alcohol producers and private television channels have shown good will and voluntarily implemented more stringent advertising restrictions than the existing law. According to their agreement, alcohol advertising is not displayed in programmes that start before 21 and are of interest to minors (the current law allows alcohol advertising to be broadcast on TV from 21 o'clock). The parties have acted responsibly and are also prepared for further steps. Strengthening the law would be ignoring and even punishing such free will and responsibility. The members of the Commission expressed the opinion that alcohol policy should be viewed as a larger whole, which would include, in addition to advertising restrictions, tax policy measures such as increasing excise duties on alcohol, shaping values, security and health issues. Under the Coalition Agreement, the Government of the Republic has begun to review the national alcohol policy. September 23, s. The opening event for a Green Paper on alcohol was held in 2008. Within the framework of the Green Paper, the principles of current regulation will be reviewed. The initial positions should take place in the course of 2012. For example, there is a way of reviewing the content and presentation of alcohol advertising in order to avoid 'fun ads'. The Ministry responsible for alcohol policy is the Ministry of Social Affairs. In addition, the Committee on Economic Affairs considered that since the draft contains both economic and social aspects, the opinion on the draft should also be sought from the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. Finally, the Commission's decisions, all of which were taken in a consensual manner: to send the draft amendment of the Advertising Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 13 October, to propose to the Assembly to stop the first reading of the draft 50, to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 27 October 2011 and to ask the Social Committee of the Riigikogu for an opinion on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U71	Thank you, good waitress. There's a question for you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! In my opinion, there is a lot of unwarranted and unfair talk in this draft about the financial profits of alcohol producers and advertising companies and their loss. Which is more important to you: public health and survival or the financial profit of the alcohol producer, which is largely at the expense of young people's future and health?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U73	Thank you. For me, public health is more important, but the procedure for submitting drafts requires that a thorough analysis of the economic effects must also be presented. We in the Committee on Economic Affairs would be very superficial if we did not ask and want to know the magnitude of the real economic effects.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U74	Good waitress! I thank you for your report and your answer. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I ask for the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The explanatory memorandum to this bill is undoubtedly a good reading resource. At the same time, it should be noted that the explanatory memorandum contains information on countries where advertising is subject to restrictions of one kind or another, but excludes other measures affecting alcohol consumption and circumstances which may have had a significant impact in those countries at the same time. Each study, which discusses excessive alcohol consumption and its harms, emphasises that only combined measures can effectively combat excessive consumption. It should be known to anyone dealing with the issue of excessive alcohol consumption that the most effective intervention as an individual measure is price increases through tax increases, i.e. reduction of purchasing power. We have raised excise duties on alcohol in recent years, and we know that this has had a visible effect, especially in times of recession. In 2008, 12.1 litres of alcohol per person were consumed, compared with 9.7 litres in 2010. Other interventions taken alone, including banning advertising, are not effective. The combination of measures is much more effective and, at the same time, it is very important to reduce negative spillovers. It is precisely because of the risk of secret alcohol spreading that the increase in excise duty, for example, cannot move forward too quickly. The total ban on advertising, however, poses a clear risk that various marketing techniques will spread on a massive scale. Therefore, if advertising is severely restricted, it is necessary, for example, to set a minimum price for alcohol and to regulate the tasting of alcohol. Otherwise, with Estonia's well-known and very extensive advertising campaign at the alcohol marketing event, which is unfortunately misleadingly advertised to children as an appropriate event, in Õllesummer, for example, we can become a symbolic cider and in shopping centres the tasting of alcohol products can become everyday. At the same time, it is embarrassing to hear advertising and alcohol producers say that alcoholic advertising does not make anyone drink more, it only helps to choose better quality products. A strange example of this was that the laundry - powder ad doesn't make anyone do any more laundry. Indeed, I, too, have not heard of laundry addicts who would spend more time and money on it, ruin their health, be dangerous to their families, stop working because of this addiction, and cause damage to society as a whole. However, we are well aware of the harms and mechanisms involved in excessive alcohol consumption and dependence. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association are of the opinion that the most important are changes in attitudes and values of man and society as a whole. They can be increased by the price of various measures, advertising restrictions, access restrictions, drink control in traffic, information campaigns, etc., and by gradually tightening up interventions. Surely we must not rely solely on liberal self-righteousness: I want to drink myself to death, I do not want to, and I will not drink. It is not only by promoting an athletic lifestyle that we hope that the sneakers can be bought by anyone and that the city street and the forest floor are ready to run. We have built new sports buildings, built light traffic routes, created health trails, organized a series of activities promoting exercise, sought out dignified patrons for them, put forward motivational packages, and physical education has been a compulsory subject throughout the ages. Similarly, we need to deal systematically with restricting drunkenness, paying particular attention to preventing young people's alcohol dependence and consumption of alcohol at all. I'm asking for an extra minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U76	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U77	Creating so-called useful self-realisation opportunities is an important part of this. It is important for IRL to shape the entire living environment in such a way that it does not promote alcohol consumption, sales restrictions are balanced and attitude-forming and effective monitoring. We have offered five steps. Firstly, the restriction of advertising in the form that advertising may only show the product in undecorated form by listing the particulars of the product and excluding any mood-creating movement, music or wallpapers. Secondly, to determine the location of the alcohol in the store as the so-called "end point', to prohibit the placing of alcohol between other goods. Thirdly, a gradual increase in excise duty, prematurely on so-called training drinks, which are sweet soft drinks, targeted at young people and women. Fourthly, banning bonus campaigns, restricting tastes in public places. Fifthly, effective monitoring of the sale of alcohol to minors and the use of alcohol in traffic, prevention of the spread of illicit alcohol and parallel information campaigns. IRL will certainly be actively involved in the drafting of the Green Paper on Alcohol Policy, which was commissioned in the Coalition Treaty and is now launched by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Combating excessive alcohol consumption is like putting cunts on a barrel. One rod isn't enough, all rods must be dimmed with even tension, otherwise we can give birth instead of profiting from the best. While the draft in progress speaks of good objectives, there is a need to substantially amend and supplement the draft in order to realise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U78	Thank you! Please ask Viktor Vassilyev, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U79	Mr President! Dear friends, colleagues, and friends of destiny! The day before yesterday, I had the honour of presenting the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act submitted by the Centre Party here at the remote. It was about 83000 people without health insurance. I allowed you 20 minutes to listen to my story, which gave you the opportunity to ask a lot of questions, but there were no questions from the coalition. The questions came from the opposition side, so it was possible to clarify and talk a little bit more about the draft. Now that they were talking about alcohol ads, there were a lot of questions. I shall draw the following conclusion. In the Centre Party Group, the tasks are more or less divided among people. For example, I'm not really getting into electricity tariffs, so we have people who know these things more. I know more about social and health care. The people who share electricity tariffs better leave social and health issues to me. Turns out there's a lot of alcohol specialists in the coalition. It is very sad, of course, that what brands would be better to consume, which brands are better for health and which are more harmful, is very curious, but no one cares about the 83000 people without health insurance. The fear is that people will be more interested in things they feel better. Without health insurance, there's probably no one on the coalition side. Alcohol policy is not, by the way, a place to joke. It's very serious. People who are both theoretically and practically well aware of the question know that the use of these substances can be fun, create very cheerful emotions and pernicious behaviour, but not for long, the fun will pass, and morning will be difficult. That's what I wanted to tell you: Remember the mornings! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-13_U80	Thank you! No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 50 be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 50 amendments on 27 October 2011 at 12 noon. The first reading is closed and the first item is closed. Good fellows! We are not moving to the second item because there are no other items on the agenda. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.58 a.m.
