ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Good fellows! Today's anniversary of the grand deportation is a dark and warning sign in the history of the Estonian people. We remember those who were torn out of their homes and taken to Siberia, from which there was no return. May this day always remind us that we must stand up for our freedom. Let us rise in our common grief. [[The silence of grief.]] I now ask for a chair of speech for those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or enquiries. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuusi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to address to Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, and the subject is dental care. We've been asking questions like this on this remote. As we all remember, one of the first cuts made in this Chamber was precisely the cut in dental benefits from 1 January 2009. On the basis of the 2010 survey on Health and Health Care, nearly 2/3 of respondents consider dental care to be too expensive and would like to receive compensation. The loss of dental care compensation for adult persons has led to a significant deterioration in the availability of dental care services. We point out that Estonia is one of the most recent in Europe in terms of national dental security, as almost all European countries compensate for adults' dental care to a lesser or greater extent. For example, in Finland, up to 60% of dental care is compensated by health insurance and in Germany, 15% of the fee is paid to the patient on regular checks. All countries compensate to some extent, but Estonia does not. We have a number of questions for the Minister. If it was ever argued that revenue is falling and economic growth is slowing down, why should we not, now that our economy is on the rise, better compensate for dental care? Why should this benefit not at least be paid to the vulnerable population?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U3	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus, and the issue is the legality of mining. We all know that mineral mining is governed by laws that require a tight bureaucratic sieve to open up careers and subsequently pay mineral tax. However, in the light of the following problem, it is unclear whether these regulations still exist and if so, why they do not work. In fact, the islanders are familiar with how to sell the mineral resources on their land - soil, gravel or sand - without any difficult coordination and without paying tax. This is not a sale of mineral resources, it is an excavation of a pond on its land, which no one can prohibit. At the same time, the business is quite profitable: if, for example, you sell lice at a price of 3-4 euros per square metre, the income from one pond is severalty thousand tax-free euros. If the above is perhaps not such a problem, then the same scheme is already used in the middle of the forest by digging so-called ponds on previously harvested land. In time, however, these ponds grow full of food, agree, and then they are already very dangerous to the environment, not to mention that such holes are ruining the landscape. Consequently, we have eight questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U5	Thank you! There's no more calls. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has adopted two inquiries, and according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further proceedings. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 15 June: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs. Good fellows! We're conducting a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. The following clarification is on our agenda today. Last Thursday, 9 June, we were in the middle of a debate on the draft amendment to the Land Tax Act, which exempts the Land Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U6	I ask for a chair of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mr Sester, so that you can ask him questions, because this sitting was in progress. Good fellows! I would also like to draw the attention of all of us to the fact that, in accordance with the provisions of the second reading of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu, it is possible to ask up to two oral questions on this item and many of us have already asked our questions. Let's keep going. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U7	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'll give you a chance to warm up. You've been standing here on the remote for days now, tell me, are you ashamed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U8	Thank you, good Aivar! But to be ashamed of what? The draft that we have in the hall today, which we are discussing, provides an opportunity to exempt Estonian residents who own a home, 1500 square meters for dense settlements and 2 hectares of land tax in the case of diffuse settlements. If such a thing is a shame, I don't understand it. I think you should be ashamed of those who are against it. But I understand that no one in this hall is likely to object, because even our biggest city, the city of Tallinn, has come up with the relief of the land under home from land tax on an analogous scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U9	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Both you and coalition politicians have said, as one of the main reasons, that this land tax will be abolished for Tallinn's sake, but now the city of Tallinn is known to want to abolish its land tax. Do coalition politicians and coalition parties have reason to withdraw this bill now that the foundation of Tallinn has fallen away?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U11	Thank you. You have now quoted the words of your partymates, not mine. Your party associates have quite a number of times started the question by saying that we are dealing with a bill that will help to eliminate land tax in Tallinn. I have never said this; I am talking about losing the land tax according to the prescribed size in all areas of Estonia's dense and scattered settlement. So don't put the words of your partymates in my mouth. Dear colleague, I say once again, as I said last week: it is good that Tallinn has come up with this. All previous quotations from today's mayor in 2008-2010 show that the mayor of Tallinn had no intention of losing land tax, I stress, no plan. I think that if the current coalition parties have come up with a bill that concerns all the people of Estonia, and as a result Tallinn is about to take a decision, I hope that it will take this decision to lose the tax on the land under home is a good signal to society. Of course, there will still be the damage you cause in connection with the additional point in the draft which is to be dealt with in Tallinn, namely the 2.5% increase in the land tax in cases where the land is densely populated by more than 1500 m2. In my opinion, I would like to emphasise once again that leads to a situation where entrepreneurs may no longer want to operate in Tallinn, but this is already some other draft and another issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U12	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good colleague! I would actually like to ask a further question, because I did not get a very good answer to the first question. I am still concerned that those who receive rent will be exempt from land tax. The answer, of course, was the same as Prime Minister Ansip said that if a mother rents a room for students in Tartu, it should not be bad. Of course not. It seems that what Ansip said is sacred to you, and then you have to repeat it. But what I mean is that it could be done by some provision, for example, that if the rental income is up to the amount of the land tax, you could still be released, but if it were to be repeated over the land tax, then perhaps you should not be released. After all, there are some 300, 500 square meters of homes where perhaps 400 square metres have been rented out and the rental income is considerably higher than the land tax exemption. If so, wouldn't it be right not to release?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U14	Thank you. You closed your long speech with a question, but you also gave your own opinion on how this could be done. Well, then we'll have to discuss it. Why not, no law has ever been set in stone. At the moment, the position, which is also based on the Commission's majority view, is that the rental and rental income clause is deleted. The justification has already been set out in advance. All your suggestions, all the opinions you have in the four years you are in this Chamber, you can say at any time. It's your right. That is the position at the moment. I don't think you can talk about who worships or who's a god to anyone, but it's a common sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U15	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. It is now June 2011, the law is expected to enter into force from January 2013. In this sense, there is nowhere to rush, the draft could be dealt with calmly, the text would be made even better. But somehow you want to accept the bill in one reading. What's the rush you're in?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U17	Thank you, good Eiki! I guess we're gonna start repeating the questions we had up last week. That question, too, if I'm not mistaken, has been questioned a few times. But since the question is, let's go over it. What is interesting is that if drafts are adopted with a short period of time, it is criticised that, listen, the procedure of the draft must start earlier. And if you start working on the bill earlier, they'll say, "Hey, there's a lot of time why you're working on it right now." Perhaps, if you sum up your question, I think today is a very good time to deal with this draft, given that this is about 2013. These are monetary policy decisions and the 2013 budget will not be dealt with by local governments in 2013, but in 2012. Both local governments and the state need to get a clear picture. On the one hand, it is necessary to know what costs will come to the state in the future, so that I constantly emphasise, constantly compensate. On the other hand, the municipality becomes aware of the state in which it should meet 2013. So I think this is a very good time to process this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U18	Marika Tuus, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U19	Thank you. The chair said that the debate on this item will continue where we left off last week. But while you're looking at the tabloids, it started like it did again. We had all the speeches fixed. Well, as I understand it, we should still be restoring the old tabloids right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U20	Thank you. I'm sure it's a procedural question. As I said, we missed this debate last week. I must apologise for not saying at the outset that there was a technical problem during the transition to today's agenda, why the order of callers cannot be restored, as was the case last Thursday. At this point, however, I can see that, in the round of questions, the computer is able to compile the calculation of whether a question has already been asked last week and, if so, the second question. I fully agree that there is a technical question here, but as far as I am concerned, unfortunately it cannot be resolved. Please, Marika Tuus, the second procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U21	Thank you. We didn't know that, and we saw the calls being repressed. For me, for example, it would have meant that I was taking my call off. Consequently, the current situation is still completely misleading and our options are decreasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U22	Yes, I can only say that my sincere apologies and, in the future, we will try to resolve these issues through our technical services. I completely admit that this is a problem, and in my experience it has never been before. Imre Sooäär, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Please specify whether this means that those who have already asked two questions at the reading of this draft last week will have the opportunity to ask two questions again today. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U24	Thank you. No, you didn't get it right. I was just explaining that the round of questions fixes the number in front of the person asking for it. If, for example, he has asked a question last week and press "Word" again this week, his name will be number two. I've been tracking it, and that's right, the computer's fixing it. So, within this item on the agenda, as I said, a maximum of two questions can be asked. Marika Tuus, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U25	Thank you. Would my speech in this case come up with a number two if I pressed again?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U26	Thank you. As you can see, it's not, it's only number one. Thank you! I don't see any more procedural questions right now. If there are any, I would kindly ask you to present them as well. I'm sorry again! It is bad that this situation has now arisen for technical reasons. Let's keep going. I need a microphone for the Olga Stranger. He missed a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have already mentioned this draft exemption from the tax on the land of Tallinn in good words a few times today. But please tell me, do you have any intel on whether your group in the Tallinn Council intends to support the draft if it is on the agenda of the council meeting tomorrow? Do you communicate with each other, the IRL Group of the Riigikogu and the IRL Group of the Tallinn Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U28	Thank you. No, our politics won't change like that in days. We do not have the kind of political culture that the Centre Party has in this case, which at one point says that land tax should not be abolished, and then a little while later says that we are actually going to lose the land tax. Regardless of the reasons you lose land tax in Tallinn, this is in any case very good. For years now, we have had this view that land tax should be lost. In this context, the IRL and Reform Party also came up with changes that gave additional opportunities in connection with land tax a few years ago. The three Estonian municipalities used the possibility of losing land tax. Our political vision has been one and clear over the years. We're not wind flags that change their vision. I think there will be a final answer to the other side of the question. The local politicians of our party will certainly read the decision of the council and, if any comments are needed, they will certainly be made. Where no comments are required, they shall not be made. I'm afraid I haven't read the council decision project so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U29	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U30	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The Centre Party has never really opposed the abolition of land tax, but the Centre Party has not liked the process of processing this law. You claim that you are not populists, calling as homeowners only those who have an individual house or a farm and who have a plot underneath it. Home is also an apartment for some people. Therefore, if you really want to help homeowners, it would be much easier to lower the VAT on homeowners, for example. But here's my question: in today's Eesti Päevaleht, Jüri Adams has made a devastating assessment of your bill. To me, this man is one of the symbols of Estonian statehood. If one of the symbols of statehood says that this law is populist and is not well thought out, how will you comment as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U31	Thank you. On your question, there were quite a number of questions and several arguments. I'm trying to answer them all with strength. First of all, you say that the Centre Party has never opposed the abolition of land tax. Let's start with that, and I'll finally get to your other questions. I mean, your party's statements show something else. I quoted them last time, and I take the responsibility of telling myself once again that people do not get the wrong idea. You have clearly opposed the abolition of land tax. On 22 May 2009, the chairman of your party has made it very clear that he does not intend to lose land tax, and most of the Tallinns will understand why he is not planning. Previously, in 2008, he has said that land tax should not be abolished, and also later, in 2010, when Harku Municipality adopted a decision on this matter, he expressed his real disbelief, even reaching the point of intimidation that it is likely that Harku will re-establish land tax after the elections half a year. These statements make it very clear that your desire to lose land tax has never really been sincere. When it comes to different opinions, each person has different examples. I could quote to you today the opinion of a number of organisations on this matter, starting with the taxpayers' association and ending with the central association of owners, the association of housing associations, etc. Behind these alliances, especially behind the Central Association of Owners and the Association of Housing Associations, there are dozens and hundreds, if not thousands of members, who have made it very clear that for many the land tax is too much, and what is worse is that we are creating a land tax situation where a person is forced to leave his home.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U32	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I welcome your efforts to answer the questions thoroughly and to be broad on this issue. My question is: which municipalities have you met? Have you met both smaller and larger? What has been their opinion on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U34	Thank you. That's a good question. There are over 200 local governments in Estonia and not only in the case of this draft, but also in the case of other drafts concerning certain interest groups, it is always reasonable to meet. It would certainly be very difficult to meet individuals at the level or at the level of individual groups. This is why they are often concentrated in interest groups and, in this case, it was the Association of Estonian Cities and Estonian Rural Governments, where local governments are actually concentrated. The meeting took place with them on 6 June and they also gave their opinion on this particular draft. I brought it out last Tuesday, but I can go over it. The questions were raised by the revenue base, which we have also talked about several times in this Chamber. In the case of the explanatory memorandum, the need for clarification was mentioned so that they would like to know more about what the explanatory memorandum meant by one thing or another. It was also asked whether a specific draft was based on a person- or plot-centred approach. There were administrative and procedural issues above, how the state would administer it, etc. Yes, we met with all local government associations and central organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U35	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When we discussed the same issue in this Chamber last week, you did not yet know how or with what mechanism there would be to compensate the municipalities. Now the weekend is missed, and the weekend is a very, very long time in the procedure for this draft. Perhaps you've had time to discuss and clarify things. My question is, how will the municipalities be compensated? The Prime Minister has spoken about increasing the share of income tax to be paid to municipalities. Jürgen Ligi's view has been that why not raise the outstanding funds to the municipalities, for example, to the Equalisation Fund and to compensate through it. Or is there some sort of third, direct mechanism for compensating municipalities, and is it a one-off compensation or is it going to continue year after year? Perhaps today you can answer how the loss of income will be compensated for by local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U37	Thank you, my good colleague. You have highlighted quite a number of ways in which local authorities can be compensated for the loss of income in 2013. I would say to you, first of all, let's make it clear what the real cost is. Remember, last week I told you that it might not be EUR 17 million, but much less. There have also been talks of 14 and 13, and even 10 million euros have gone through. In fact, this will become clear at the moment when the draft has actually entered into force and final calculations have been made. Compared to the previous one, I now also have statistics on land tax for different rural municipalities. If they are clear, the Government of the Republic will have the task of compensating for it. I think the most important thing is that the Government of the Republic, or the Coalition, has clearly stated that it is going to compensate and continue to compensate. I think that is the most important thing, because in fact, voters appreciate whether you keep your word or do not. I think what's being said from this remote control, and the Prime Minister's assurances, too, should be acceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U38	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will continue on the same subject and ask the following question. If you are talking about setting up a compensation mechanism for local authorities, first of all, the state or government must know with certainty what this compensation will be for. Are you going to raise taxes again or will the compensation take place in the same way as you compensated for a reduction in the share of personal income tax, i.e. that local authorities were no longer obliged to support either youth work or sport? Can we speculate that the next compensation will be at the expense of school food?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U40	Thank you. Can't speculate like that, I'll tell you briefly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U41	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U42	Thank you, good manager. You have been able to calculate how much local governments lose when implementing this bill. We also heard that there is no real answer to how compensation is made yet. However, what I would ask is this: since you have, at least in the minds of the initiators, been able to define the word 'home', how many euros per year could one of the Estonian Homes Act be won in the middle?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U43	Thank you, that's a good question! These are statistical indicators. I asked Statistics Department to do this analysis, and I have it on my desk today. Statistics said that they have not included land tax in housing costs. Remember, Evgeny Ossinovski asked last week what percentage of the cost of housing was the tax on the land under home from this potentially 50 euros. They have not included this in the housing costs, but they have examined it as a separate issue in the household budget surveys. So they have all the information. In 2010, 61% of households had paid land tax within 12 months, with an average tax of EUR 41.21 per year. This is where we find out what the cost is. That's the average, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U44	A procedural question, Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U45	Thank you. Good manager! Returning to the order of the questions, I recall that last week during the debate on this issue Aivar Riisalu spoke in the Chamber. This is also confirmed by the verbatim of the Riigikogu, where Sven Sester responds to him. I quote the verbatim: "Mr Riisalu, thank you very much! " So Mr. Riisalu has spoken last week. Maybe he didn't turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U46	Thank you. I believe it was a procedural question at the time. But if you insist on a serious investigation, we can also initiate it in the course of this sitting and listen to all the parties involved. That's not what you want. Let's keep going. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U47	Dear Mr. Sester! In general, I don't mind if the answer I get doesn't appeal to me. However, I ask that there be some elementary logic in this answer. We have had a discussion, the authors of the draft have admitted this, and in the Commission we know that this text that we have ahead of us today will not solve the question of EUR 17 million in which to compensate for the outstanding money that the municipalities will receive. The last answer you had was this: we are quick to accept so that the municipalities can be clear. My question was why we quickly adopt a law in which the municipalities have no clarity. Your answer was, but we'll take him, then they'll have clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U48	Thank you. I understand the question has ended. Good Eiki, frankly, I didn't understand your question, even though you are asking for a second time. I don't know if finding out 1.5 years earlier is early or late. Let us not forget that today we are dealing with drafts, especially tax-political drafts, which either take away or impose obligations on different groups of society, are people, local authorities or the state. For example, changes in income tax, such as excise duties on tobacco, such as specially labelled fuel, etc. A number of these items will enter into force later than 2015. Yes, tobacco indeed 2013, certain changes in income tax will enter into force in 2015. I think that as early as possible clarity is needed in tax policy decisions. That's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U49	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! In one of your answers, you said that compensation for municipalities may not be EUR 17 million, which may be lower. Can we read from this answer that the coalition will certainly reduce the revenue to be compensated for by the municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U51	No, that's not how you read it. You're on the wrong path. The initiators of the draft act have made it very clear that it will be compensated to the extent that the income from the tax on the land under home is reduced. What has been said is that overheads are basically reviewed. It is expected that the whole land tax that goes to the loss of Estonia will be looked at, not by the "municipal" approach. This amount will certainly not be reduced. If this amount falls from 17 to 14 million, it will decrease because it is simply 14 million for a given example. If it's 14, 14 million will be compensated, 17 million will be compensated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U52	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Unlike you, I don't take the Prime Minister's words as gold. From recent history, we remember that in a short time he has also changed his views very radically in the past. I'm still asking about this compensation mechanism. Would it not be wise and logical for it to be developed before the law is passed, so that local governments have confidence in this matter? Secondly, is the reason why it has not been developed, in fact, that you do not intend to develop a compensation mechanism? You let the law be passed calmly, it's been a few years, and then you say it wasn't really part of the plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U54	Thank you. You know, I don't know what kind of ruse and crutches you have in mind when you ask those questions. I'm based on the fact that you have only good will. In this hall or, more specifically, in the hallway, one of the middle partymen whispered to me at some point in my ear that, you know, Sven, the real purpose of our stalling is only so that we can accept this bill early in the city council on Thursday than in this hall. Maybe when you ask questions, you really have that goal, I don't know. The fact is, coming back to your question, that it has been very clear today: it will be compensated. The amount of tax on the land under home, whatever it is, will be definitively determined once the draft has been adopted, will be compensated. To be honest, I believe the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. I don't see why you shouldn't believe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U55	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U56	Dear waitress, We proposed that the reading of the draft law be interrupted in order to make an amendment which clearly provides for a compensation mechanism. I've been talking to several coalition ambassadors since Thursday about what it looks like. It has been said that the share of income tax will be increased. It has been said that the equalisation fund will be increased. It has been said that every local government-based scheme is made. In fact, every member of your party and reform party is talking about a different version. There is no compensation mechanism. Why don't you interrupt reading the bill, develop a clear compensation mechanism that will give the municipalities the assurance that they will not be deceived, as has been done before, and we will go on with this law in the autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U57	Thank you. Good Kadri, are you even listening to what's being answered? Why am I asking that? You're gonna ask a third question that's been a minute or two ago. That's why I'm just gonna have to ask you back what your problem is. If you say you don't believe in today's coalition and you don't believe in today's Republic Government, I understand that. But I believe that voters will actually give an answer to this once the compensation mechanisms have been developed. Then the voters will give the answer, and with your leverage, it will be very clear whether or not the promise was fulfilled. If the promise is not honoured, then you will speak. So, frankly, I don't see a big problem here. It would be worse if we were working on a draft today, which would have come into force in 2012, perhaps a year earlier. Worse, it would be because there would be a very short period of time, from state administration to final clarity in the relations between local authorities and the state. I think this is the right time and time to deal with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U58	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U59	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have been browsing the European Charter of Local Government over and over again, and I have seen that the local government and the state should be partners, at least that is what European thinking says. From the current discussion, I understand that local authorities can give their opinion when the law is ripe, locked, and no members of the Riigikogu, much less representatives of local government can then no longer really influence or influence anything. Do you think this approach is in line with the spirit of the European Charter for Local Government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U60	Thank you. Your question was wrong for me. You stated that local authorities could not contribute in the context of this draft. I would argue that before the second reading at the Commission, we had an appointment with representatives of local authorities, i.e. before the amendments were voted on in committee. So because of your claim, I can no longer answer that question. I assure you once again that the local authorities could all give their opinion. I have also spoken in this Chamber about quite a number of fears, recitals and also about the issues that the representatives of the local authorities have said at this meeting. I'm not gonna go over it. I have tried to give you a relatively thorough answer so far, but at some point the time should come when I say, look at my earlier responses from the verbatim. But right now, I'm still trying to give you a thorough answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U61	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I read the bill and the explanatory memorandum, and the explanatory memorandum contains a chapter on children's rich families and people with disabilities. It describes the unbearably difficult life of child-rich families, says that a fifth does not have hot water, a fifth does not have a water toilet, and 10% does not even have a sewer, and that the narrow circumstances had forced them to postpone their children. It then turns out that the land tax also prevents them from acquiring better, larger housing. But there is nothing in the law that families with a child's wealth can also turn to the local government body, on the basis of pensioners and a repressive statement, to grant them a tax exemption. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U63	Thank you for this question. Today's coalition has been very clear in its view that 1500 square metres in the case of dense settlements and 2 hectares in the case of diffuse settlements, all Estonian homeowners, regardless of whether they are from families with children, are retired, repressed or belong to other social groups. Now to discuss whether in the future, in addition to 1,500 square metres, for example, 1,500 or 3,000 square metres, this is a good idea. I think we could discuss this subject further, for example, in the autumn, why not? Let us come back to this point and talk about it. No law is set in stone. I think that's a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U64	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good Sven! I think it is clear to all ambassadors that the IRL has made this promise and the Reform Party has come with it. You have decided to adopt this law. But why do we ask so much? Let's ask because we don't understand one thing: why are you in such a hurry? As far as I have heard, many have asked this question, but there is no answer to why this is happening. I don't know if Eiki Nestor's question is the same as mine. I don't know if it's a good question or not, or you just can't explain it to us, or we're with such a small IQ that we don't make it clear. Tell me, why do we want to accept it so quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U66	Thank you, good Lembit! Knowing and knowing you, you're definitely not with a little IQ. On the contrary, it is a highly capable politician. I would like to say one thing quickly: I think that this draft, which bears a clear ideological vision in the form of the release of homeowners from land tax, is certainly not just IRL's, but our good coalition partner, the Reform Party, has already supported it. I would like to remind you that in 2009 changes to the land tax were adopted, with the support of both the IRL and the Reform Party, which enabled local authorities to start exempting their own owners from the land tax. In this sense, I certainly do not want to harm our coalition partners. However, it is clear that the IRL has had a very clear position on this, and I very much hope that this draft will also be dealt with in practice and adopted as a law. I'm coming back now to the rush you started. I stress once again, repetition is the mother of wisdom: today's coalition is of the opinion that I think we could make it a tradition that tax policy decisions are taken at least one year before the entry into force of a specific tax policy decision. I think it could be a good tradition. It hasn't worked out every time, I understand, but why not continue this handwriting in the future? It can also be seen that the current ruling coalition is already dealing with various tax policy decisions, which will enter into force in 2013, but also in 2015, so that all parties have a clearer agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U67	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Government of the Republic has given its opinion on this bill and here is also a letter signed by Jürgen Ligi, our future Governor of Eesti Pank. The Government of the Republic is of the opinion that the exemption from the tax on housing land reduces the autonomy of the income base of local governments, which is also one of the things valued in the current coalition agreement. The Government of the Republic also mentions that this draft law runs counter to the recommendations of the OECD and the IMF, which recommend an increase in the share of land tax in tax receipts. As Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, how do you comment on this contradiction with the IMF and OECD recommendations?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U69	Thank you. Now I don't understand if you quoted a letter from the Ministry of Finance or any other document. I've got this letter from the Treasury Department. They don't say anything about the IMF. But I can tell you what this letter from the Ministry of Finance is saying, which conveys the opinion of the Government of the Republic. It says that at the meeting on 26 May 2011, the Government of the Republic decided to support the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax initiated by the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which bears the number 51, very clearly to support! Some constructive comments have also been made, and on the basis of these comments, changes have been made to date which do not change their content.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U70	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U71	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question from a slightly different area. It has been discussed here for a long time whether this is a move to Tallinn or not, and if you have not spoken about it, your coalition partners have even said that this is the case. On the other hand, land tax is a very important source of income for rural areas and rural municipalities, and we know that it will be lost to nearly EUR 17 million. However, as a resident of Nõmme and an ambassador of Nõmme, I know very well that several residents of Nõmme, for example, have a plot in Hiiumaa or South Estonia and are registered in Southern Estonia where they pay income tax. If he now has to choose where to obtain the tax exemption for the land he owns, he will definitely choose Tallinn. Doesn't it seem to you that, despite everything, with the so-called Kalevipoeg sword Tallinn actually wins and rural areas lose double? On the one hand, the land tax will be abolished; Tallinn has said that it can do this and will lose it a year earlier. On the other hand, everyone who can choose to live in Tallinn, because it brings them the highest income in person, is the most useful for the wallet.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U72	Good old Nõmme district parent! Now you are a member of the Riigikogu, and that means you are thinking about the entire Estonian people. We're not just thinking about Tallinn. And when you come back to your district, you want to think about this part of the city, which is very sensible, because there are your voters, I believe that today your constituents will look at you and expect this bill to become a law. There's nothing more to add. If you think that maybe people will change their check-in, I will say once again that if one municipality has a birth grant of, for example, 5000 or even 10000 kroons, then hardly all pregnant women will go and sign in to this municipality before giving birth. I believe that is not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U73	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! We know that Tallinn will introduce new tax rules from 1 January 2012, and this step, I understand, will receive praise in this hall. My question has to do with this. How does the chairman of the committee think that it is possible that the draft law, which we are discussing for a long time, will not enter into force in 2013, but a year earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U75	Thank you. No, we are of the opinion that tax policy decisions must be made in a prudent and well-argued way, and this has made a clear decision to enforce this law in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U76	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Good Sven! I listened very carefully to your answer to my previous question, but there were more questions for me. You were talking about the coalition's tax policy. Tomorrow we are discussing a special preferential tax of EUR 60 million per year, which must start from the beginning of next year, and today we are discussing a tax of 17 million, which must enter into force the next year. Why don't we do this calmly in September? We interrupt, as Kadri said, and as many others have said, we do properly, we calculate everything and say what for. Still don't understand, talk again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U78	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I think at some point that I really have to say: look up all my answers in the verbatim. I think we're at a very good pace right now. All the visions that have been in connection with this draft have been very clear. It must be acknowledged that the Centre Party presented its vision, and the Social Democrats probably did not. Everyone has been involved in the decision-making process. If you have a feeling and a desire to change anything else in the autumn, please be nice and give your proposals to the procedure through a potential draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U79	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U80	Thank you very much. Honourable answer! I don't think I'm asking about the reasons for the rush, because you've answered all the questions thoroughly, patiently. In this sense, I think you are pleasantly different from many other respondents whose answers do not encourage the dialogue to continue, you are an exception in that sense. Here's my question. We have now spoken quite loudly of 17 million, and your revelations show that perhaps this figure is even more beautiful than the cost of, say, 10 million. Once again, we believe, according to our efforts, that this 17 million is too small an offer, because by abolishing land tax, local authorities are forced to raise a large number of other taxes. Have you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, we have already talked about this. I say once again: do not crawl in the capital, nor do you indulge behind it, to raise the other land tax to 2.5%. It is very clear that local authorities will be compensated for the loss of revenue in 2013. There's no point in getting behind this! It has been said here that they are forced to increase the land tax or any other taxes in view of the fact that the land tax will no longer be collected in 2013. You don't have to get behind this! It is very clear: yes, it is compensated. These tax increases, which you want to do in local governments through your representatives, have nothing to do with this, even though you maliciously associate them with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U82	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U83	Thank you. I listened very well and thought along when you answered my question. I have a simple marginal remark that, as a moor, I naturally welcome, on the one hand, the abolition of land tax within 1,500 square metres. On the other hand, I also recall very large accounts relating to the removal of snow and everything else. And all the more reason for my previous question was that I am worried about Estonia as a whole. If you're saying that pregnant women don't sign up to another municipality, this is a temporary process that ends when the pregnancy is over and the child is born. However, this Land Tax Act will remain, if we do not start discussing it here, as you have repeatedly stated, again in the autumn, perhaps for years, and as a result, everyone can really choose the municipality where he wins the most because of the land tax, so that he will sign in to Tallinn and the rural areas will lose even more. So on the contrary, I am not speaking here as an elder in the district of Nõmme, but as a member of the Riigikogu who is aching for the heart over the whole of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U84	Thank you. You didn't have a question, so I don't have anything to answer. You expressed your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U85	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U86	Thank you. In your previous reply, you said that those who are now going to raise the land tax will certainly not be compensated for this rise if the land tax later disappears. Here is the question: what will happen to those who do not have this tax at all now, and at what point will it be fixed? Let me get this straight. For example, Harku, who was a pioneer here, is not compensated for anything at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U87	Thank you. This question, too, sounded from the floor last week, but for the sake of clarity, I repeat that. It is true that today's coalition is in this position, and the Prime Minister of the Republic has also said so. I quote: "We certainly should not punish those local authorities who have already abolished the tax on their land. And we certainly should not reward the local government, for example, which has cascated 20000, 30000 or 50000 kroons of land tax per year. " He has given an example of Tallinn. "If we were to compensate for this land tax of $50,000 or even $20,000, we would admit that it is fair and that the state will now assume this obligation. We're not going to do that. " It has also been the clear position of the coalition that the entire cost incurred by local authorities in the context of the abolition of land tax in 2013 will be taken as a basis and will be returned to local authorities upon the arrival of this financial year. So the whole cost will still be taken as a basis and cannot go along with potential speculators who want to exponentially raise the land tax in 2012.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U88	Thank you. The draft, which has not yet been adopted as a law, contains a very clear implementing provision (paragraph 8), which states: "The exemption referred to in subsection 1 of this section shall apply from 1 January of the year following that in which the exemption is granted. Where the basis for the exemption arises on 1 January, the exemption shall be granted on the same day. " I think it's all about when this land tax exemption can be obtained.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U89	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U90	Thank you. Good question. On this subject, the authors of the draft have discussed and the date has not been set in such a way that it is 1 September or 30 November, not to mention the time. The time and date have not been set, but the initiators see that it would be good for the compensation mechanism to be developed not in 2012, but already in this year, 2011. Then the bill would also bear the principle that the tax policy decision should be known in advance of the year. The initiators of the draft act encourage the adoption of the draft and the Government of the Republic to work immediately so that, where possible, the amount of expenditure and the compensation mechanism can be clearly identified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U91	Honourable performer, I say thank you. Thank you for your answers and your presentation. No further questions. Dear colleagues, now I have a question for you. During the implementation of this meeting, his fellow Member, Ms Tuus, asked several procedural questions as to how the callers had registered at the end of the previous session. I said we couldn't restore that line of speech because there's a technical malfunction. A staff member of the Registry has spoken to him, and both acknowledge that he was the first to speak in the round of negotiations last time. True, we cannot restore the wishes of more people, nor can we restore theirs; it is simply on the basis of talk. My question to you is, do you see that this would be a problem if he got this chance, or do we go ahead with the order at the moment? Is someone protesting about this? Okay, thank you, Valdo Randpere! I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, Since the question of why coalition partners rush into this draft has been asked very many times here, I would not stop at it for a very long time, but rather try to concentrate on the question of why do you want to delay the procedure of this draft very much? I want to offer you a possible and relatively probable theory here. The central party city government decided last week to change the arrangements for the exemption from land tax and land tax in Tallinn. The land tax rate was increased because... I quote: 'The purpose of this draft regulation is to create financial opportunities for fulfilling the obligations arising from the City's Statute. Due to the reduction of the revenue base of local governments by the state and the abolition of part of local taxes (boat and sales tax 2012), which has significantly reduced the ability of local governments to maintain the balance of their budgets, Tallinn City Government will submit a draft regulation to the Tallinn City Council, which will change the tax rate in force in Tallinn from 1 January 2012.' I would first like to draw your attention to the reference to the boat tax, which was abolished and which, I quote again, 'has significantly reduced the ability of municipalities to maintain the balance of their budgets'. This year, 68000 Estonian kroons, i.e. just over 4,000 euros, will be received by the city from the boat tax. This is about as much as the monthly salary of the most recent associate of the ECOC Foundation. Basically, you need to save a one-month salary for one dissident in order to maintain the balance of the entire city's budget and not raise the land tax in Tallinn by 66%. That's exactly what you're up to right now! Typically, you take Tallinn with one hand, you give it back a little, and this other hand gives homeowners the tax exemption for the land under home. But as I said, the Tallinn city fathers didn't forget themselves. The increase in the rate of land tax and the exemption of homeowners from land tax have been rehabilitated by the city peeling 2.4 million euros more on land tax after the release of homeowners than is currently the case for all land tax. I am not quite sure whether all those who have spoken here will actually understand that Tallinn is actually raising the land tax due with one hand from 2012 by 66% before the exemption and by 11% of the total amount after the exemption. This is where we come to the real reasons for delaying the Centre Party. I can't help but get the impression that all the stretching is going on to extort more compensation for the country's land. This year the city will receive a land tax of 6.9 million euros from the land under its home country. In 2012, the new rate is estimated to be EUR 11.6 million from Tallinn's home owners. That's the money we're playing for! Tallinn wants to fix the new tax rates at the council this Thursday and in any case before the Riigikogu adopts the draft exemption for the land under home. Tallinn hopes that if the council confirms the new tax rates first, the state will compensate them for 11.5 million euros and not 6.9, which they are robbing their residents of today. Along with this 2.4, which is planned for a surplus, we are talking about EUR 7 million. I take it by hand they seem to be the same lawyers who once cobbled up that boat tax. These are the same ones that have now advised the government this time. I just want to remind you that from the boat tax, you were going to take 10 million kroons into the city treasury. It turned into 68,000 crowns. I can not even predict to you, but promise that you will not receive this EUR 11.5 million. And if you've really been kidding about this money, maybe you'll declare your action complete and let the Riigikogu continue its work, because I don't think the Riigikogu's idea is to help the Centre Party solve its poor finances. As far as the Snots are concerned, this time you have been dragged into this action by your big brother, taking advantage of your simplicity. You're still dreaming of real estate tax, and I don't think you realize that you've actually been put in front of the middle party's dress cart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U93	Thank you! Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Aadu Must! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to address both the draft we are dealing with and the problems of the Riigikogu itself. Schveyk, a world-famous figure, once thought that there was another earth hidden inside our small world, far greater than what we see. As we all see here in the Riigikogu, there is something much bigger and grander, namely the problems of democracy in local governments and even civil society, behind our bill to regulate the taxation of the land under our home. According to the spirit of the European Charter for Local Government, the local government and the state are partners, guaranteed by a sufficient income base independent of the whim of the central government. The politicians of the government coalition are willing to speak kindly about European values, but words are one, deeds are others. The most important and permanent axis of the debate in the Riigikogu, as you all well know, is the distribution of the tasks and funds of the state and local governments. Over and over again, coalition politicians report the speech chair of the Riigikogu or, for example, on the award of some kind of grants: they cannot be determined because the local governments that mediate them are going to be using the money elsewhere. We constantly see this in committees with serious syndrome or inferiority complex with regard to local authorities. Moreover, we also hear from this speech chair how, for example, the honourable Prime Minister states that the city of Tallinn, acting within the limits of the law, robs and takes homes from people. Ladies and gentlemen, As long as the legislator fails to do so, in the end, to determine unambiguously the boundary between the tasks of the local government and those of the state, which is currently very much at the mercy of the moods and whims of the majority in Parliament, we will not be able to work normally. So far, our Riigikogu is like a three-legged dog, with two more paws sick, and as a result, its running step is lousy. In Parliament's case, this comparison means that we cannot adopt important laws or work normally as long as the functions and finances of local governments and the state are not clearly defined. It does not help if a municipality that is hungry for resources tries to use one or the other of the instruments allowed by law. The law under discussion in the current version will take us further than this objective and will ultimately reduce Parliament's capacity to do so. Of course, it is also amplified by the fact that some good colleagues sitting in separate rows from the window have mouse syndrome. I am unfortunately thinking of the previous speaker who left the hall, the person elected to the Riigikogu from Võru, Valga and Põlva County, who spoke only about Tallinn's affairs. What does this cat and mouse syndrome mean? This means that for a mouse, the highest level of independence is when it does something contrary to what a cat does. Or a cat. Because he just doesn't have an animal bigger than a cat and more powerful than a cat. In our context, as we often see here, the role of the cat is the Tallinn City Government and the mice are the brave people who dare to speak against it. I would also like to stress that there has not been a meeting of the Tallinn City Council to discuss Tallinn's affairs only. I have been thinking about how the work of our current Riigikogu will look in the future, say, from the perspective of historians. You know, ladies and gentlemen, this seems rather poor, powerless, two-faced. In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, we saw legal help being done under the name of political technologies. The drafts, which were legally like the JOKK, tried to solve some electoral problems, for example, under the name of the Gender Equality Act. It's pretty weepy and embarrassing. The current law is also an unfortunate option. This is a weak, poorly prepared draft, the adoption of which will certainly compromise our Parliament and make us look like weak legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U95	Thank you! I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U96	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, We're having a debate here for several days. Its content is basically reflected in the words that not to believe the Government of the Republic is, of course, unpatriotic, but it is simply foolish to believe it, because it all comes down to whether there is a compensation mechanism or not. I'd like to get some fresh air into this subject and talk about something else. Two additional audits by the National Audit Office were heard last week, in particular, last Monday in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, one of which provided very interesting material for thinking. What had the National Audit Office done? He had taken out random data concerning 85 new buildings in nine rural municipalities, six of which are somewhere near Tallinn and three in the vicinity of Tartu. And it turns out that 85 buildings, a new house built in one shorter history period, 48 have no building permit. This means that more than 50% of new buildings in these municipalities are illegal. If there is no building permit, this automatically means that there is no authorisation. This means that the people who live in these houses - all these houses are inhabited - have no legal right to do so. Of course, it can be said that the bureaucracy of the state is too strong and could give in, but in fact, the public authorities that monitor this activity do not make any concessions to the local authorities. However, if the building is not authorised, it is very possible that the requirements relating to fire safety and the like are not met. Maybe living in these houses could just be dangerous for the people who do it. These houses are illegal, but the municipalities still register people at these addresses, because they bring their income tax with them. When the Commission asked why this is being done, why nothing is being checked, it is that many things are being done for a friend. Well, how do you refuse to register a man in your village, all the more so as the tax already mentioned comes on. All the more so as you can register on a property, you don't really need a building for that. And now there's this paradoxical situation where people living in illegal buildings come in for tax exemptions and get it. This means that the figures I mentioned for the tax exemption, these are quite serious figures, too, will become lawbreakers. The National Audit Office was told how to get out of such a situation. There's gotta be some kind of mechanism that's gonna block these violations. And frankly, this draft Land Tax Act seemed to be here at a very good time, because it is the easiest way to prevent these violations. A clause must be put in place to make it possible for land tax exemptions to be granted only to those whose buildings are located on the property to be home; we are always told about the release of homeowners, not landowners, are legally registered, have a right of use, etc. I talked about this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs because I see no reason why we should delay it. We have an audit, where the figures are, we have a draft law amending the land tax. We can quite quickly, I mean, within weeks, start taking steps to change this situation. I was told that the law doesn't deal with this kind of thing. I don't think so. I think that if we can do something better, specifically, if we can change the situation where there is an infringement, then we must do it. Any honest citizen, let alone a member of the Riigikogu, must always seek such situations and seek solutions to them. The originator did not agree to deal with this, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs this idea was not supported, and I therefore have a rather personal attitude to this bill. If he is not good enough to prevent offences that could be committed quite easily, he is not fit for anything at all. I have to say, these conversations in this Chamber are giving rise to a lot of personal thoughts. You start thinking about your housing company, reminding me how much you pay for land tax, and you can see it doesn't even pay, because the land tax is so small that there's nothing to pay there, it's just not taken. But if you recall how much you pay for heat, it turns out that every 12th crown, 8% is what I pay because the IRL and Reform Party raised the warm VAT at the time, to 18% at the beginning and then to 20%. These are not comparable things. It is clear that, if there is no compensation mechanism at this point, I will return to the beginning, it is unlikely to occur. I think it's unpopular to be in this situation...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U97	Good waitress, your time to speak is over by now. Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U98	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, So today we are discussing the next draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax, this time under the heading "Law on the amendment of land tax exempting homeowners from land tax." It is completely incomprehensible why the debate on this draft law begins with a second reading. It does not seem familiar that such a text has been discussed at first reading. With some totally incomprehensible stubbornness and consistency, the drafters, or initiators, are trying to make it clear that this draft has been discussed in this Chamber last week and now the second reading of SE 51. It is also very difficult to find something in common in these two texts when we examine the most attentively. Bring the first draft of misrepresentation, it's not like there's a lot of it. There were four or five lines of text, there are slightly more than one page, but there is no text in the first draft, not to mention different titles. However, a particularly careful study can also find something in common: both should be in force as a law on 1 January 2013, both seem to have the same authors and vassals supporting the same authors. The debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs also had serious doubts as to whether it was still the same draft, because no sentence of the previous draft had been retained, except for the date of its entry into force. According to good practice, if the text has changed between two readings more than 1/3, the reading should be interrupted and honourable members of the Riigikogu should be given the opportunity to propose amendments. After all, they see this text for the first time, and there are certainly good ideas to make it even better. All the more so, the new text is 100% in this case. As foreseen by the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, there was a vote on the committee, which resulted in a close but firm vote of 6: 5 after those members of the committee who are likely to have a better memory and who firmly remembered that they have seen and read this text somewhere, and it is very familiar. The five below, including those who appeared here, were forced to admit that, despite their efforts, they did not in any way identify the image of this text in their grey brain cells. But since they were a minority, I guess they have to admit they're lost and their gray brain cells have failed them. But you don't have to take it so hard, you know? We should be used to it. In this Chamber we can constantly experience that a minority has a special quality to come up with if not very stupid, then practically unusable drafts and thoughts in real life. At the same time, they often fail to understand most of the flying thoughts and ideas and tend to argue against them, and worse still, they feel that the changes that they are making are ruining things. "Hirm comes when you think about what would happen to the Estonian state if there were no smart, far-sighted and mission-sensitive majority. " As you can see, this was the last sentence in quotes, unfortunately. However, according to the majority, this is still the same law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax that we read in this Chamber last Tuesday of the week, only the difference between the fact that now all the deficiencies are remedied and the draft is worth adopting. Let's take a closer look. Interestingly, the possibility of not exempting a citizen from the land tax for the purpose of renting out his home with the aim of earning income, which is to make more than once if he/she pays the land tax, we still release it. I was constantly troubled by the question of why such pressure and dropping. Quite unexpectedly, I found the answer last Wednesday, 8 June, in Delfi, when it turned out that one third of the IRL Group's leading politicians had proud properties in Tallinn's Old Town and downtown, where there is certainly a decent land tax. A summary of the article is very convincing, and I would like to say this: "No member of the IRL Parliament or minister owns real estate in Lasnamäe, Mustamäe or Õismäe, or in areas where most of the Tallinn people live. The inhabitants of Tallinn mountains do not complain about the land tax." As a result of the above, it can be assumed that, under no circumstances would it be advisable to take into account the rental income derived from the ownership, it would be a rather solid rental income because one person, according to Delfi, has several properties. After the law has been passed, they will certainly become homes of different family members. Turns out the story of caring for homeowners is just lyrics, fighting for personal mammon. Since the city of Tallinn has understood your deep concern and freed you from this tax, perhaps it would no longer be worth leaving the rest of Estonia's municipalities without a tax base, because, as you can see, the mechanism for compensating the loss of income of local governments has still not been introduced. This confirms once again: it is not intended to be compensated. In recent years, the government has cheated on several occasions, reducing the compensation fund, reducing tea money, reducing youth sports and kindergartens' money. We have no reason to believe that the Reform Party and the IRL will behave differently this time. If the deficit of the income base reduced by land tax is intended to be compensated, it would also be included in the text of the draft law. Unfortunately, it is feared that if the bill is adopted with the current text, roads will not be repaired in Estonia, and municipalities and cities will have to save at the expense of children and those in need. Any member of the Riigikogu who hurts the heart for his own region must resist this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U99	Thank you very much. Speaking chair next, Rannar Vassilyev, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U100	Ladies and gentlemen, As I always do here, I'm starting again with praise. This time we can congratulate the good officials who work in our ministries, especially the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Environment. Because this amendment, which has formally been brought before us by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is much more meaningful, much more legally correct and, here, much more linguistically similar to the Estonian language than the first draft that was tabled. In fact, most of the technical problems that were in the previous draft or, let us say, submitted have also been solved, which have been repeatedly brought to the attention of the Chamber, and which has also been pointed out by our Minister for Finance. They are more or less finished, and thank you very much to all our officials! However, there are still a number of serious problems and I would like to tell you a little bit about them. Firstly, the problem of parliamentary democracy. In particular, if we had before us a draft that consisted of about seven lines, and we have an amendment that consists of about 40 lines and which leaves one implementing provision, or one line, to the original text, it is very difficult to consider this text as an amendment and not a new draft. Today we are in a situation where the members of the Riigikogu are in fact unable to make proposals for this draft, just as the political groups do not have this opportunity. So we are here today to choose whether or not to say yes, without the possibility of proposing amendments that should actually be possible for each Member. The second issue, which is still in the air at first reading, has already been touched on, but it has not been resolved by today, is the issue of funding for local authorities. By the time the Committee on Monetary Affairs held a debate involving various stakeholders, including representatives of local government associations, neither the Committee on Monetary Affairs nor the initiators of the draft, nor the government, in fact, had any good idea of how this compensation could be organised. However, it was confirmed that this compensation would come. When the Prime Minister was in front of us in Question Time the week before last, he answered the question, which is the basis for compensating for the fact that compensation will be made on the basis of the income lost by the municipalities. A week later, when he was sitting in front of us last week, he announced that the basis was not to lose income but to increase the percentage of personal income tax received by municipalities. In other words, in a week, there was a rather cardinal, fundamental change in this regard, which shows that no one had at the time of submitting the draft and I think that there is still no very precise or firm understanding of the form in which the municipality receives lost income from the Treasury. Actually, it's a pretty fundamental question. It is certainly easy to compensate the municipalities for 17 or 14 or 10 million euros, just as this amount must be exactly, and no greater concern than that, money has been given from the Treasury and it can be declared that the municipalities have received money. However, it may pose serious problems for specific municipalities. So it would be nice if, before progress can be made in this process, we could see the coming municipal "compensation" coming up. The idea has been put forward that an increase of 11.4% of today's income tax receipts to 11.724% could be made in order to compensate. It may even be proportionate to today's tax receipts and people's wages, but unfortunately it is still without any empirical examples or empirical insights. Since this review has not been submitted to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I see potential problems here. Especially in the case of those municipalities where there is no high-rise buildings, but there is low-rise buildings where the plots are larger or, in other words, people's population density is lower. In the last ten years, i.e. since 2001, when the last regular land valuation took place, people's incomes increased at a lower rate than on average in Estonia. In other words, it is municipalities that are currently in a very difficult financial situation and are unable to carry out their tasks. In other words, with this approach, compensating for personal income tax, we will potentially increase further peripheralisation in Estonia. Nor has an analysis of possible movements resulting from the tax exemption for residential land been provided. Is it possible to present it accurately, but at least we could discuss it. It is likely that, with a view to registering, the movement of less developed regions to the more advanced ones will take place in exactly the same way. It is simply rational because there is a higher price for land and therefore a higher tax on residential land and, ultimately, a greater victory. People move from less developed regions to more advanced ones in terms of the register and, as we know, the income tax of a natural person moves in exactly the same way as the register. So from a regional policy point of view, this does not promise a very significant improvement in the situation of Estonian municipalities. As mentioned, it further weakens the sovereignty of Estonian governments. In other words, the only way in which local governments can control the revenue side of their budgets is to disappear. As a result, unfortunately, the Social Democrats see no alternative but to put forward a proposal to interrupt second reading. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, to ensure a democratic decision-making process here, as it should be. Secondly, so that we can then discuss the problems of local authorities in greater depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U101	Thank you. I'm asking for Deniss Borodichi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U102	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Land Tax Act was announced on 16 May, was accepted into Riigikogu proceedings on 17 May, the first reading took place on 31 May and 1 June and the deadline for the amendment was 3 June. The revised text of officials was discussed in the Committee on Finance on 7 June and today the second reading of the draft is taking place. Thus, less than a month has passed since the draft was launched. Where is the government coalition in such a hurry with this bill? The year 2013 is still behind the mountains! When I first saw this bill, I couldn't believe my eyes. At first, I thought it was a matter for a young member of the Riigikogu. But also seeing my older colleagues roll their eyes out of wonder, I realized that there is no such breakdown every day in the Riigikogu, and the composition of the XII Riigikogu is witnessing a historic event where such a draft slag has been processed. Such a bill should not have been accepted into Riigikogu proceedings at all. They say there are two heads, but it didn't apply to this bill. The draft is an initiative of two parties to the government coalition, resulting in a political novel in one section. The title of the Delfi article "Who will save the IRL from land tax, ordinary people or himself?" It's like a fist in the eyehole. We have always heard from the government coalition that any support systems must be needs-based. The exemption from the tax on domestic land is also granted to those who do not actually need State support. The Ministry of Finance has stressed on several occasions: grants must be needs-based, not the same for all. Do members of the Riigikogu really need exemption from land tax? I don't think so. I'm sure IRL members can pay their own land tax, and if they can't, then there's always a way to move to a smaller apartment. A person does not have to live in an apartment of 200 m2. Everyone likes to cut land tax, but it is only beneficial for the individual in the short term. Today, a person will be released from land tax, but tomorrow another school or bus route will be closed. The less people pay taxes, the less they get services from the state. Land tax is a state tax that is collected to the full by the municipalities. Consequently, the abolition of the land tax reduces the income of local governments and thus the coalition distributes tax incentives for local government money. What's so wrong with giving presents! I promise, I will, but you pay. It would be like going to the store, putting a basket full of good and better, and then having someone else pay for their purchases in the register. Nor does the draft provide any assurance that the reduction in revenue will be compensated for by the municipalities. In the explanatory memorandum, we find that the impact of the amendment on local budgets is estimated by the Ministry of Finance to be approximately EUR 17 million, which according to the initiators of the draft is to be covered by the state budget. Yes, this is already a step forward in comparison with the explanatory memorandum of the initiators of the draft, which stated in one sentence that the draft does not involve state budget expenditure or revenue, and some sentences were later written again that the negative impact of the draft would be covered by state budget resources. The Centre Party Group has tabled an amendment seeking to write an obligation to introduce a compensation mechanism in the Land Tax Act. Unfortunately, this was not supported by coalition politicians in the Commission. What can I conclude from this? Consequently, the reduction in revenues is not intended to compensate local authorities. An extension of speaking time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U103	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U104	It would therefore have been fair to write a draft explanatory memorandum that the implementation of the Act does not involve direct State budget expenditure or revenue, as the reduction of the budget revenue of local government units is not compensated by the state budget. It would have been clearer to everyone. The Minister of Finance gave this draft a very critical position. I quote: "On the other hand, the exemption from land tax on the land occupied weakens the autonomy of the income base of local governments, which is also one of the values of the current coalition agreement. I also point out that this is not in line with the OECD or IMF recommendations to increase the share of land tax in tax receipts. " End of quote. I would really like to make a deep bow to the Minister for Finance that he has finally begun to stand up for the financial autonomy of local governments. Like they say, better late than never. Of course, there is no good without bad or bad without good. It is a pleasure that coalition politicians have finally realised that home expenses need to be reduced. But, as we know, home expenses are not only a land tax, but also electricity, water, roomies. In May, the Central Party Group issued a draft to reduce the excise duty on electricity to the EU's minimum rate of EUR 1. Currently, the current electricity excise duty exceeds the EU minimum by more than four times and is reflected in the electricity bill of each home owner. The Centre Party Group has also initiated a very good draft, which will contain the cost of heating the homeowners' room by reducing the cost of VAT. These drafts are litmus paper, which shows that the party cares about homeowners. I hope that IRL will also definitely support the processing of these drafts in this very hall and we will be able to protect all Estonian homeowners. At present, the state, with its tax and excise policies, encourages the high home costs of homeowners, and this is not only abnormal but also immoral. As far as water bills are concerned, paraphrased "Spring": when the Centre Party came to power in Tallinn, IRL Vee had already parsed the Tallinn Water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U105	Thank you. I'll have Rainer Vakra next.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U106	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Everything that has been said in this Chamber today and, in fact, already last week, is interesting to listen to, but as a resident of Tallinn, I still cannot understand where we are. Are we discussing Tallinn, state or why not Nõmme district? Having asked Sven Sester many times, I would like to congratulate him here, because he stated, at least in words, that the purpose of this draft is not to make Tallinn aware that this draft does not concern the capital alone. But when we listened, for example, to Mr Randpere, the ambassador of Võru, Valga and Põlva County, he spoke only of Tallinn in his speech, and it really makes me misunderstanding. I think it's very simple: if we're in primary classes, we're talking about primary classes, when we're in middle school, we're doing equations with two unknowns, when we're in high school, we're studying trigonometry, and at university we're doing science. We do not discuss the questions of the Riigikogu in the Nõmme administration, we do not discuss Tallinn in the Riigikogu and vice versa. It still seems to me that there are people in this Chamber who do not understand it, who want to talk about the first-class subjects themselves while doing science in this Chamber. But for God's sake, everyone has the chance. Last week there was a tour of the Riigikogu and I asked them what they thought about losing the land tax. I think that if you put one question in this way, you will never find anyone who thinks that it is not good to lose a few taxes, that it is not good for him. He's gonna win the money with it. I think that all the ideas of tax reduction sound nice and undoubtedly like the people. In fact, when you look at it, you try to talk about Tallinn the same way. I am refraining from talking about Tallinn here today, even though Tallinn has made its decision, and I am happy about it as a moor. It has also been discussed at length that if Tallinn gets canalized, the land tax could be revised. At the same time, I am seriously concerned when we are talking here about the various possibilities of compensating for this money, which is close to EUR 17 million, later on to the municipalities. It must be understood that if the city of Tallinn is able to make such tax relief decisions based on its size, this tax is an important source of income for many rural municipalities. I wonder, indeed, whether the good ambassadors have forgotten just a few months ago the snowfalls that have been several metres high and the requests for help from both rural municipalities and city representatives to the state: be good men, come and help to push the snow, because there is simply no resources. There's not enough money for snow cleaning to get people out of their backyard. Money is not known to grow on trees, and if we write 17 million in chimneys, it doesn't mean we don't have to earn that money again from anywhere else or take its place. Every family in Estonia knows this, and I think that's what a fifth-grade student knows, who has a monthly cost of 100 euros, that if he takes 10 euros out of it, he has to find a) a way to save it or b) how to earn it back later. It seems to me that today such a basic truth has been completely forgotten and no answers will be found. By the way, when the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi answered our questions in this remote control yesterday, I think it was after seven o'clock, but he was already tired too, he finally said out in answer to Mr Tamme's question: I agree with you that in theory, the 300 million kroons that, due to the exemption of the land under home, will not be collected by the state, or the municipalities, can be seen as a possible increase in teachers' salaries. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U107	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U108	This may indeed have been due to such a late-night hour or to the wish of the Minister of Finance to conclude the questions, but he argued that it could also be viewed indirectly as an increase in the salaries of teachers, policemen or rescuers. At least there are people who understand who can count and think economically that if you take money away from somewhere, it doesn't come in its place. The second thing we talked about for a long time, and we also asked the bill waitress good Sven Sester, concerned the question of Tallinn and the possible signing-in. I checked the verbatim. Indeed, Sven Sester repeatedly cited the fact that he is absolutely convinced of this claim personally, of course, very much disliked that if someone is pregnant, then because of the birth grant, he will not choose the municipality where he will receive more money for it. I believe that there really is no need to explain in this Chamber that this is a temporary process, usually with a positive end, and that there is no more money from the municipality at one point. Whether it is a school grant, which is a one-off, maternity allowance, whatever the name it is in the municipality. However, if we are talking about the tax exemption of the land under home and, for example, residents who own a property in Tallinn as well as in many other parts of Estonia and who have paid their taxes to a small municipality, for example, so far, of course, everyone can make mathematical calculations and see how much he saves when he writes in the city of Tallinn. In this respect, I say that the calculations of Tallinn's draft do indeed show that next year Tallinn's tax base should improve significantly, because people will make their choice by seeing that it will be a significant saving if they sign up to the capital. This, in turn, leads to a further deterioration of the tax base for rural areas, small municipalities, small towns. It should be accounted for as almost 8000 10,000 landowners. In a way, it's not much. The other way around, if you look at the bill, it's important. If we give an example of Nõmme, I believe that many of today's rural municipality leaders, the rural municipality budget, are very happy that the person living in Nõmme, earning very well and paying large income tax, pays a large part of it to his parish. But at the moment when a person sees that he's gonna have the biggest savings when he signs into Nõmme, he's gonna do it, of course. Finally. You see, it has been claimed that there was no land tax during the first republic, and everyone lived very well. Let me give you a good example of the city of Nõmme. In the city of Nõmme, this meant that each plot owner kept his road in winter and the street road clean to the middle axle. Maybe then, taking away their money from the municipalities and cities...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U109	Good waitress, your time for the performance is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U111	I'm gonna ask for a speech chair next for Neeme the Great! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U112	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, For a fresh member of the Riigikogu, the experience of the work of the Riigikogu is rather strange. It's one thing to read something in the newspaper. To actually watch everything is another thing. Now I'm gonna sit here on the first bench and stare at the war between Toompea and downtown. I have been involved in the management of local government for 15 years of my medium-term working life and have prepared a local government budget each year. That is why I would be talking right now about the revenue base and financial autonomy of the municipalities. All those who have drawn up a municipal budget know that land tax is planned and personal income tax is forecast. Land tax is, in principle, an important guarantor of the financial autonomy of the local government. Land tax is a stable source of income, as the amount of land tax does not change as quickly as the number of people who have entered the municipality changes. Land tax does not change as the number of inhabitants of local governments decreases. The municipality has the opportunity to grant a land tax concession, and the local government has the possibility to change the rate of land tax. These are all direct examples of the financial autonomy of the municipality. As a substitute, the Prime Minister has offered, for example, an increase in the percentage of personal income tax. The percentage of income tax collected from individuals is not a stable indicator for local governments. This can be taken into account by the municipality the size of Tallinn, but I recall that our average municipality size is not 300000 or 400000 or 100000 people, but two and a half thousand people. There, the income from each individual and individual income tax has a significant impact on the municipal budget. And the most important thing about this is the regional political moment. The smaller the municipality, the more uncertain it is that personal income tax is collected into the municipality's budget. The smaller the municipality, the greater the share of land tax in the rural municipality's budget. The smaller the municipality, the larger the financial autonomy of the municipality is the land tax. At the moment, the coalition agreement also states that the coalition stands for increasing the financial autonomy of the municipalities. The OECD report recommends increasing the financial autonomy of the municipality. Speaking in good faith, I do not understand very well what Mr Sester said when he said that the reduction in land tax was based on an ideological vision. I can't figure out where this ideology comes from. The land tax on most of the Estonian homes does not represent a significant part of the cost of the home. If the coalition really wanted to support homeowners, it should instead deal with reducing the heating, electricity and water costs of homes. By the way, the next item on today's agenda is about, among other things, the reduction of the income tax credit on domestic loans. Let us ask how high the cost of home loans is and how much they represent of home expenses. The IRL agreement with the voters, which is currently being fulfilled, is a contract with the voters of Tallinn, and not with all voters, but especially those living in the garden districts. We have confirmed this once again from Mr Randper's speech. Let us consider Estonia as a whole. The implementation of this contract reduces the financial autonomy of local governments throughout Estonia, weakens local government status, weakens rural governments in particular and increases peripheralisation. This speech is given constructively and in complete good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U113	Thank you. Your question is devious in that sense that, no, it is not prohibited by law. On the contrary, this is the maximum permitted rate that can be applied. Today it has been implemented by 30 local governments out of 220, and there will be another one soon. No, of course it's not a crime. It is simply a question of these recitals. It is in recent days that the press has justified it so that we are forced to raise the land tax to 2.5%, because we are missing land tax from the land under the land. At this point, I just want to get this over with: the good people of Estonia who listen to this debate over the Internet, that is a lie. That's not really the case, because it's being compensated. This raising to 2.5% is permitted by law, but at this point a bit of incomprehensible action.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U114	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U115	Thank you. I'd leave those questions about what I'd do and how I'd choose for the eight minutes I'd come here on the remote. I feel like I may have gotten all my thoughts right now, but if I come here again, I'm gonna talk about my very clear thoughts, which you haven't understood so far, as it seems to me. I'd put away speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask my colleague Rainer Vakra to continue the question. Suppose you have several homes, one in Tallinn and others in other parts of Estonia. The exemption would apply to only one home under this bill and this would be known to be a bigger victory in Tallinn. Which place would you choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U117	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U118	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, The concept of a 2.5% land tax goes through the discussion repeatedly, and we find out that it is something very bad, it must not be. Is this allowed by law, or is it a law that is a crime?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U119	Thank you. I have one more question: at what point is it fixed that local authorities will be compensated for the loss of income?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U120	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! By the way, the explanatory memorandum to bill 51 states that Tallinn's home owners are being oppressed by a particularly large land tax, that Tallinn City Council exponentially raised the land tax in 2008 and that homeowners began to receive two and a half times the land tax bills, etc. It is quite real that before the third reading, Tallinn will change this situation and the land tax will be waived. In that case, do you agree to take those words out of the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U122	We are dealing with this draft anno Domini 2011 and at a time when the city of Tallinn has not taken any decisions. I hope he'll make that decision. So I don't see much point in changing the current law later, I hope that by then it will be a valid law, an explanatory letter. Right now, we're here with very correct information.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U123	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! My constituents are asking me to ask you this. The financial year is known to be a clear concept, the budget being drawn up once a year. But now, if a person changes his or her record half a year, will he or she have to pay the land tax in two places at once? Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U125	Thank you. Next for the speech chair, Urve Palo! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U126	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pity that there is so little interest in speeches on such an important subject on the part of the coalition. It's the right idea to spend home expenses on the ground. I believe that all people in Estonia would like to purchase their home at lower cost and later spend less on housing, whether for electricity, water or heating. But unfortunately, the words and actions of today's coalition do not match in any way. Over the past two years, the government has significantly increased the costs of acquiring and managing housing. For example, as a result of a 2% increase in VAT in July 2009, the cost of purchasing housing, building and acquiring furnishings increased accordingly. I did some calculations. For example, an apartment with a value of 64000 euros, or 1 million kroons in old money, can only buy a two-bedroom apartment in Tallinn, so the increase in VAT is almost 20,000 kroons, or 1280 euros more expensive. Building a three million house is 62000 kroons or 12800 euros more expensive. This includes the cost of furnishings, which is now 2% more expensive. At the same time, the land tax for apartment owners amounts to about EUR 10 herald15 per year and for house owners about EUR 100 herald 130, depending on the size of the land. It would take more than 100 years for the owners of the dwelling and for the owners of the house to make up for the extra cost of raising VAT at 2%. All of this is accompanied by utility payments, which have also increased by 2% everywhere. For example, in the case of an apartment, we can therefore talk about some 40 additional euros and, in the case of a house, at least 70 additional euros per year. I would remind you that the land tax exemption for owners of apartments only gives EUR 10 per year, but the 2% increase in public utility payments alone will add EUR 40. In addition, the government has also prematurely raised excise duties on fuel and electricity, resulting, for example, in electricity excise duties for private consumers at a rate of 4.5 times higher than is required by the European Union. It's all paid for by homeowners. So I have to say that the government, with the fingertips, gives homeowners the possibility to lose land tax, and it takes to their lap the increase in value added tax, the increase in excise duties on fuel and electricity. As a result, unfortunately, we cannot agree with our government that they are worried about how the people of Estonia will be able to acquire their own homes and pay utilities. However, it is not possible to improve their living conditions qualitatively with ten euros or one hundred euros saved a year as a result of the abolition of land tax. But that is the rhetoric of the government union when it comes to the causes of the abolition of land tax. Earth has become like a miracle weapon in curbing price increases. Last week's Question Time, the Minister for Agriculture, speaking of the government's possible steps in curbing food prices, called the abolition of land tax as a great help in improving the lives of our people. Let's do a little calculation. For example, if a family of three consumes 300 euros a month, which is 3600 euros a year, food alone costs 72 euros more per year due to a 2% increase in VAT. At the same time, 70% of Estonian residents live in apartments. Losing the property tax leaves about 10 euros more money to the family each year. However, food costs 72 euros more due to the increase in VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, who will answer in Question Time! I don't see much relief here! The government must also compensate the municipalities for the loss of land tax income, EUR 17 million. I'm asking, where's the money coming from? In the form of additional indirect taxes, as has been the case so far, or in the form of a deterioration or increase in the availability of public services? For example, Harku Municipality, which lost land tax last year, at the same time raised the kindergarten place tax, which led to a significant deterioration in the economic situation of families with children, as the income from the abolition of land tax was several times lower than the additional cost to the day-care centre. By the way, if the government really happens to have this EUR 17 million, or EUR 266 million, in the back pocket, I would recommend investing in the restoration of the government programme 'Every Child's Kindergarten Place'. With seventeen million euros a year, 15 new kindergartens could be built, thus creating 2,000 more kindergartens. I would remind you that there are currently some 4,000 kindergarten places in Estonia. Unfortunately, today's government coalition deals with populism instead of resolving substantive and important issues for the Estonian people and has fooled people in the last two years under the slogan "Home expenses below!" and, on the contrary, increased home expenses significantly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U127	Thank you very much. Call chair to Valeri Korb next, please. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U128	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We remember those times only a few years ago when people accepted the proposal to cut something completely calmly. It was difficult times, most people realized that life was getting harder all over the world, that in everyday life, either at home or at national level had to slow down a bit. But in the political landscape, the word "cut down" disappeared somehow a year ago. It was clear that there would soon be elections to the Riigikogu, our lives needed to be shown in pink tones, and that is what we did. This was seen in our acceptable laws, in newspapers, and in listening to a beautiful talk on radio or television. There was a feeling that worse times were over, but life shows that the process of cutting has not ended to this day. The limits of this process are expanding, and I think it's going even deeper. We recently discussed the law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels in this Chamber. My colleague, Kaljuvee, spoke about how the political parties that declare themselves to be business-friendly take billion kroons from companies in six sectors. This is about business. We have learned of the proposal made by the Minister for Defence, Mr Laar: he calls for the mobilisation of public officials and a 10% reduction in state administration costs. This may be a pretty good step in the eyes of voters, of course, but it is difficult to say whether it leads to the quality of the state's tasks. It is now the order of the local governments. Local authorities have not had any and I am convinced that there will be no local taxes for a long time. Advertising and authorisation to dig roads does not make much weather in a rural municipality or city budget when it comes to the budget. When it comes to land tax and the subject we are discussing in this big hall for the second day, I think that many local authorities are not happy with this bill. In view of today's economic situation, where the cart has increased and the income of the population has decreased, there are also homeowners with lower incomes, there are pensioners who really need to be exempted from land tax. Given today's circumstances, everyone must be treated equally, both residents and local authorities. As local authorities pay one-off social benefits to uninsured families from their budgets, it is natural that exemption from land tax would certainly help to improve the economic situation of these families. At the same time, the exemption of homeowners from land tax offers a greater chance of saving for the renovation of the dwelling. I would like to say that in rural municipalities, the share of land tax in the income of the local government budget amounted to 2.7% in 2007, 3.3% in 2008, 3.7% in 2009 and more than 4% in 2010. The share of land tax in the revenue of the budget is, of course, less than 1% in cities, but in today's under-financing of local government budgets, every source of income is very important. As regards the exemption of pensioners from the land tax, and also because those whose land tax is less than 50 kroons did not pay the land tax, Kohtla-Järve City lost a lot of Nõmme we are talking about here, but my calculations have been made for Kohtla-Järve, say EUR 2000. Land tax receipts have been repeatedly reduced by exempting pensioners from land tax on apartment property and by raising the limit of no land tax to EUR 5. As a result, the collection of land tax to local authorities has decreased over the last year. We remember that local governments have a tax rate of 0.1 to 2.5% of the price of the land, which is why the receipts vary between municipalities. We've talked a lot about Nõmme, but I'd like to come back to my lovely Kohla-Järve. I say that in 2007 the land tax was EUR 140000 in Kohtla-Järve, and in 2010 it was already EUR 180000. So in three years, the increase was EUR 40,000, which in difficult times is quite a lot of money for every city and municipality. When discussing the proposed draft law amending the Land Tax Act, there is one concern about the reduction of the income base of local governments. The exemption of privately owned land from the land tax in the city of 1500 square metres and in the land of 2000 square metres will lead to an increase in the welfare of a certain population group, but if local authorities are not compensated for the reduction in the income base, other groups of people who receive services from the municipality will lose. At present, there is not enough resources to provide public services, especially in rural municipalities. There has been a lot of talk about compensation, but I think we'll see what comes out of this compensation in 2013. Of course, the question arises as to what is the cost and how the reduction of land tax money in the municipal budget is compensated for. However, it is not appropriate to exempt from the land tax those owners who rent their residential land and receive income from it. The law brings a minus of EUR 17 million into the municipal budget. Therefore, a particular source and both the remote and the hall have been asked a lot, at which point this loss of income will be compensated to the municipalities for EUR 17 million. Ladies and gentlemen, The proverb says, before you cut, think seven times. Maybe it's time to think. In recent years, the government has defrauded local authorities on several occasions by reducing the compensation fund, reducing road savings, reducing money for youth sport and kindergartens. If the income base reduced by land tax is intended to be compensated, it should also be included in the text of the draft law. Unfortunately, it is feared that, if the text of the bill is adopted in its current form, there will be no repaired roads in Estonia and...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U129	Dear colleague, your time to speak is over. Thank you very much. Call chair Tarmo Tamme next, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U130	Very dear Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am just as embarrassed as my good colleague Neeme the Great, who has worked for a very long time as head of government. I'm gonna have a couple of years more of this experience, but the understanding of what happens in this room and how these things are handled is actually exactly the same. It is not me personally or our party who opposes the exemption from the land tax, but we are opposed to the way in which this matter is handled and the way in which this bill came into existence in this Chamber. In fact, there is a problem in Tallinn, in two parts of Tallinn, where historically some people have larger plots and have to pay an unfairly high land tax. I think that how to reduce the tax burden on these people could have been solved in a much simpler and more respectful way than to reform and extend the whole land tax law across Estonia. I want to talk about what really is the autonomy of local governments. The autonomy of local governments is that the elected community of local people decides for themselves what is done in the local government. But when I watch and listen to people who go to the speaker's desk, they talk a lot about the problems of Tallinn, the city of Tallinn. I have such a question that, if it is not possible to prevail at the local government level, whether the issues of local government should be resolved through the Riigikogu or the state. I do not think that this is a democratic or European practice. In municipal elections, people simply need to be offered solutions that they like, take power there and organise local life through it. Because if you think about it from here on out, some coalition ambassadors don't like the high country tax of Tallinn, the next thing you know, some ambassadors don't like the high kindergarten tax of some local government. So let the local governments decide for themselves on the ground and the Riigikogu should deal with the affairs of the state. And when it is said that there is a high country tax in Tallinn, and it is simply characterised by the fact that the tax was raised 2.5 times, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Land Tax Act does not have the term 'fold', the Land Tax Act has the term 'land tax rate from 0.5% to 2,5%', and the tax rate in Tallinn is 1,5%. Unfortunately, there is no talk about those municipalities that themselves are in power, such as Viimsi and Harku, where the cost of land taxation is 2.5%. I really enjoyed today's article by Mr Jüri Adams, published in the Eesti Päevaleht. I quote a few paragraphs from his article: "It is difficult to call all this something other than populism and cutting the umbilical cord between local authorities and people. The land tax, no matter how badly prescribed the law, is the only direct link between the local government unit and the people operating there... " Mr Adams has to be accepted, because if local people pay land tax, they will understand what they are paying for and what they will get in return for it. The services provided by local authorities to people who pay land tax are quite high, starting with street lighting, maintenance of infrastructure, winter snow control, etc., and are not at all limited. Now the question arises: if the land tax exemption becomes effective and this money is taken away from the local government... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U131	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U132	If local governments are taken away from land tax money, what gives them the assurance that they will get the money back? There have been quite a variety of statements here: it is not the responsibility of the state, perhaps we are compensating instead in such a way that each municipality receives a different formula, we are compensating for it either through income tax or through a compensatory fund. So for today, it's unclear to the local authorities. How, then, can local authorities continue to organise their lives if they do not know what awaits them? This is about the cost of the state budget, which is about 17 million kroons. I dare say that this cost is significantly higher than EEK 17 million in the state budget. Because many municipalities, not only Tallinn, had already raised the land tax to 2.5% of the tax price, and many municipalities also have many state lands, state forests and, for example, Tallinn has a lot of state property. So the cost of the state is going to be significantly higher than this EUR 17 million. I also point out that the OECD, the IMF and the Ministry of Finance have all clearly said that this tax must be maintained in this form. In Europe, the share of land tax or real estate tax in the budget is actually quite large and it is there because it is a fixed tax. I am also amazed at how lightly we allow foreign citizens who have acquired real estate in Estonia to move here calmly and not collect land tax from them. Should the citizens of Estonia, taxpayers of the Estonian state, pay the costs of this infrastructure for them together? It doesn't make any sense to me. It is also incomprehensible to me that, if 70% of apartment owners and 24% of all homeowners are exempt from land tax today, they will now jointly and severally pay this tax. Here's something to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U133	Thank you very much. Next, inara luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd start with the National Audit Office review. Namely finished s. In April 2009 the National Audit Office has an overview of the impact of revenue reductions on rural municipalities and cities, and the reference period is 2009-2010. It examined the changes that the economic crisis in recent years has brought about for their governments in general. The study clearly shows that the economic crisis of recent years and the decisions taken by the government departments on local governments have forced municipalities to make significant corrections and put the rural municipalities and city leaders before relatively difficult choices. Let us recall here how, with the additional budget made in 2009, the law changed so that the personal income tax rate was reduced from 11,93% to 11,4%. With this legislative amendment, local authorities were deprived of the obligation to support both sport and youth work. As of today, the National Audit Office concluded that 24 percent of local governments have shortened the nomenclature of voluntary services, most of the time supporting culture, sport and youth work has been abandoned. In addition, road and street conditions and street lighting have been the most affected by the reduction in management costs and investments. The costs of education and economic activity have fallen the most in absolute terms. To be willing, we must admit that such a result has not been achieved by accident, but is a targeted, targeted action of the current and previous coalition of government. Today we are processing the land tax exemption law for homeowners. As colleagues have already mentioned, no one opposes the content of this law to exempt homeowners from land tax and to have more money in their hands. However, there are ten dangers in this law, and in the long run, these dangers will be evident especially in the case of landowners. As a result of the land tax exemption for landowners, cities and municipalities lose their income base. If a person does not understand how the local government's income base works, he may ask what about it. But here is the first danger, because this is how not only sport and youth work, but also other activities necessary for the municipality, will not be financed. It is not at all certain whether local authorities will be able to contribute money to road maintenance in the future, and then it can be considered perfectly normal that the roads are stairs and dusty in the summer, while in the winter they have been slammed. There's no money on the grounds, but the state is spreading its hands and saying it's not the responsibility of the state. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has promised in this Chamber that the reduction in income resulting from this law will be compensated by an increase in the rate of personal income tax. And if it rises from 11.4% to 11.724%, as it has mentioned, then the Prime Minister should also know that he is already indebted to local authorities and the amount of this debt is not the percentage he has mentioned here, 0.324 but 0.53. If it restores this percentage, local authorities will again be able to support both sport and youth work. And if he returns this debt, then perhaps faith and hope will arise that future debts will also be repaid. In its current form, no one knows how and in what way this financial loss will be compensated for to local authorities, and since there is no explanation in the explanatory memorandum, there will therefore be no compensation. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U135	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U136	However, all this law has been turned out purposefully so that there is a great Tallinn, where money should be taken away from, and there are many secondary small municipalities from which money can still be taken away. During the processing of the Act, however, the scenario has actually changed and Tallinn has acted completely unpredictablely, creating a compensation mechanism for its home owners. As a result, we do not know how other local authorities are going to behave, whether the situation is being agreed, the services are being reduced, or whether the rate will also be increased. As compensation mechanisms are not set out in the explanatory memorandum, it can continue to be speculated that local governments' obligations in the same area will be reduced, or that the Government of the Republic may speculate on the desire to reduce school meals for students, to make such a legislative amendment. Of course, this law could be implemented in a much simpler way, so that local authorities send the necessary calculations to the Tax and Customs Board. The Tax and Customs Board, which receives Estonian kroon 32000 from the state to cover its activities, makes calculations and sends these calculations to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance, which calculates for each local government, sends funds directly to local governments and local governments compensate each homeowner for land tax on the basis of a declaration. It would be fair for the state to act, reducing administrative costs and not leaving the local authorities without a revenue base. This law must certainly retain the right to waive compensation. We have recently started to talk strongly about charity, and both members of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic have called for charity to help those who are in difficulties in the current situation. In the case of such a mechanism, I would like to give up compensation for the land tax, leaving my land tax to the local government, which is able to grant it to families of many children and to those who are in difficulties. Finally, I would like to mention that since the Government of the Republic has lately defrauded local authorities very severely and left them without a revenue base, we do not have the belief that the explanatory memorandum to this bill will be supplemented by the way compensation is set for local authorities and the way the income base of local authorities is maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U137	Thank you very much. Viktor Vassilyev next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U138	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill that has come before us is very beautiful in its current form, it looks great. All this has been so well described, the gift that is given to Estonian families, homeowners, that the happy Estonian family, where there is a good mother, a hardworking father and two young children, and the dog is happily humping around on the yard like Pedigree in the dog food ad. But this Estonian family also lives in the territory of a local government, and if we release the basis of homes from the land tax, it will, as we know, create a hole in the local government's budget. Which one, we do not know exactly, because this amount is only included in the draft explanatory memorandum, and it is also mentioned as an initial estimate of EUR 17 million. What he's really coming for, we don't know that. Nor has there been any mention of how, with which mechanism the municipal income base will be restored. There is quite a promise from the Prime Minister about this, but the Prime Minister has promised others. For example, they have promised to place Estonia among the five richest countries we are looking forward to. Fortunately, the current promise is not pre-election, but post-election promise, so I really want to believe it. Believe not in walking on water and other miracles, but in the fact that one day a mechanism will really be developed for the restoration of the municipal income base. Maybe it's happening, maybe it's not happening. If the Prime Minister does not fulfil his promise, it will be difficult and difficult for the local governments, too, for the good families who live in the territory of the municipality with an exemption from the land. However, if the Prime Minister keeps his promises and this mechanism is developed, it may become even more difficult, as this mechanism may mean that some source of income is found to the municipality or is compensated by the State. The country doesn't have that money in the back pocket. After all, state money is, in fact, taxpayers' money, so some mechanism is found to get it out of the tax money, and not only from those who received the exemption, but from everyone. Which means somebody got a tax exemption, but we're all gonna pay for it. Now there is a very interesting question: but who is going to win this thing, and who are we going to pay for it? Yes, the draft explanatory memorandum states that the situation in cities is particularly drastic and, of course, it means Tallinn in particular. For some reason, the draft does not specify that the tax burden is particularly heavy in Tallinn's Old Town, city centre, city centre, perhaps Toompea, Kadriorg, i.e. in those areas where the most expensive land is located. Now let's think a little bit about this average Estonian family with a good mommy, hardworking daddy, two kids, I'm sorry, according to statistics, actually one and a half babies, but it doesn't look pretty, let's have two pets. Why, then, do they have to push to live where the most expensive real estate in Estonia is? And what's so bad about taxing the most expensive real estate? I think it could be even bigger than the current 1.5% (in Tallinn it is 1.5%). Yeah, there's been a suspicion here that the land tax forces families to leave their homes, forces them to find something else. But if it is true that the average Estonian family has happened to live somewhere in Toompea... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U139	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U140	If, indeed, they are unfortunately caught up in a pile of property that they cannot hold in the course of a property reform, they could be signalled and the market must function. In my opinion, this market is located in Estonia, so it kills and has all kinds of real estate at all costs. Please, anyone can buy what they can pay for. But then consider that housing expenses are not a land tax. By the way, land tax is on average only 8% of housing expenditure. But all the rest of them are roomoe, electricity, which is being twisted over and over, VAT and excise duties are still coming up, and of course, loans. These loans, which people took completely recklessly because it was a trend, were promoted. You have to live in your own home! You must have a taller house than the neighbor! You must have several floors! Get a good loan from a good bank! And people took on a burden before the massacre in such a way that the repayments made up the wages of both adult family members. I don't know what they were thinking. People who work in local governments know very well those families who are in a situation where the house is forced to sell, where the price is twice as low as bank loans. The house was sold, the debt was still on and there wasn't even money to rent a small apartment in Lasnamäe. Such things would be avoided by an orderly and decent real estate market, which still has expensive prices, expensive land parcels, exclusive real estate, and it is of course not necessary to push there unless you have an exclusive income. For example, I wouldn't dare buy some old town property because I don't know what my financial future is. However, Estonia's property reform has gone down the road that once apartments were privatized for some kind of coupons, years of service or whatever they were, a gift was given to everyone. It wasn't, yeah, it wasn't forced, but yet the trend in society was such that you had to be the owner, only the owner is a good person. The tenant is some kind of stuck-up person, he's not popular. After all, half the people in the rest of the world live in a rental dwelling and like to live in a rental apartment, because if a good owner has several apartment buildings, he keeps them up, cares, keeps them in order, pays land tax, the tenant just pays him rent and the whole story. I don't like this apartment, it's going somewhere else. You know, you can talk about this for a long, long time, but the bill is raw. I would also propose that families with children receive an advantage when they apply, but this opportunity was practically taken away from us. That's not good enough! I don't like this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U141	Thank you very much. We have received a proposal from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We're preparing for the voting procedure. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U142	Thank you, manager. I ask for nine minutes before the vote, in terms of constructiveity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U143	Nine minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U144	Good fellows! I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please vote! 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal. The proposal was therefore not supported and we will continue the negotiations. Please, Aivar Riisalu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U145	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that I have now been led to a limit beyond which there is no further road. It is totally unbearable to have different tax changes trying to hunt different electoral groups, such as field fishing with a shotgun and where colleagues from the Riigikogu have not realised that in the meantime they have been elected to the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia instead of the Tallinn City Council, and it is not very reasonable to give the speech of the council here. I don't know where I live. I don't understand why I live. And I don't understand why I can't live with my wife anymore. Now, in order to make full use of the tax exemption, I must separate myself from my wife, because perhaps there will be a tax officer who will monitor the implementation of the land tax law and make sure that we live in different places. Maybe the IRS will set up a day's watch around my houses. Look, I'm frustrated that we've gone off the road where we're playing with taxes like the last pimps. It is not reasonable to play with taxes, it concerns the Centre Party, but it also concerns the Reform Party, it concerns the Social Democrats, but it also concerns the Fatherland Union. As a citizen, it is no longer possible to understand what tax rates have applied to you when you wake up in the morning. The record I remember was to change VAT at one and a half weeks' notice. The voters of the Republic of Estonia, failing to understand that the value added tax they leave at the store counter as the final consumer in the Treasury is not a very reasonable tax, because it hits everyone with one stick. VAT is equally paid by people like me, and VAT is paid by people who do a little less well in the same way. The people voted in favour of such processes. The people felt that it was perfectly normal to notify a considerable tax change one and a half weeks in advance. Today we are talking, for example, about abolishing fuel labelling. Has anyone bothered to calculate what this basically entails? Has anyone bothered to calculate that there are other people living outside Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Narva who are trying to start the tractor in the morning, who sell milk in the old money 4 kroons a litre, but oil will cost him 20 kroons a litre. To buy one litre of oil, he must milk five litres from the cow. You see, this is an abnormal situation! And we're happy. We're happy because this stupid voter doesn't realize that we're totally randomly putting a rope on him. Now we're talking about this land tax. I will also throw the stone in my party's cabbage yard, because today I am speaking here as a private person, today the Group is not speaking. It is already known in Tallinn that Valdo Randpere, a member of the City Council, made it very clear how much the citizen of Tallinn will pay more land tax. I can't believe he can count within ten without making mistakes. Very good level! In the same way, the Reform Party knows very clearly that the state has to review the rates of taxation of the land from time to time. They understand very clearly that 2001 was the last time these assessments were made. The time is ripe to reevaluate the land, and as a result, no one today knows what will actually happen to the land tax. But we're doing business here. All of a sudden we get from Nõmme to Reinsalu, and what was the name of that other boy isn't here in the Riigikogu right now, it's probably somewhere more than 5,000 voters! Listen, darlings, it's actually kind of absurd that, frankly, I'm gonna have to cry. And like the tragedy of today, it's such a day that it is a very sad day. What's going on is not normal. I will tell you honestly and directly that it will soon be impossible to be rich in this country, because the poor will no longer be able to raise money for the rich. I wonder if thinking will work differently, even among the supporters of so-called successful parties? I went to a school reunion last weekend. The brother barely stood up, the washing machine had seen his clothes, I don't know how many months ago, but he said: I vote for the Reform Party because they promise me a beautiful life. This is our status today. Such genocide cannot last indefinitely. One day, this little nation will have to be free. You have to get free and realize that groups play with him, play as they please. Six brothers decide who will lead Estonia as president for the next 15 years. Knock it off! Come to your senses! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U146	Thank you very much. Next, please speak to Peter Võsa! We have three minutes until the end of the trial.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a procedural question. If Peter Võsa had planned several days in advance that he wanted to give a speech longer than three minutes, what would it look like in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act? Will he be halfway through his speech today if he can start over the next time this question is discussed again or if he has to go back to where he left off?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U148	Thank you. Peter Võsa has the right to speak for five minutes until the end of his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U149	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm glad to see that you've taken the trouble of listening to my speech before the hall was pretty empty. I want to address you, honourable coalition and also opposition representatives! I will, of course, address you first of all, but I also want to address all the ministers, all the officials and not just them, and I want to address all the people of Estonia. So be citizens or dear guests here, dear guests here for too long. I turn to all of you and ask you, why do all our dreams of a beautiful life disappear like the early morning fog from the shores of the swamp lake or like Christmas dwarves after a long party from the windowsills? Everyone believes in happiness and its possibility, but only the number of persons can be part of it. I ask all of you: do you know why Estonia will never be among the five most prosperous European countries? Why are about a quarter of our children constantly starving, why are the mouths of adults rotting because of dental disease, and we cannot give them dental support to improve our health? Why are our salaries and pensions as small as rabbit punks? Why are shortcomings in the rescue area, medicine, law enforcement constantly revealed? Why are we not able to provide free school food for all students? Why is the state of health of our sons so that our defence forces must constantly complain about it? Why do our daughters and women not want to give birth to us and our lives are constantly falling, why are we not able to change this situation? Why do Estonians go from home to work and live abroad on a massive basis, forever? And finally, why are our people doomed to die quietly in their endless torments and to disappear into the black memory pit of history? Why? But for that reason, honourable fellow Members, at least to me as a fresh member of the Riigikogu, it seems that the main steam goes to each other here. The struggle between the state and Tallinn's land tax leads to another blow for rural and small municipalities, reducing their financial autonomy and their ability to cope with problems at local level. As long as the same trend continues in this Chamber, the decline of our people and our country will continue. As long as there continues to be a fight between us in this Chamber and the people's ability to cope is not being dealt with, we will all be honoured, as well as doomed in the long term, unfortunately in the long term. In connection with this, I have a modest request for all of you: please leave the Estonian people alive! Think of those who have chosen you here! More statesmanship, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-14_U150	Thank you so much for Peter Võsa! The trial is closed for today. We'll pick up where we left off tomorrow. Have a nice day, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 1.03 p.m.
