ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu, Prime Minister and esteemed Excellencys! We will begin the Tuesday session of the eighth working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now is the time to hand over drafts and inquiries. I ask my colleague Karel Rüütel of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer an inquiry by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. This concerns the increase in domestic costs. In the near future, Estonia will face massive domestic cost-related price increases, driven by the opening of the electricity market in 2013, the European Union's CO2 quota trading system and the increasing demand for wood in energy production. The latter is most affected by growing wood burning in oil shale power plants, both in existing and new oil shale blocks. The ambitions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Eesti Energia are understandable because, from the perspective of the electricity market, this seems to be the cheapest way to achieve renewable electricity targets. As a result, we have some questions for the Minister concerning the mass use of chipping wood and what its indirect and direct impact may be on domestic consumers as well as on different industries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U3	Thank you. I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Here's the news. Firstly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered a member of the Estonian Reform Party as a member of the Terje Trei Group of the Riigikogu. Secondly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has approved, first, the departure of a member of the Riigikogu, Kalle Palling, as a member of the Environment Committee and membership of the Economic Committee, second, a member of the Committee on the Environment of Terje Trei, and third, a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs of Tõnis Kõiv, a member of the Riigikogu. On Wednesday 16 November, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 89 delegates registered as present, 12 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U4	We will go to today's agenda, where the first item is the Prime Minister's overview of the Government of the Republic's activities in the implementation of European Union policy. Let me brief you on how this point will be discussed. Firstly, the Prime Minister's review for up to 30 minutes, secondly, the presentation of the representative of the European Union Affairs Commission for up to 30 minutes, and then questions to the author and rapporteur. A member of the Riigikogu may ask both an oral question and, finally, negotiations may take place where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Let us now go to the first item on the agenda. This is an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in implementing European Union policy. I would like a presentation from Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U5	Honorable manager! Respectable Riigikogu! Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen! The new Riigikogu elected in spring and the Government of the Republic that took office after the elections have reached the debate on one of the most important national policies. I am pleased to give you an overview of the government's European Union policy. The document on this policy plans action for four years. Any planning begins with an assessment of the situation. What is the state of play of the European Union? What news do we now hear from Brussels and the capitals of the Member States? Last Thursday, European Commission Vice-President Olli Rehn said at a press conference in Brussels: 'I look forward to bringing you good news. " Indeed, for over a year now, Europe has seemed doomed. There's a crisis meeting that's after you. It doesn't seem like the end. What, then, is wrong with our Europe, which, a few years ago, seemed like a good old world? At first glance, it may seem that there is nothing wrong with it. The European Union is still the world's largest economic space operating according to uniform rules in terms of purchasing power. Public debt in the euro area remains lower than in the United States, not to mention Japan. The new Treaty of Lisbon has recently entered into force and will further strengthen the integration of the euro. But only an optimistic view would be superficial. There's plenty of repair and better work to do. The current debt crisis has exposed the European Union, the greatest weakness. Unlike candidate countries, the ability of the European Union as a whole to influence its Member States is often small or very slow. That is why some Member States have become like members of a convenience club with many rights but few obligations. And even less, there is control over these obligations. However, if their omissions were autonomous, the consequences of omissions are collective. And to tell you the truth, it's also the guilt that we ourselves called out evil by looking at the slides for a long time. The European Union itself thus acted as a comfort club for a long time. The aim is therefore clear: we must get the European Union out of this comfort zone. To this end, we must also increase the accountability of the Member States, strengthen the rules and strengthen the capacity of the Union and the euro area. This is, in short, the main objective of government policy in the European Union over the next four years. Ladies and gentlemen, Neither the European Union as a whole, nor the euro area, nor Estonia alone, can solve Greece's problems for Greece. The solution to Greece's problems is in the hands of the Greek Government and the Greek Parliament. This principle applies, of course, to all Member States, whether they need help now or not. For many, it seems that some of those in need themselves are not enough. Why should we help those who have lived in debt for a long time? I understand that people don't understand it, and sometimes they're frustrated. But anger is not a good advisor; Estonia should not try to punish anyone. Likewise, the long-term solution will not be helped by the joy of pity. The process of change can last for decades in some countries. There are no quick solutions to the problem of sovereign debt that has grown over the years. It is not in our political or economic interest to create new grey zones for the map of Europe. We have all seen that if Greece is doing badly, markets become nervous and other countries are under pressure. If Italy is doing badly, no one in Europe can get better. Quoting German Chancellor Angela Merkel: 'If things do not go well in Europe, things will not go well in Germany either. ' How much safer this sentence applies to Estonia! That is why, like my colleague, it remains to be said that the key to resolving the crisis is strength and unity. It's not in our best interest to stay out of sight when the house takes fire after the house. On the other hand, when Ireland is getting better, it is not just Portugal that breathes lightly, but the euro area as a whole. I hope we all think about it. Perhaps this will help to put our debate more on the wave of statesmanship when the government brings forward a draft law on the ratification of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and a draft proposal on the establishment of a European Stability Mechanism. Respectable Riigikogu! Europe's common strong action must ensure that our common institutions and rules do not allow yesterday's mistakes to pass on to tomorrow. Several important steps in this direction have already been taken: new frameworks for designing and monitoring Member States' budgets, a practically missing and now emerging early warning mechanism, more automatic and, if you wish, stricter intervention and penalty systems. However, these are only the first steps to strengthen the euro area decisively. The root cause of the debt crisis has been the long-term unsustainable fiscal policy of some countries. Living beyond power, lending too much. The budgetary policy options are currently clearly the responsibility of the Member States. The Union has no competence to intervene in decisions concerning health or social systems. Such a division of roles is broadly reasonable in the future. This is as long as the Member State keeps its home in order. However, in the future, the euro area cannot remain a spectator when irresponsible spending by individual Member States threatens the stability of everyone. If necessary, the Treaties must also be amended to avoid such a threat and to allow for intervention. The President of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, will give a preliminary overview of the needs and opportunities for change already at the December Council meeting. Contracts must not be changed with a light hand, but it cannot be taboo. If necessary, this should be done. It is clear that our preference for deepening cooperation and amending agreements is to move forward within the framework of the European Union as a whole, with all the Member States, because there are things that simply work 27 best, for example, in the internal market. At the same time, the inability of one country to go along with unintended changes should not prevent others from moving forward. A more integrated core, open to later accessions, does not mean a threat to Europe, but increases its strength. I'll take what I want, leave it in the integration logic. Here I stress the principle enshrined in the Treaty: the euro is the single currency of the European Union as a whole. The euro is a glue that keeps the economy and the internal market together and therefore Europe together. All countries, with the exception of the two exceptions, are bound to join it. Respectable Riigikogu! In strengthening economic and financial union, we must also bear in mind the internal market. Can't just deal with the fire. A single market that brings together 500 million consumers could create more economic growth, create more jobs and thereby increase national fiscal revenues. We need to develop both the functioning of the internal market and the market itself. I sent a letter to my colleagues before the October European Council, which outlined the possibilities for strengthening the internal market. Appropriate steps could include, for example, the use of more directly applicable legislation to regulate the internal market. This step would reduce European legal fragmentation in a situation where Member States transpose legislation guaranteeing market freedom in different volumes, in different ways and at a time, if any. This remains a major obstacle to the smooth functioning of the single market. The role of the European Commission in the supervision and implementation of the free movement of people, goods, capital and services of the four freedoms should also be enhanced, as well as the consideration of the four freedoms in lawmaking at both European and national and regional levels. Secondly, there is a need to deepen the internal market, to increase the freedom to provide cross-border services, including in particular in areas where opening up to free competition could lead to new growth, such as health services. But, of course, our special focus is on creating a digital single market, how this could be different for Estonia! I am glad that this idea we have initiated has reached the implementation phase. I hope that by the end of the term of office of this Riigikogu a new e-signature directive will enter into force, which will make cross-border digital identification a reality. In any case, the European Commission's promises provide a basis for this. This will open up several times more markets for procurement and e-services for businesses and consumers. Of course, the legal fragmentation of the internal market in the key areas of patent and copyright and contract law must be eliminated, if necessary in the form of enhanced cooperation. Structural rigidities in Member States' labour markets, etc., need to be limited and reduced. The focus of the government's attention will also be on the physical integration of Estonia with the internal market, infrastructure guaranteeing the flow of information and energy, land, sea and air connections to Europe. Rail Baltic is no longer a science fiction project, but a fast train connection that will soon become a reality. The government has already taken the first steps to implement this. Together with our colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania, we decided last Thursday in Tallinn that we would create a joint transnational company and start line spatial planning. We want construction to be financed from the next budgetary framework of the European Union, which covers the years 2014 to 2020. In the next budget period, Estonia will certainly remain a major beneficiary. This will continue to ensure that the necessary investments are made in order to increase competitiveness. The government seeks to eliminate the discriminatory cost ceiling for cohesion policy funds in budgetary negotiations and stands for more equal direct payments for agriculture. But in addition to the volume, the government also focuses on quality. The support received from taxpayers in the European Union must not be 'deserving money', but must be'smart money'. Of course, the government knows that very few things happen in the world by themselves. The current government does not have the illusion that all this just described will happen in itself. With you, respectable members of the Riigikogu, and also in consultation with the general public, a new framework of Estonian European Union policy for 2011-2015 is coming into being. I am pleased that the draft document received so much attention and that so many proposals were put forward to improve it. And I am very pleased that 181 proposals allowed the government to count 132 as a whole. Completing the document on these grounds will make the policy more broad-based, give the government more certainty, more protection, and more security in its activities. This policy document contains more than a hundred initiatives, draft directives or projects that Estonia wishes to influence and direct in the European Union. And while we are thinking about Estonia's interests, we are convinced that promoting these areas will also benefit Europe as a whole. We are not defending narrow special interests, rather we are trying to give impetus to the development of areas that will generate more growth and create more jobs across Europe or improve the security of the whole of Europe. Respectable Riigikogu! I return to the beginning of the report. We do not know when the debt crisis will end. This can't happen overnight. Nor do we know to what extent the euro area still needs to adopt measures to help countries in distress. But I can confidently assure you that if we act wisely, the euro area and the European Union will be stronger and will act as a less comfort club and a much more action club after the crisis has ended. Estonia has a role to play in this, and that is what our new European Union policy is for. It is a policy that strengthens Estonia's integration with a strong European Union and a strong euro area. It is a policy that improves Europe's competitiveness. It is a policy that makes Europe bigger in the world and Estonia together with Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U6	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your presentation. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U7	Thank you. Prime Minister! This is a really difficult time in Europe, and to set goals in such a situation requires a great deal of responsibility. At the same time, it is also somewhat dangerous. I never know how things are really going to develop in the wider picture. In your speech, you made it very clear that Estonia should prefer the 'core European development scenario' versus the 'European à la carte integration' or 'cooperation scenario'. This is probably based on the assumption that Estonia belongs to this core fish, among the leading countries. What do you think could be the three strong sides of Estonia that place us among the core states and, on the other hand, the three weak sides that could take us away from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U8	I would mention only one of the strengths of this is the will of our people. But please don't get me wrong! I am not talking about a two-speed Europe. The first preference for all of us should be to move forward with the 27 together and the speed of its progress should be much higher than it has been so far. However, on some issues, we cannot wait indefinitely for those who do not want to move forward or for whom progress is laborious. Therefore, in the new European Union policy, we do not exclude closer cooperation with those who want to move forward more quickly. Looking back at the development of the Estonian European Union policy, we had a certain protection position in the first stage, we will break through! We went to the European Union to prove ourselves. We were afraid that suddenly the European Union would hurt us. And that fear was well-founded, because we had only just been freed from one union, and many simple people asked why we now need this other union. We quickly embraced the European Union, and so the essence of our European Union policy became fruitful cooperation with our partners. But we considered it extremely important that we move together, all 27 together. Now we see that there is a reason to move faster from time to time if these slowest ones would like to move forward, and this is not a change of direction in our European Union policy, but a certain correction. We are more willing to cooperate with those who want to move forward faster. Of course, if there are any backwards, Estonia must under no circumstances remain among those who are lagging behind. We have to be among those who move fast. Plus, why we're faster on the move there, we have enough, and most of these pros are about finance. Our country's monetary policy has been responsible. After all, we know that over the course of the crisis, only two countries in the European Union have not been subject to excessive budget deficit procedures, the two countries are Sweden and Estonia. To date, we can say that public finances are also well in Luxembourg, Finland and Denmark, but, unfortunately, the vast majority of European Union and euro area countries are unable to abide by the rules agreed with the Stability and Growth Pact. We can. We consider this important, and I think that every person in Estonia now feels how important it has been for Estonia that we have managed to keep our public finances in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U9	Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U10	Thank you. Prime Minister! Thank you for your thorough presentation, and I also congratulate you on the accent you have put on the development of the European internal market. In the context of the presentations made at the beginning of the economic and financial crisis, we have talked about the danger for Europe of building protectionist barriers and falling protectionism. Your letter to your colleagues, where you draw attention to the possibilities for strengthening the internal market, is certainly a very important and proper undertaking. I wonder how fertile it has fallen. What response has it produced? Do we have any good allies in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U11	There are certainly good allies, and the soil has been very fruitful in the European Commission. But, unfortunately, if the biggest problem is the credit crisis in some countries, it is primarily being dealt with. The European Union as a whole is not in a crisis, but, unfortunately, all the time in Brussels, we are only solving the problems of the crisis and, in the long run, it will also tire the citizens of countries where there is little knowledge of the credit crisis. If we constantly bring only bad or very bad or slightly hopeful news about the regulation of the crisis from Brussels, then the people of the most devious countries of the European Union may also tire of this great cooperation. In the case of Estonia, we should never forget that we joined the European Union primarily for security policy reasons. Everyone in Estonia knows that the European Union is not NATO, it is not a defence organisation, but at the same time our people know that if the European Union project was ever started, it was primarily a project to prevent war. And our people very clearly remember the consequences of the last war. Therefore, the European Union, as a peace-building project, remains of paramount importance to Estonia. However, the European Union is also of the utmost importance to Estonia in economic terms. 70% of Estonian exports go to other countries of the European Union. And we know that the volume of exports in Estonia as compared to the volume of gross domestic product amounts to 70 to 80%. Thus, the Estonian economy is a typical economy of the exporting country and we are extremely interested in the smooth functioning of this large common market of 500 million consumers. Therefore, if we initiate any changes in the European Union in order to make the market even more open, barrier-free, we will act in the interests of the European Union as a whole, but of course it is also very clearly in Estonia's interests. I believe that my colleagues in the European Council are equally prepared to develop the European Union further, to make the European Union stronger. Unfortunately, we must recognise that for a while, crisis management measures remain the focus of the media, but the decision-makers in the Council naturally realise that the solution to the crisis in individual Member States is in the hands of their own parliaments and governments. These solutions cannot come from anywhere in Brussels, the Council or elsewhere, such as the G20 meetings. We can offer a solution by strengthening the European Union's single market, as well as providing temporary financial relief through loans, but the crisis as a solution in a particular Member State is in the hands of the parliament and the government and the people of that country.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U12	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U13	Thank you. Prime Minister! We all see how living beyond power and socialism and populism in government administration have failed in southern Europe. But there is another major problem in Europe, which is very well known in Estonia as well. This is an ageing population and a decline in the working age population. My question is: has it been mentioned among European leaders that the European Union should also act more coherently and use best practices in this area? We in Estonia have one very good measure in the example of parental benefit to set an example for everyone. Could Estonia not try more seriously to bring this issue to the European Union's common agenda? Otherwise, we will inevitably be able to compete with the United States and Asia and we will not be able to maintain our good model in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U14	The aging of the population itself is joy! If people live longer, you don't have to be sad about it. But at the same time, I admit that, yes, of course, from the point of view of social security systems, this is a problem. The topics you mentioned are both increasing the birth rate and ensuring the sustainability of pension systems in the European Union's agenda. In some ways, I can say, this issue has also been relatively populist and primitively addressed by some Heads of State. Some have proposed a uniform retirement age in the European Union. Estonia is certainly opposed to this because we know that in several countries where life expectancy is longer than in Estonia, retirement age is lower than in Estonia and we cannot quite be sure that the European Union behaves as responsibly as Estonia has behaved as an average. We do not agree to reduce the retirement age in Estonia, for example, simply because such a consensual agreement may be concluded. Obviously such a thing will never happen, that somewhere in Brussels it will be decided what the retirement age will be, it will still remain the responsibility of the Member States themselves. But thanks to the consolidation of economic and fiscal policies and more coordination, all Member States will certainly also recognise that their pension systems must be sustainable. It is not possible to live long with the loan money. Loans must be repaid once. Once it is discovered that the interest on the loan has become more frequent than was expected when the loan was taken. What can be achieved by living above this level can now be seen in several countries of the European Union. So pension systems must be responsible and, of course, all Member States should also ensure that young families want to have children.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U15	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U16	Thank you. Prime Minister! Today's Postman is giving a little spy that the government should focus on. It is pointed out that it should begin to build a bridge across this gorgeous gorgeous gorgeous picture and reality of the Europe you have created. When the euro came, we had to develop porridge mountains and dairy rivers, but unfortunately we have become European champions with our price increases and inflation. I ask you, why has your rhetoric been so different from reality? Maybe in the future, you're planning a little PR change in your speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U17	The reality of this reality, which is linked to the euro, has been extremely pleasant for Estonia. Yesterday's news on the development of the labour market can also be seen as a reality. So, what did we hear last night? We have heard that during the last decade employment in Estonia has increased the fastest in the third quarter, with the fastest increase in employment in the decade. Is it sad? This is very positive news for me. We also heard yesterday that unemployment in Estonia has fallen very quickly again in the third quarter. The day before yesterday, we heard that Estonia's economic growth in the third quarter was 7.9%. Reminder: 8.4% in the second quarter, 9.5% in the first quarter. It is the European Union's fastest growing economy. At this point, the question is, why has this happened? I will, of course, simplify the answer, but I will answer: because Estonia joined the euro zone, this has happened. Two years ago, potential investors did not trust the Estonian economy so much that they wanted to invest here. They feared the devaluation of the Estonian kroon, and these potential investors could be told an hour or a half how this could not happen in any way, because the exchange rate of the Estonian kroon is bound by the law to the euro, and after talking a hole in the heads of the investors for an hour and a half, the question was when you were devalued. That was only two years ago. And this question of potential investors is perfectly understandable. 60% of foreign direct investment in Estonia comes from our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland, and investors in Finland and Sweden remember perfectly how the Finnish mark and Swedish krona were devalued during the last crisis in the early 1990s. Two years ago, production volumes both in Finland and Sweden and in very many other countries decreased significantly and companies in Finland and Sweden had to cut their costs. It would have been very easy to cut costs by bringing production to Estonia, but they were disturbed by fear of devaluation of the kroon. Now that Estonia has joined the euro zone, fear is gone. Even when it was decided that Estonia would join the euro zone on 1 January 2011, investors started to invest massively in Estonia. Over the last two years, 1000 Finnish companies have moved to Estonia. And these foreign direct investments create jobs in Estonia. These foreign direct investments also produce new export products. Our export volumes are increasing significantly. The euro has undoubtedly encouraged trade with other countries of the European Union. 70% of Estonian exports go to other countries of the European Union. Thanks to the euro, we can say again that there are no longer exchange rate risks, and the lack of exchange rate risks has greatly increased Estonia's exports to other European Union countries. The euro has also been of great benefit to our simple people, especially those who took out their loans in euro. As we know, 90% of the loans taken at the time of the kroon were in euro. When we were talking about devalued the kroon's exchange rate, those people who had taken their loans in euros became nervous. What does devaluation mean? If the devaluation is carried out as much as it was devalued in Iceland, for example, at 50%, this could mean that the expected 30 years of the loan will have to be repaid within 45 years. Or this means that instead of the current 50% income that is spent on the bank to pay loans and interest, 75% should be spent. In many cases, that would not be possible, because there is something to live with. So, in the soul of all those who took their loans in euro, there is peace now. They know that they have to pay back the debt in exactly the same way in euro and that no change of exchange rate threatens them in any way. Therefore, knowing what we did not know at the time, for example, the Greek crisis, I am still fully convinced that Estonia's accession to the euro zone was right and beneficial for Estonia. I also understand the countries that are now declaring that their goal is to join the euro zone as soon as possible. For example, last Thursday we heard a statement by the Latvian Prime Minister that Latvia intends to meet all the Maastricht criteria to join the euro area on 1 January 2014. And there are other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U18	Please, my colleague Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I agree with your general attitude that Estonia should certainly not be among those countries that talk about the situation in panic and black tones. It has been argued that the coming decade has already been lost in a decade and that we have to deal with very difficult problems. I think we should take a completely different perspective and stress that this is a decade of new opportunities, very good and important for Europe. And I also think that Estonia, as a Member State of the euro area, has a very important contribution to make here. However, I do not entirely agree with the statement that there is no crisis in the European Union as a whole. After all, Angela Merkel said yesterday that the situation was the most difficult since World War II. What are, in your view, the most important actions now, also bearing in mind that the European Union is preparing for a new budget period?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U20	The most important activities relate in particular to budgetary discipline. We have agreed on the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact and, unfortunately, there are not too many countries that adhere to these agreements. To a large extent, steps have already been taken to strengthen the desire of both the euro area and the European Union as a whole to comply with the agreed rules in the future. We intend to start coordinating budgetary policies in the future. The aim is that the government deficit will never exceed 3% and that the government debt ratio will never exceed 60% of gross domestic product. Estonia, as we know, is far from the borders that many countries in the European Union are currently crossing. We don't have to be afraid of these deals. We should not be afraid of the sanctions that we will jointly apply to those who do not abide by the rules in the European Union. Last year, the general government surplus in Estonia was 0.2%, and this year it will also be the government surplus. We have only happened once that Estonia had a government deficit of more than 3%. This happened during the Russian and Asian crisis: in 1999, Estonia had a government deficit of 3.5% of GDP. In all other years, this deficit has been considerably below 3%, and, glad to say, at least half of the years we have had a surplus budget. In particular, the budget was in surplus between 2002 and 2007, when we collected significant reserves for our country. We still have 12% of gross domestic product in reserves and our debt will be 5.8% of gross domestic product by the end of this year. So when we are talking about all kinds of sanctions, we are talking about it in the Estonian context in an extremely hypothetical way. We do not need sanctions or fear of sanctions; we can keep our public finances in line with peasantry even without any sanctions or fear of sanctions. But, unfortunately, once again, countries that have kept their finances in order do not have too many fingers in the European Union. So first of all, public finances order! Secondly, the deepening of the single market. It is certainly in Estonia's interest to extend the scope of the single market as well as to go deep. I've already listed special interests in my speech. We are particularly interested in the development of the digital market. Reports have also been drawn up on this, according to which the economic growth of the European Union as a whole could be an additional 4% thanks to the development of the digital internal market alone. This is particularly in Estonia's interest, as we know that all kinds of digital services have developed well enough. When we are talking about deeper cooperation between the countries of the European Union, we must certainly not overlook those issues that are not suitable for us. Those who would like to cooperate more closely would also be happy to talk about the harmonisation of tax systems. Direct taxes are still known to be the exclusive competence of each Member State. Much has already been said about harmonising the tax base. Estonia has had a relatively reluctant and repulsive attitude on this issue. We have been most afraid that suddenly they will come and take away the tax exemption for this reinvested profits from Estonia. But the tax exemption on reinvested profits has been an argument that has brought quite a lot of foreign direct investments into Estonia. I believe that harmonising the tax base is in Estonia's interest. We should not be afraid of this because Estonia has a wide tax base, our tax system is uniform, we have no exceptions. But we see that there are numerous tax exemptions in a large number of countries in the European Union. After all, we could say that what this is our business is, it is the decision-making power of the countries themselves, let them decide what they want. However, if there are tax incentives in some country where an Estonian entrepreneur can sell his production, which artificially help to make the local company's product more competitive, this means that the Estonian entrepreneur does not have a thing for that market. If there were no tax exemptions, if the tax base were the same as the wide, uniform and with no exceptions, as it is in Estonia, then our export market would expand. Therefore, we should certainly not be afraid to launch such debates. However, we should certainly stand for direct tax rates to still be set by the Member States, because starting to harmonise tax rates, if the tax base is not harmonised, would have no effect whatsoever. This would also not be fair and therefore would not be acceptable to Estonia. So there's a lot of debate. We shouldn't rule out these debates in the beginning, but we shouldn't be ready to get into the core at any cost. But if you put this question philosophically, either in the core or among the backwards, then philosophically, my position is very unambiguous: in the core. All of Estonia's policies for the last 20 years, including foreign policy, have been shaped by one guiding principle: we must never remain alone again. And from this point of view, from this point of view, we must also shape our European Union policy over the next four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U21	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U22	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! After such thorough answers about Estonia's economic policy today, I do not know whether I dare ask a question. But I wanted to come in a little...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U23	You don't have to be afraid!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U24	It's not, is it? Well, that's good! I wanted to come to Estonia's position on Ukraine. What is happening in Ukraine today has caused some anxiety in Europe, but at the same time at the same time, at least the big countries have said that economic cooperation with Ukraine needs to be strengthened. I wanted to ask you what Estonia's position is. To what extent are we prepared to move forward with Ukraine, and under what conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U25	This is now not directly related to Estonian European Union policy, but relations between the European Union and Ukraine could somehow fit into today's agenda. Estonia is certainly interested in closer economic cooperation with Ukraine, as well as in strengthening cooperation between people. There are no changes in direction in this regard. I understand that your question concerns the trials of former Prime Minister Julia Tymoshenko, and on this point I believe that we should seek an independent trial, and that is what the European Union has also requested in its communication with the Ukrainian authorities. We certainly cannot take the place of a judge instead of a Ukrainian court. We do not know all the facts that ex-Prime Minister Tymoshenko is accused of, but at the same time we do know that the Minister for Defence of Tymoshenko's office, Yehhanurov, has also admitted in court, essentially, against him. We also know that the ex-president has testifyed against him in court, and it should make us think that probably the truth isn't black and white. However, one thing we know for sure is that it is not clear to Europe that criminal cases are being initiated, criminal cases are being processed and that a trial is being conducted only against opposition politicians. In Estonia, too, it has unfortunately happened that criminal cases have been brought against politicians, that investigations have been carried out and that the courts have also been held. At the same time, in Estonia, no one can say that the investigation and trial would be politically biased, that independent research bodies would deal with matters on the basis of the political principle, and that others would not be investigated. What we want from Ukraine is that both the investigation and the trial are indeed independent, not politically biased. But closer relations with Ukrainians, with Ukrainian entrepreneurs are certainly in the interests of Estonia, Ukraine and also of the European Union as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U26	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Estonia is certainly an example for many in the European Union with its beautiful facade and beautiful figures. However, if we look at the socio-economic situation of our people and succeed, we are unfortunately among the latter. In my opinion, the country is for the people, not the people for the country, and we do not always have a reason to be very proud. But my question is about solidarity in the European Union. Estonia is equal in the euro area, and we are jointly and severally contributing to the euro zone rescue package through the EFSF. However, solidarity has disappeared when direct payments are made for agriculture. In your report you also said that Estonia stands for more equal direct payments for agriculture. My question is, how do we do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U28	Yes, it is already such an established style in the Riigikogu that all kinds of unfounded accusations are included in the question and then, in the end, a relatively innocent question is asked. And then there's the pick-up he'll answer. Whether he answers this relatively innocent and modest question, where the intrigue is absolutely not hidden, or he also takes a comment on the introduction, which is relatively eclectic, usually bouncing and obsessed with baseless criticism. I'm gonna do it this time, and I'm gonna do it this time, even though you probably assumed I was just gonna do you guys. I do not agree that Estonia is among the last in the European Union in social terms. I suggest you look at Eurostat materials. If you look at statistics on stratification, income distribution inequality, for example, you will see that stratification in Estonia has decreased significantly over the last ten years. By now, when comparing the highest return of 20% to the lowest return of 20%, the difference between the top and the bottom revenue quintile is five times. And this 5.0 is exactly the European Union average. We have no reason to claim that we are worse off with stratification than in the European Union as an average. I would also like to point out an important trend here. In the European Union as a whole, at least 24 Member States of the European Union, there has been an increase in disparities in income distribution over the last ten years, while in Estonia the disparities in income distribution have decreased the most in the European Union over the last ten years. Thus, the trend is the best in Estonia in the European Union. I would not be so wholly pessimistic and negative in terms of Estonia's social sphere. Yes, in the social sphere, less money is spent as a percentage of gross domestic product in Estonia than in the European Union as an average, but we are spending this money efficiently. This efficiency is also reflected in the reduction in income distribution inequalities that I have just talked about to you on the basis of Eurostat. Estonian farmers receive much less direct payments than Western European farmers. In its initial plans, the European Commission proposed to harmonise direct payments for agriculture in the new Member States compared to the old Member States to a level of 90% by 2028. However, in the latest documents, this objective has been lost. Estonia's goal is set by the government to achieve this 90% level by 2020. How do we do that? As always, in cooperation with those who have the same problem. In itself, we do not require that we receive direct payments just as much as they are received in France, for example, in terms of euros. We do not demand more money, we demand equality, and I do not think that much is required.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U29	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U30	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! We're limited in 60 seconds to asking the question, and you answer as long and as heartily as you want...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U31	Thank you for this rule of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U32	... so I have no doubt that you will answer both the introduction, the development of the subject and the questions not all asked. But first I want to express my disagreement with Mrs Arto Asa's reference, as if Silvio Berlusconi were a socialist. I don't think so. But to the question. What you are talking about is that you would like more automatic and rigorous interventions and penalty systems and early warning mechanisms. This is about the same as Mrs Merkel spoke about yesterday when she said that it was necessary to move towards deeper political integration. Many analysts have argued that this is probably not possible without changing the underlying agreements, but the revision of the Treaties may not be a fast and flexible process to help resolve the current crisis. What is your opinion, whether it is possible to change the system without amending the Treaties and, if not, whether it is possible to change the underlying agreements to regulate the current crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U33	It is certainly possible to implement measures that do not require changes to the Treaties, and this would significantly help to resolve the current crisis, or at least to mitigate it. Measures relating to the amendment of the Treaty as well as measures which do not require amendment of the Treaties are possible. However, I am convinced that the Treaties cannot be such an untouchable great sanctity that absolutely must not be changed. If we do not have domestic law in some area, it is only natural that the Sotsia political group will initiate a new draft and wish to change this non-working regulation. Or the government will initiate such a bill and we will amend a law that no longer works in a particular area. For us, national law is not a taboo that can't be changed. I ask then: but why should the Treaty be such a taboo and a great sanctity for the European Union, which must not be changed even then, when it is clearly seen that, without changing it, mistakes made in the past will be repeated in the future? Basically, I would declare my openness. We are also prepared to negotiate proposals to amend the Treaties. Is this really feasible in all the countries of the European Union? It's hard to say. This is certainly not easy to do. We have seen in the current crisis that in some countries people have maintained common sense and common sense, in others the first reaction has been to set cars on fire and to break windows. But we know that the end is still the same: you have to roll up your sleeves and get to work. Even where it is burned and crushed, one must once clean up the mess and start rebuilding what was destroyed in the meantime. It is a question of speaking and explaining. Of course, it is difficult to bring the message to 500 million people that no nuances to the current Treaty will give us the expected results in the future. We remember the comments made by the referendums in France and the Netherlands on them were very unambiguous. Nobody paid any attention to what was voted on, everyone just took on some personal emotion. There was no Treaty at all, but when their 'no' was said, they said 'no' to a Polish plumber, for example. Clarification is a very big and difficult task, but it does not mean that it is not worth trying in all the countries of the European Union. After all, Estonia has managed to maintain its finances; people have understood and supported public finances in order. As for Berlusconi, I don't think he's a socialist. I think he's the center right of my view, and I don't think the Socats should feel insulted in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U34	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Very short question: how do you assess the prospect that in the coming year, for example, the European Union's governing structures could have the right to intervene in the budgetary policies of the European Union countries, including the right not to accept the budget or to make some or other demands on the preparation of the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U36	Once again, intervention in fiscal policy is something that should not be overdramatised. If we know that 1% of total economic revenue will be concentrated in the European Union's common budget, it is not possible to imagine that every budget line in Brussels can be discussed with this 1%, whether it is justified or not. The fear that somebody somewhere will be 27, all together or the evil European Commission will start drawing up budgets for the Member States instead of their own parliaments is totally unfounded. It can't basically materialize. However, in my opinion, intervention in budgetary policies is absolutely necessary. This is particularly necessary because of the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. I am thinking the same 3% of gross domestic product, which must not be exceeded by the government deficit of any Member State, and the same 60% of gross domestic product, which must not be exceeded by the public debt of any Member State. Macroeconomic parameters will be monitored. Certainly no one intends to coordinate every budget line in each country anywhere in Brussels more in the plans for coordination of budgetary policies. There is no need for this, no will at all and no material means of doing so. There's no point in painting a ghost for yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U37	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! Your answers to the questions are very convinced and encouraging to listen, cannot be denied. Here's my question. You have made some comments here on the subject of direct payments to farmers, but there is certainly more information on your desk, and you will also come into contact with it. What is your premonition, what will be the new budget, the new financial perspective? Does agriculture remain the same in this respect, or do you believe that it may not remain the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U39	Within a broad range, it will definitely remain the same. At the moment, to express my premonitions of what ultimately the financial perspective will be, I would not be very sensible. The ambassadors of other European Union countries are sitting on the balcony and they would immediately say that Estonia does not want, for example, to equalise the level of direct payments, even to the level of EUR 221 per hectare in Poland; they accept a much lower level. And then it would be pointless for me to go somewhere in Brussels to negotiate and waste my time with others, because we know what our retreat position is, what we could accept. We should therefore achieve 90% of this equality in the European Union as regards direct payments for agriculture. I understand that achieving this level will not be easy. There is, in itself, no desire to reduce or increase agricultural resources, as the European Union's budget must be primarily aimed at achieving the EU's 2020 objectives, i.e. increasing competitiveness and building cross-border infrastructures. Therefore, changing the proportion of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy to a large extent is, in my view, not very conceivable. Now, in some countries it is difficult to start reducing this well-established level of direct payments, especially given that some large countries will have elections next year. So the negotiation process is going to be very difficult, very complicated. But I don't want to end up with a pessimistic note now. I dare say that if this, too, is the final solution proposed by the European Commission, then Estonia would still be very clearly on the winning side. We should not focus so much on this grant, but on how much it increases Estonia's competitiveness in the European Union and the competitiveness of the European Union throughout the world. So the question of the use of money is even more important to us than ultimately the question of the amount. But with the sums, if we get 4.68 billion in 2007-2013, then the new plan will be EUR 4.87 billion. It is more in monetary terms. But our biggest problems, as I mentioned in my speech, are linked to the harmonisation of agricultural subsidies in the future budget plan. It doesn't go at the desired rate. The second problem relates to the use of cohesion funds, which is 2.5% of gross domestic product, is clearly discriminatory against Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, but also against Hungary. There's nothing to justify that. At the same time, I would like to add more optimism. This same Rail Baltic project is quite a large project, and in the context of Connecting Europe Facility, Estonia has the hope of obtaining a significant amount of additional funding in addition to cohesion funding. I believe that, financially, in terms of amounts, Estonia will receive even more from the common European Union budget in the next financial period than it will get during the current financial period.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U40	Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U41	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I remember when I was sitting eight years ago, not in the European Union, but in the Committee on European Affairs, the members of many right-wing parties were dismayed that we were joining an alliance that was rather left-wing. Now we see that all these social bonuses must be paid for. That is why I would like to ask about the budgetary framework, which should be put on a uniform footing. Is the opinion of many analysts that social capitalism in the European Union, too, will inevitably be followed by a new phase called real capitalism?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U42	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U43	Oh, yeah, makes me sigh right now. This current European Union is not too much on the social side or on the left. In the current European Union, social security is present and even the most right-wing parties and politicians do not envisage any society without social policy. It is in the interests of each country and in the interests of the European Union as a whole that social security is at the right dose. Maybe I'm misinterpreting the question a little bit, but I don't want to have to live beyond my means of living, living in debt, borrowing into pieces somehow linked to socialism. It is simply irresponsible and irresponsible can be cast out both in right-hand politics and in left-hand politics. I would not want any political parties, neither the EPP, nor the Liberals, nor the so-called 'link' in the European Union, or to label it with irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U44	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! As regards agriculture, the document "Estonia's EU Policy 2011-2015" prepared by the government states that Estonia supports the preservation and modernisation of the main management instruments that have been in place so far and the implementation of the risk management system. Does this mean that Estonia has started to support the establishment of an existing harvest insurance system across the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U45	To be honest, I have not thought about this for a very long time. If such an initiative comes on the agenda of the Council once again, we will probably calculate very thoroughly what these interests are. The current policy within Estonia has always been such that each company insures its own production risks. We have considered agriculture to be exactly the same business area as any other business. True, in the case of agriculture, when it comes to crops or long rainy seasons, we have also made exceptional decisions. We have allocated money from the government reserve fund to partially compensate for the damage caused. However, in principle, I personally am in favour of the insurance method in such cases, I believe that this method is the least detrimental to market competition. Whether it is possible to apply harvest insurance overnight in the European Union as a whole, I very much doubt that. It would take much more than a year or two from the idea to realization.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U46	Please, Mr Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I also wanted to ask about agricultural subsidies for the first time, but I have already received the answer that instead of 2028 our aim is to achieve a 90% subsidy by 2020. I wish you every success in this endeavour, and I believe in success myself. But my question is on another subject. There have been different versions of the future of the European Union. Recently, there has been talk of moving countries at different speeds. How much do you think is the likelihood that these countries that move at different speeds can form their own associations and that a two-level European Union could emerge?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U48	Once again, a little euthanizing, it can be said that these different connections already exist. The euro area is one Community and the European Union as a whole is another Community. Eurozone itself means already enhanced cooperation. And countries that do not belong to the euro area should join the euro area as soon as possible. However, when we talk about the core, when we talk about enhanced cooperation, we are not talking about the formation of any closed clubs, but we are still talking about a core that wants to move forward faster, which is open to all those who join, as is the eurozone open to all those who join. I do not consider the emergence of any permanent closed blocs within the European Union to be reasonable, and I do not see a very high risk for that either. These cores that wish to move forward faster must certainly be open to new entrants, and this should also be the aim of Estonian European Union policy. As has been said, in some areas in particular, the internal market, for example, is the best solution for the EU27. But that applies to practically all areas of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U49	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! I am asking about solidarity. There is a crisis in Europe and, above all, there is a crisis in the euro zone. Only 17 of the 27 EU countries participate in the European Stability Mechanism and relevant pacts. Don't you think these ten other countries could be more active? Many of them have also committed themselves to joining the euro. Do you think that solidarity could not be greater?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U51	As I said, only two Member States of the European Union have been exempted from the euro, namely the United Kingdom and Denmark. The rest have an obligation to join the euro area. As regards solidarity, both the EFSF and the ESM, as well as the euro area countries currently participating in this assistance to Greece on the basis of bilateral loan agreements. However, it should not be overlooked that countries that do not belong to the euro area but are able to assist others have also provided and provided assistance in many cases. First of all, as members of the International Monetary Fund, we are all helping those in need, whether we belong to the euro zone or not. But let us remember the Latvian case. The Nordic countries were also ready to assist Latvia on the basis of bilateral loan agreements, as Estonia did. In addition to the resources of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. And when we talk about Ireland, surely the role of the United Kingdom in helping Ireland should not be forgotten. Solidarity is a reality in the European Union. It can always be said that there could be even more solidarity. Today, however, those who have a common currency are certainly more obliged to help their partners than those who do not yet belong to the euro area.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U52	My colleague Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U53	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It was said earlier that the ageing population is influenced by the longer life expectancy of people. It's true. But on the other hand, it is also affected by the number of births in one country. As a well-informed person with statistics, you certainly know that in the first nine months of this year, 785 children have been born less than a year ago, even though the number of women of childbearing age is at the top. My question is that although the state of Estonia generously supports birth, the number of children born to us still does not increase. Do you think that we could take the example of European Union countries such as Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland and France, where there are considerably more children born per woman, and where the state also contributes much more to raising children in large numbers, including universal child support?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U54	There must be an example to follow in the countries you mentioned, as well as in many other countries. However, when it comes to births, as a person who is a little familiar with population issues, you probably know that Estonia has achieved a really big breakthrough in this area over the last decade. Ten years ago, we were among the last three in the European Union in terms of birth rates, and we are already in attendance. This is a very important change! I don't like the fact that people are always shaking their heads with conviction, so I've seen it on TV in a very stupid place. Things in the autopsy are wrong about the facts. I'm sure you don't want me to start remembering the old thing right now, but it's gonna be time. The birth rate in Estonia has increased considerably, mainly thanks to the parental benefit system. Surely more can be done to further improve the birth rate. We all know all sorts of proverbs, such as the Germans say: einmal ist keinmal. You can't generalize one. A person who has had a little bit of contact with statistics knows that it is not right to generalise the data for a few months into a constant trend. This requires a longer period of time. And looking over a longer period of time says that Estonia has done well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U55	Please, my colleague Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U56	Thank you. Prime Minister! In your report, there was a very important general political statement that might require your comment. It is that this more integrated core does not mean a threat to Europe, but increases its strength. Every time there's a nucleus, there's something outside the core. The core can also be repositioned. How do you describe this core, though? As we know, two-speed Europe has been the subject of discussion for a very long time. Could the countries covered by the Baltic Sea Strategy, for example, ever form the core of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U57	There is an answer to your question. After all, we are talking not about a core in one organizational sense, but about these cores in different areas of life; there will probably be several areas. And I think there is a very good cooperation core right here in the Baltic Sea region. Once, when Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania joined the European Union, it was very popular to consider cooperation between the new and old Member States, for example, between Estonia and Finland, to be the best. This cooperation has indeed been very fruitful. If we look at the North Baltic region as a whole, we can see that this region is already very deeply integrated in economic terms. Deep integration has taken place here, and in many ways we can set an example for the European Union as a whole. More than 70% of foreign direct investments in Estonia have come from Nordic countries, 60% of which are investments in Finland and Sweden. Our main trading partners are here in Finland and Sweden, but the Danish and Norwegian share of our trade is quite significant. When we talk about science, we can say that in some areas we already have Baltic Sea clusters. When we talk about biotechnology, about the development of genetic engineering, we can also talk about this development in the context of the development of the Baltic cluster. We have enough in many areas to offer the entire European Union from this Baltic Sea region what others should take over. At the same time, it cannot be said that cooperation in our region is cloudless and impeccable in all areas. Free movement of labour, for example. We remember the case of the Latvian construction company Laval, which received a judicial solution in Sweden. It turned out that freedom of movement for workers was not very guaranteed. So we have problems in this region too, and we do, which we can solve here first. And if solutions have succeeded here, we could also copy these solutions to the whole of the European Union. However, while we are talking about budgetary cooperation, there are very similar positions within the euro area in Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, Estonia and some other countries. But there aren't many who could form some kind of core. Since there are different initiatives in different areas of life, I think that development is quite natural.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U58	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! You answered one question that you had previously said that the Estonian economy is clearly an export economy. Let me remind you of some figures. Between 1991 and 2003, total agricultural production decreased more than twice in Estonia, and the result was that the foreign trade of Estonian agricultural products remained in deficit with EEK 45.2 billion between 1993 and 2009. Estonia's total foreign trade remained in deficit with the same period of 66.4 billion kroons. Could you comment on your claim that our economy is an export economy, based on the fact that we have exports and imports minus exceeding four countries' annual budgets?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U60	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U61	Well, that's not your point, is it? Return to the statistics, and you will soon make sure that your claim is wrong. You'll see that our current account deficit is pretty good, better than ever. If you look at the surplus figures, you will get exactly the same result as the current account. So both our trade balance and our current account balance are currently very good. As far as agriculture is concerned, let us tell you that about 10% of our exports are agricultural products.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U62	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! You said that trends in our social sphere are among the best in the European Union. At the same time, we now know about this next financial perspective that the ESF funds will increase proportionally and the Regional Development Fund will decrease proportionally. What is your assessment: does our social sector, however, require a significant additional contribution? We have agreed to increase the resources of the ESF, while the content of the Regional Development Fund is, above all, to support entrepreneurship, to support innovation, to support productivity growth, as well as to create infrastructure to support regional development, which is all the content of the Regional Development Fund. At the moment, the size of the Social Fund will increase in the next term, the size of the Regional Fund will decrease. How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U63	These changes are not very big. Of course, we have to admit that there are some gaps in the development of the social sphere in Estonia, and we are, of course, grateful that we can also use the budgetary resources of the European Union as a whole to solve our problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U64	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U65	Dear Ene Ergma! Dear Andrus Ansip! What kind of European Union do you work for, Mr Prime Minister? Perhaps speaking conceptually about the European Union: does Estonia ever want to be part of the Union of States or does it want to be a federal state, the best example of which is, of course, the eurozone? conceptually continuing on the subject of the enlargement of the European Union: what is the position of Estonia as Prime Minister of a post-communist state, whether and when will the Republic of Moldova become a Member State of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U66	Yeah, well, it's that union or union of states again. I am sorry, but it seems to me that you are overzealous of all kinds of structures in this House. It is well known that taxpayers in the European Union are not willing to pay more than 1% of gross national income to the single budget. Good Marianne! Next, brain gymnastics: how can you make a proper alliance with this 1%? Try! There is no such practice in the world. We should go to other planets and follow suit. That is, in principle, not possible. It sounds like an arrogants, but I just don't want to go along with all kinds of speculation on the subject of the 'Union of States versus the Union of States'. This is a big waste of time, don't deal with it! When will Moldova become a Member State of the European Union? It's hard to say. It is difficult to say, because very much time has been wasted in Moldova. When Estonia took the path of reforms as soon as independence was restored, Moldova spent time doing nothing. The consequence is that even though we were more or less at the same level of development 20 years ago, Moldova's standard of living is currently 7 to 8 times lower than that of Estonia. How long will it take them to reform and harmonise their laws with European Union law? It's hard to say. If, now, after spending many years without reforms, they take the reforms seriously, there is hope that in a decade they will be able to cope. But if we approach this issue philosophically, I am convinced that all European countries must have the perspective of joining the European Union. It wouldn't be right to say to someone, "You know, you still have a long way to go, you don't even dream! ' They are at the beginning of this path, but if they seriously set a goal and make an effort, I believe that they will eventually also reach the European Union. Well, I look forward to Moldova's European Union. We also know from the experience of Estonia how important it was for us to have a clear perspective on the European Union. If someone had ever told us that we should not make any effort at all, then I do not know what choice Estonia would have been. If it was vital for us to have a clear European objective, then let us also give a very clear European perspective to those who are still dreaming of joining the European Union. Let us also give this perspective to Moldova.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U67	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U68	Thank you, Prime Minister. You speak very well of our progress in monetary policy and macroeconomics. However, please explain to me and also to the diplomats in this balcony, to whom you have already referred, which is why we have this success, if our people's standard of living is still lower in the European Union, our average salary is the poorest in the European Union, our 300-euro pension is non-existent in European terms, and 300000 Estonian pensioners live in total poverty in the European sense. We have no social benefits in European terms, but at the same time we have not joined the European Social Charter for years with those sections which, precisely in relation to these social benefits, would commit us. Tell me, please, for whom this complete success, which you are talking about here for a long time, is still if not for the average Estonian!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U69	Thank you. This success is for the average Estonian. I ask you: what is the alternative that you would offer Estonia? Would the alternative be to infinity borrowing to borrow, borrow and borrow, as long as we are lent, interest will continue to grow and increase until it is 4%, 6%, 8%, 10%, 17% and, one day, 48%? What kind of perspective is that? It's a bankruptcy perspective. This is certainly not an alternative. The people of Estonia have won a great deal thanks to the fact that the Estonian state's finances have been in order. While the European Union as a whole pays 3% of GDP on average annually for interest, Estonia paid 0.2% of GDP as interest last year. To be honest, we earned more from our reserves than we paid for interest. What does 3% of GDP mean? This is almost half of Estonia's educational expenditure. The alternative is very simple: either to pay half of the educational costs as interest to creditors or to educate their young people for this money. This 3% of GDP is greater than the total investment of the Estonian state in the cultural sphere. Perhaps again, the question is simple: is public finances and culture in order, or are we paying high debt interest and no money left for culture? Every person in Estonia has won public finances. Right now, in this crisis, absolutely everyone, including those at the bottom of the deepest crisis, understands that public finances must be in order. I am somewhat surprised that there is a person in our own Riigikogu who does not understand the benefits of proper public finances for a simple resident of our country. I'm sure this simple resident will understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U70	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We are talking here about joint action and joint decision-making in the context of the European Union. The Lisbon Treaty also includes measures to combat the in-time transposition of EU directives effectively, pending the application of fines. The aim is that no Member State should have more than 1% of the directives that have not been adopted. However, in the last ranking, Estonia was ranked 23rd among the Member States. My question: what are the steps taken in the coming years to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U72	In itself, Estonia's situation in transposing directives is not at all bad. We are still more or less always within the bounds of the promised limit. Whether we are in the role of a red lantern or in the spirit of a red lantern again depends on when that review is made. So this isn't right. In my opinion, the big problem for the European Union as a whole is that there are relatively few directly applicable legislation and that, in most cases, EU law is transposed into national law by transposing directives. This will, of course, allow flexibility in the methods used by the Member States, but this creates problems in one way or another. These problems are linked to the fact that when a directive is transposed, it does not correspond to the expected scope in some Member States. Some places are also missing from the depths. Perhaps we will adopt a directive in the European Union and hope that all Member States will transpose this directive into their own law in the same way, but unfortunately, we will finally say that some have failed to do so and some have taken it over in a limited way. This process is going on for years, and ultimately it means very serious market barriers when we talk about economic issues. Our businesses are going somewhere to sell something, but it turns out that, unfortunately, there is a different understanding of the directive and that this directive has been transposed into national law in a different way. Mario Monti, the current Prime Minister of Italy, successful him, once wrote a report. According to this report, it is also more in favour of adopting directly applicable legislation at European Union level than of constantly transposing directives in all areas of life. In Estonia, we sometimes transpose directives in areas where transposition seems ridiculous to our simple people, but, shame to say, also to members of the government, because the directive does not concern Estonia or the organisation of life in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U73	Please, my colleague, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! The crisis four years ago has been referred to as a financial crisis; the current crisis has been referred to as a public sector crisis. Looks like the time for the fat country is coming to an end. The financial sector made a number of major changes and reforms as a result of the crisis. What reforms are planned in the public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U75	Yeah, there are probably all kinds of experts who date different phases of the crisis differently and call it different. For me, this is the same crisis. This crisis began as a global financial crisis, beginning with the global bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers. This happened on September 15, 2008. This crisis did not arrive in Estonia immediately, but by the beginning of 2009, this crisis was in Estonia. This crisis devastated very many countries not only in Europe but all over the world. At present, this financial crisis, which was first and foremost triggered by a lack of trust between financial institutions, has taken a slightly different form. This is a credit crisis. I do not think that there is much to do with some kind of administrative crisis. The credit crisis is a really vital problem for those countries that have spent more years than they have had income. Now, with their debts, they have reached such a level that creditors no longer trust them. These countries are not able to refinance loans already committed, and they are still not able to finance debt, or deficits, which are still growing. The solution must be as it has been for Estonia: costs must be cut and revenue must be increased, structural reforms must be carried out that allow both cost cuts and revenue increases, i.e. the efficient use of taxpayers' money. Despite the fact that public finances are in good condition in Estonia, Estonia must also continue with these structural reforms.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U76	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I quote one paragraph from your speech: 'The ability of the European Union as a whole to influence its Member States is often low or very slow. ' I would add that it is actually very difficult for the European Union to control the action of the Member States, because there is a Stability Pact that provides very clear rules on how countries should behave in budgetary matters and public debts, and we can still write more rules, but the rules do not prevent all mistakes in the European Union either. We all know that the financial systems have gotten the countries of the European Union into debt, and the Estonian state is going to help this system through the EFSF and the ESM. Do you not think that we should not save countries, but that we should influence the system that has caused this whole debt crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U78	Thank you. But we're gonna do both this and this. We're helping. The aid is in the form of loans and is repayable. I certainly do not agree with those who believe that the loan granted through the EFSF or the ESM has been lost hopelessly. I am quite convinced that both the EFSF and the ESM will be able to act in exactly the same way as the International Monetary Fund, which, since its creation, has helped countries in a much worse position than those in need today in Europe. Despite this, the International Monetary Fund has grown, strengthened and become more powerful. I believe in the future of the EFSF and the ESM pretty strongly, I don't think it's a one-off gift to anyone. Fortunately, I can say that there is no one among the prime ministers or presidents attending the Council who would think that the assistance from the EFSF or the ESM would be non-repayable assistance. Now to change the system. That's what I talked about in my speech for a really long time. The system needs to be changed. This system, which allows for unbridled lending and violation of the rules agreed in the European Union, must be changed so that these sanctions are applied automatically, so it would be best, but if they are applied automatically to some extent, as we have agreed at the moment, it is certainly a better option than the fact that they do not apply at all. Perhaps the offenders need to know that they are not only causing problems for themselves, but also for the euro area and for the European Union as a whole. I believe that voters in all countries are driven by rational thinking and are able to appreciate the value of decisions made with common sense. It is known that there is a very strong correlation between the government deficit and the credibility of the government, according to the Eurobarometer. Similarly, there is a strong correlation between the government debt burden and the credibility of the government. This correlation clearly speaks of the fact that if public finances are in order, if the deficit is low, if the debt burden is low, then the government is credible, and if the debt burden is high, if the deficit is high, then the people do not trust the government of this country. The most reliable government in the European Union is in Luxembourg. According to the latest survey, even 85% of Luxembourg's population trusts Jean-Claude Juncker. We all know that Luxembourg's finances are in very good shape. Sweden is in second place. In addition, Finland, the Netherlands, Austria and Estonia are those countries that have managed to maintain their finances and where the credibility of the government is quite high compared to the European Union average. Estonia is at the top of it. For politicians not only in Estonia (I am not speaking about you), but everywhere it seems that it is possible to buy voters' votes with loan money. This same Eurobarometer survey confirms that, in fact, the people are much smarter than those politicians who think it is possible to buy electoral support with loan money. Voters value public finances much more than they appreciate the present benefits of the loan money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U79	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I enjoyed the oratorial piruettes of this discussion, just as they have been the case in previous discussions. But there were a number of questions. On several occasions, it seemed that one question was asked, but the other one was answered. At the end of the day, Heimar Lenk asked what would be the benefit of success if wages and pensions were shamefully low. I understand that this propaganda question does make me angry, but the Prime Minister's answer was also interesting. He said that it is strange that there are people in Parliament who do not understand the value of good finances and low debt. In other words, the conclusion was that the Prime Minister put an equal sign between finances and low wages. Wouldn't you like to show for the sake of the verbatim that the size of wages has other economic policy factors than loans alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U81	I'm sure there are other influences. But when we talk about public finances and their impact on a simple person, you can call wages low, but somebody thinks they're normal, somebody knows what else, but we know that if the finances weren't in order, the wages would be like in Moldova. It's as simple as that, and that's my message to you. Wages are as high as they are because our public finances are in order. If public finances were not in order, under no circumstances would wages be higher, but still considerably lower. It's not much higher mathematics.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U82	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your presentation and your answer to questions. I call as rapporteur Taavi Rõivas, Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Excellencys! Good fellows! The Prime Minister devoted a significant part of his presentation to the debt crisis in parts of the European Union. Such an emphasis on problems that are at first glance distant from Estonia is undoubtedly justified. No matter how strict we are in Estonia when drawing up our national budgets, we live in the most connected Europe of all time, and despite the fact that our neighbouring countries, the Nordic countries and the Baltic States, are the most conservative region in Europe, we are also affected by the problems. In our real economy, Sweden and Finland are exported, although they are among the safest countries in Europe with their own finances, but in turn they are heavily dependent on exports. The economic crisis gave rise to Europe's greatest challenges: decades of overpowering, and the construction of a social state that denied economic and demographic realities. It is an objective fact that a third wealthier country than Estonia cannot afford several times higher wages and pensions. The hard truth is also that the wealth borrowed is to be repaid and that the costs of overpowering cannot continue indefinitely. The European Union, including Estonia, has offered countries a smooth exit from the debt crisis in the form of gradual deficit reduction and structural reforms that will inevitably require time. There is no doubt that both Ireland and Portugal will be able to resolve their problems with the help of the EFSF. I very much hope that in a year's time we will be able to say the same about Greece, but it will require full commitment from both the Greek Government, Parliament and the people. Europe can only help a country as long as it helps itself. After all, we have seen how quickly it will be to talk about isolation instead of helping the country's own will. I believe that you will be with me if I sincerely wish all Greeks success and strength on behalf of Estonia as a whole! Those who call the crisis a crisis only a crisis in the euro area are mistaken. Yes, some countries in the euro area are clearly the red light of bond markets, but it is inappropriate to talk about the possible transfer of euro area problems across the Atlantic or the English Channel. We cannot forget, when we speak of some of the problems in the euro area, that similar problems must inevitably be solved by those who have not yet been distrusted by the markets, but whose debt burden and deficit figures are just as terrible. The best time to cut the deficit and get the loan burden under control is when the market has not yet fallen to the state. It is not to be expected that the market will remain unattractive. The markets are certainly not responsible for the debt crisis, but still only a mirror, a mirror of politicians who have largely become too kind and thus become looser. This is the background to the many discussions that took place during the warm summer in the Committee on European Union Affairs. This is the background that helped us in the Commission, apart from discussions and disputes, to reach a consensual decision that Estonia, too, cannot be left out of solving the problems of the debt crisis. I assure you that we will use the mandate given to our Commission with a great deal of responsibility to assess the implementation of the programmes agreed with the countries and the fulfilment of commitments. We realise that a strong mandate also means a great deal of responsibility. In public finance, we are undoubtedly a positive exception in Europe, as has already been pointed out many times in today's debate. Of course, our proper public finances do not give us cause for arrogance, but an experience that could be valuable to many others. We do not go around Europe to stress that we are keeping our budget balanced. They already know that. I believe and hope that our example will infect because the alternatives are limited. Like the socialist plan economy, the socialist debt economy is also unsustainable. Nor do we go around Europe because of the modesty of Estonians that we have been among the most efficient users of money in the current financial perspective. They already know that. To us (by this I mean the whole Committee on European Union Affairs) it seems that we should be self-critical and also analyse whether, at times, it is justified to continue to have three-month procedural deadlines, whether disbursements must still be subject to intermediate costs of bridge financing, etc. And, of course, the main question: are we using every euro as efficiently as possible, to the maximum extent possible, in the interests of the development of Estonian society? The same question is at the table of all the governments and parliaments of the European Union at a time when we are preparing the next seven-year budget plan, a plan which, in our understanding, should focus on supporting European growth through investment, including by prioritising investment in research and infrastructure. The Budgetary Plan is therefore, alongside the debt crisis, another major issue that the Commission on European Union Affairs has dealt with in depth and will no doubt continue to deal with in the future. During the summer, we met with almost all ministers to get a thorough view of the current use of money. We are now committed to ensuring that the next budget plan reflects the answers to Europe's greatest challenges. Already in the near future, we are committed to planning the use of money within Estonia in 2014 to 2020. Good groups and committees! I appeal to you to contribute fully to this process and to provide ideas and steps on how to establish the closest possible link between the Structural Funds and the development of society. Our biggest task is to make wise use of the experience we have gained in implementing this budget plan, and to make the next one a plan that is even better suited to the challenges facing Estonia. The Committee on European Union Affairs is ready to carry this debate in Parliament. We are grateful for the contributions of all political groups and committees. We are also grateful for the Commission's contribution to the formulation of the European Union's policy. From the point of view of the Committee on European Union Affairs, it is important that the sectoral committees have taken this document very seriously and have put forward their substantive proposals and comments, because it is the sectoral committees that will be responsible for the national legislative process relating to the European Union for this period. With each subsequent processing of the European Union's policy document, we have made qualitative progress in involving the public, specialists and, of course, the Riigikogu. The "Estonia's European Union Policy 2011/2015," presented by the Government and soon confirmed, has carried out an unprecedented round of representative engagement and coordination. This document covers a number of topics of importance to both the European Union and Estonia, and, most importantly, allows us to be even more proactive in shaping Estonia's positions than has been the case so far. The processing of European Union matters must be effective, effective and, at the same time, legitimate within the country. On the one hand, Parliament certainly needs the opportunity to discuss and, if necessary, intervene in the government's European Union activities, but the procedures should not be too cumbersome, which in turn would prevent our national position from being presented or realised. I would not rule out the need to review the part of the Riigikogu law on the European Union, particularly with regard to the changed Europe and the writing into the law of existing practices and procedures. I will give just one example. Until a year ago, Estonia was not a member of the Eurogroup, but now the monetary or prime ministers of the euro area make a large part of the important decisions there. Of course, a parliamentary mandate must also be given before these meetings, in addition to the fact that it is good practice and practice, it should also have the power of law. There is at least a partial alternative to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. This is even better informed about the work of the Riigikogu and the European Union Affairs Committee. The fact that the Estonian public is surprised to hear that the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs is a mini-Parliament with basically special powers, whose competence covers all European issues from fiscal to agricultural is certainly our own fault. I wish to make the Commission more open to the media and to make our work more transparent. I stopped for a long time on the subject, but this is, of course, only part of our field of work. Article 26 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states: "The internal market shall comprise an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured in accordance with the provisions of the Treaties. ' Unfortunately, the economic downturn that began in 2008 has focused European governments' attention on tackling the crisis from these fundamental freedoms of the European Union. The Prime Minister's use of a fire-extinguishing image was all right here. I agree that it tends to be forgotten that if a forest burns somewhere and has to put out a fire, then on the other hand, young trees must be planted. Because you'll find out that the fire was extinguished, but there's only a smoking earth left. Right now, it is important to focus on developing an internal market without borders. This includes the development of infrastructures (both transport and digital infrastructure) and research cooperation. A strong internal market will in turn increase the competitiveness of the European Union. One of the most important initiatives for the development of the internal market is today the draft Common European Sales Law, which offers the so-called 28th legal order, i.e. the possibility of concluding sales contracts in accordance with the rules of the Common European Sales Law. This option would remove one major obstacle to intra-EU trade. This is particularly necessary for Estonia as a small Member State whose economy is strongly export oriented. Unfortunately, some Member States have already been able to express their scepticism about this initiative, and Estonia has a great deal to do in mitigating these negative attitudes and convincing its partners that protectionism is not the solution to any economic crisis, rather the opposite. In the second half of the year, the European Commission presented the reform of the fisheries policy and the CAP reform package. These are ambitious positions consisting of policy documents and drafts, together with proposals leading to fundamental changes in both sectors. A more effective and market-oriented agricultural policy is in the interests of Estonia and Europe, including both fairer subsidies and gradually decreasing intervention. While we are ally in the negotiations on the fisheries policy package to the European Commission and the central idea of this package of sustainable fisheries management, the negotiations on the common agricultural policy package mean a value-based fight, where the central idea is a level playing field for all Member States and their farms. The European Commission's proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy, which is currently on the table, does not offer such conditions, and we need to find allies among the other Member States of the European Union. It is hoped that the direction towards the harmonisation of direct payments under the common agricultural policy has been taken, while the goal of achieving this is clearly too far-reaching for Estonia as one of the Member States with the lowest direct payments. Such inequalities cannot be accepted. I would stress here that fairer and more equal direct payments do not necessarily mean the need for additional money, rather the opposite. Harmonisation is also possible in the direction of reduction. Of the social issues, the most acute question is the demographic developments in Europe and the competition within it for the labour force in the European Union. The subject is not new and directly ties Estonia with the thematic aspects of this year's Human Development Report. Of the environmental issues, what is most important is what is going on in climate negotiations both within the European Union and at international level. Climate policy is not so much a matter of nature conservation as a matter of energy and industrial reform. The European Union has made its choices and decided that the energy and industrial sectors must be reformed, that the sector must be directed towards finding and introducing resource-efficient innovations at a faster pace. The background to the faster pace of choice is an understanding of the competitive advantage this can give the European Union in a situation where traditional fossil fuels are located outside the European Union, or where their prices are not so much dependent on the European Union. Whether the rest of the world can be persuaded to come at this rate depends on the European Union's willingness to participate in international climate negotiations as a whole. Estonia is a supporter of a coherent and strong climate policy for the European Union, and despite the protracted debate over the distribution plan for Estonian greenhouse gas quotas for this period. I would also like to highlight the enlargement of the European Union as an important issue. Estonia has supported enlargement on the basis of the readiness of the candidates, i.e. on the basis of agreed common rules. I believe that the willingness of one candidate or another to join or start negotiations or to continue negotiations should not bounce against subjective obstacles. The European project, together with the promotion of relevant values and compliance with common rules, is far more important than phobias or unilateral attempts to resolve disputes between themselves by preventing the enlargement of the European Union. Good fellows! Finally, I appeal to you, perhaps even with a surprising proposal to start thinking about the Estonian Presidency in 2018. This is a distant time, but there is quite a lot to be done for a successful Presidency, already during this parliamentary term. It should be mentioned that the government has already drawn up these plans since 2010 and we should also draw up and coordinate our plans over the coming years. Good coordination and the sense of the European Union are key to the success of our Presidency. The role of sectoral committees could be to establish and maintain direct contacts with both the European Parliament and national parliaments. True, there is still much to be done. Among other things, it must be accepted that most committees are also responsible for European issues. For example, the debate on each European Commission initiative in the sectoral committee and the opinion given to the European Commission should be clearly linked to our own intentions in implementing the directive adopted later in the same committee and in moving our legal space. The trade label 'The latest complaints are not satisfied' is very relevant here. Another great burden of planning and preparation in the preparation of the Estonian Presidency is at the office of our house. I am sure that the Chancellery can start planning and discussing issues related to the Estonian Presidency. Human resources are, of course, the subject of the most long-term development: training, structural arrangements, external contacts, structuring and so on. Good fellows! The things of the European Union are our business. I wish us all the best of luck in running them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U84	Thank you very much, Mr Javier. You have questions. Let's start with my colleague Maret Maripuu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U85	Thank you. Good waitress! Thank you so much for your presentation. I will continue with what you have finished, that the things of the European Union are for all of us. When we discussed the EFSF together in this large Chamber, it remained that there was too little information, despite the fact that this issue had been discussed throughout the summer in the Committee on European Union Affairs. You touched it in your speech, but I'll ask. How do you think that all members of the Riigikogu should be better involved and informed about what is happening in the European Union and, in addition, involve the specialised committees in the development of common positions, so that the consensus policy that has been sought out in the European Union Affairs Committee can also be pursued in the longer term?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U86	Thank you. I am very clear that, in addition to asking for a traditional written opinion, the European Commission on European Union affairs has the opportunity and obligation to involve other committees already in the discussions on the most important issues. We have tried to do so with great force, and we will certainly continue to do so in the future, for example, by organising joint sessions. As far as the EFSF is concerned specifically, it must be understood here that, although the subject was in the debate in Parliament through discussions in the Committee on European Union Affairs actually throughout its term, starting in spring and even earlier, the final decisions were very clearly time-critical. I am of the opinion that everyone who wanted to be briefed enough in Parliament too. We have had some serious debates here, both among ourselves and in public. At the same time, I would advise all Members to monitor the debates that are taking place in Europe on ESM issues already. If, during this year, this decision is to be decided, Parliament will certainly speak out through the Committee on European Union Affairs, too, that the enforcement of the ESM will be brought back to next year, my understanding is that we should be able to prepare this issue in Parliament's plenary within almost two months. This could provide us with quite thorough discussions, substantive preparation for both the coalition and the opposition, and this discussion is certainly constructive and appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U87	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U88	My question is also about the debate. People's ambassadors did not surprise me with someone who is positive for the European Union and who is even negative. There was nothing new here. But the debate that took place in public was pretty horrible. We actually dealt with the salary and pension of the Estonian teacher here, for some reason the public thought it was Greek. That is why I ask you, as chairman of the committee: why has the Commission missed the opportunity to put the future of the euro, the debate with the euro, as a matter of national importance to the Riigikogu plenary so that you are involved in the Ministry of Finance and the Government? In some ways, it is broader because it comes to the need to change the Treaties. This is a pure proposal from the Committee on European Union Affairs, all right? Why has the Commission not made such a proposal? Maybe people would understand what we're even arguing about here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U89	Thank you. When the Estonian Parliament discussed the state budget for the following year at first reading, it was the news of the evening news that was going on in Brussels, that is, about the debt crisis. If we are talking here today about Estonia's European Union policy in 2011‐2015, a very prominent part of this discussion concerns the debt crisis. We are very likely to have the opportunity to debate the creation of the ESM in this Chamber at the beginning of the year. In addition to Portugal and Ireland, if a new country should go under the EFSF programme, this issue will also come to the large Chamber of Parliament. If this is not all a matter of national importance and a matter of national importance, what is it? I believe that during this Parliament we have discussed the issues of the debt crisis most at all, including the European Union Affairs Commission, more than ten times today. It should not be underestimated that the European Commission for Union Affairs is composed of 19 parliamentarians. This is clearly the largest committee in which all other committees and parliamentary groups are represented. I very much recommend discussing these issues also in the political groups, because this knowledge, which is being given to members of all the political groups in the Committee on European Union Affairs, could, of course, reach the whole group. We in our group are trying to discuss these issues thoroughly. In the interests of the quality of future debates, I would be delighted if all the other groups would do the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U90	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You represent the younger generation in politics. Younger generations are often told to learn from the mistakes of previous generations. What is the best lesson for you, dear Taavi Kõivas, that you have learned from this supposedly major financial crisis since the Second World War, and what could benefit the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U92	Thank you. That's a good question. I guess that's what they say mostly when the question is really hard. I believe that both Estonia and the whole of Europe could conclude that the bread and the fire will not last for long. This is the conclusion that Estonia's popular wisdom has reached long before us, and perhaps it would make sense that it would now reach all parts of the world. I think that economics certainly conclude for themselves that John Maynard Keynes's teachings are not necessarily true. Stimulating the economy may have a short-term effect, but it will then have to be repaid with interest. I think there are and there are still these conclusions, but the most important thing is that when planning their own costs and revenues, politicians in any country must act responsibly first and then think about how to do as much good as possible to the taxpayer for his own money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U93	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U94	Thank you. In view of what is happening with the euro, I think that a debate on a matter of national importance in this Chamber would certainly not do any harm. I think it would give you a lot of opportunities to express your thoughts and to listen to others. But you mentioned socialist fiscal policy. As a Social Democrat, this does not concern me very much because of the great ideological gap between social democracy and socialism, but I wanted to make it clear: did you mean that those right-wing governments, during which the debt burden has also increased, were pursuing a socialist fiscal policy in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U95	I think that we both know European politics well enough to know that everyone who calls themselves Liberals or Conservatives is not classic. In Estonia, too, we find one party that internationally calls itself a liberal, but at home it tends to think of itself as a left, and I believe that the domestic classification is more appropriate. Therefore, I would not be in a hurry to automatically label one European government by party name, either left or right. That's one. Secondly, yes, I was talking about the socialist debt economy. The idea was that the social state could not be maintained at the expense of high costs, with very generous, outright subsidies for loan money, without structural reforms. If you keep such a thing at the expense of the loan money, you will have to pay for it, together with very large and perhaps even excessive interest, for the next generations. That's the logic. I believe that this may be a follow-up to the Urve Tiid's response, that one of the conclusions that Europe as a whole and not only Europe, just like the United States and many other countries outside Europe should make from the sovereign debt crisis, is that social benefits and public sector wages, all matters of vital importance must be in the amounts and percentage of the budget that are available to the state. You can't afford to spend more than you can afford, no matter how noble your purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U96	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U97	While the chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs from Clothes is mostly excited by the debt crisis, as the vice-chairman of this committee, the future of Europe will excite structurally, more broadly. After hearing the Prime Minister's reply that he did not bother to debate a federal state or a union of states, I was really shocked. So I have a question for the new generation of the Reform Party and, on the other hand, for the head of the European Union Affairs Commission: what is your position, Mr Rõivas, on a two-speed Europe? Is it good or bad for Estonia? Should there not be just a debate on the euro in Estonia, as my colleague Eiki Nestor suggested, but, more broadly, a debate on the future of the European Union? What should the Committee on European Union Affairs, as the lead committee, do in order to have a substantive, serious debate on European issues in Estonia? We are a Member State of the European Union and a message can come from Tallinn, but for some reason it does not tend to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U98	Thank you. First of all, when it comes to the public debate on the future of the European Union, it must, of course, take place in Estonia. As I said at the end of my speech, European things are for all of us. Just as we are discussing our home affairs, we must consider that our home is now also the European Union. There must, of course, be a public debate. In my opinion, 'Estonia's policy for the European Union 2011/2015' also went through a very serious round of engagement. Both the academia and the disciplines, everyone at all, had the opportunity to have a say. As the Prime Minister has already mentioned, very much of their proposals and observations were taken into account. I think that there are very few sectoral documents of such great weight in Estonia, which have been made with such a broad involvement. I think it's positive anyway, and here we see things the same way. As far as two-speed Europe is concerned, in many ways it is simply an expression. But the truth is that, in practice, in those countries that have not burdened their economies with huge debt burdens, the economy has a tendency to grow much faster in recent times than in those countries where the debt crisis is in full swing or where the symptoms of the debt crisis are strongly present. Of course, if we look at any investor in different countries, the Member State of the European Union, where public finances are in order, where there is no need, seems more attractive, I would say that even the urgent need to start raising taxes in the near future or knows what expenditure cuts. This future perspective, which Estonia and even the Nordic countries have, is certainly positive in this context. But I am not among those who are overencouraged by the expression 'two-speed Europe'. I certainly would not want to be part of Estonia's European Union policy in any way in order to formalise it. Unfortunately, the Member States of the European Union are growing at different speeds, but we are, to a large extent, part of the combined economy. If some of the European Union is doing very badly, we cannot do very well either.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U99	Please, colleague Tõnu Juul! I'm still asking you one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Following the evolution of the debt crisis in the euro area, I am alarmed that some countries may be tempted to show themselves to be in crisis in order to obtain cheap credit and to partially erase private sector loans. What do you think of that idea? It seems to me that the resolution of the crisis has so far been a bit like being stopped, is not an accurate and good exit plan. For me, the Italian example is the first sign of danger that this could be the case. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U101	Thank you. The EFSF programme is certainly not a great dream of any country. The EFSF programme does not only mean that this country will receive a loan with a guarantee from other countries at a lower rate than it would otherwise receive from the market, but the EFSF programme also includes an obligation to make very significant cuts, structural reforms, and to increase public revenue. I believe that each country's government would take these steps itself rather than allow the whole of Europe and the IMF, for example, to choose where the places where one country or another has to cut down, what the reforms that someone has to carry out are. Recent experience has shown that those countries that are able to make cuts themselves come out of the crisis much more quickly, and I believe that the choices in this case also correspond more precisely to the expectations of this society. But the truth is that those countries that have already come under the programme have no choice in this respect. Reforms and cutbacks will have to be done by others. I do not think that any Prime Minister or Minister of Finance has the pleasure of being a beneficiary of this programme. I doubt that any Prime Minister or Minister of Finance would deliberately lead his country on this path.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U102	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U103	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In the meantime, the debate here on the European Union's policy became very ideological. You said that not all Keynes theories were true. If we look at what is happening in Europe and the world economy as a whole, can we say that, according to Friedman's theory, a Europe of solidarity and cooperation is happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U104	Thank you. First of all, I didn't say that not all Keynes theories were true, but I said that not everything was true. This little between words and emphasis can play a very important role. I would not like to discuss here at this point whose theory in economic terms Europe will be making progress in the future. I have my own opinion on this, but I very much hope that in Europe as a whole, not only will it change between 2011 and 2015, but the basic common sense will continue to become the main one that we consider to be basic in Estonia. Among other things, the fact that countries also have to make ends meet, including the notion that the bread and the fire will not last long. These are basic, self-evident things for us. Unfortunately, if we look at the history of the last decades of Europe, we will see that it has not been so self-evident there. After all, the balanced budget in Estonia has not always been the subject of a large political consensus. There have been plenty of politicians who, when the economy grew more than 10% a year in Estonia, insisted that the budget should be increased with the support of loan money. There have been plenty of economic experts who have called for the immediate introduction of the unemployment fund's reserves because they earn too little interest. This was all just before the big economic crisis. Even now, we have, and we do have, proposals as to how, at the expense of loan money or even more complex and costly, using PPP schemes and hiding the burden of debt as a form of self-deception, to make spending and to make the state's financial situation worse. We too must be very self-critical in ensuring that we have common sense within and beyond the next four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U105	Please, colleague Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U106	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Young people have a future. That is why I ask you to find out what politics will bring us in the future. Travelling around Europe's metropolitan areas has been noticed and the correct Europeans have noticed that immigration has become diverse and is already pretty prevalent, especially in welfare societies, but also elsewhere. The welfare states are thinking about how to distribute this asylum pressure, which has increased in recent years, more equally in Europe. We talk a lot about the economy, but in fact, especially second and third generation immigrants are an economic problem in every society. Asyl in our society is not yet a problem, we have our own laws here. But what is our position on the future, should asylum policy be harmonised across Europe, so that we too take part in the asylum burden, as is already being proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U107	Thank you. Quite a delicate question. We have, of course, discussed this repeatedly in the Committee on European Union Affairs. Personally, I do not regard the introduction of any quotas as the most appropriate solution. However, I am realistic about the fact that the more time goes on, the more this issue will inevitably come to our attention. It would be naive to think that immigrants keep away our climate and that Estonia is unattractive only because we have a worse climate than elsewhere. We see that this is an important issue in Finland and Sweden, which has begun to influence not only the positions of immigration policy, but has started to influence policy as a whole, it has created a basis for the formation of new political parties, etc. This is undoubtedly an important issue for the future. I agree that we must certainly look at this and consider Estonia's views thoroughly, because it is beginning to touch us to a greater or lesser extent as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U108	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Javier. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, I call on my colleague, Marko Mihkelson, as a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U109	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to acknowledge the government's action in shaping 'Estonia's European Union Policy 2011/2015'. This has really been a very exemplary process, with such a wide-ranging debate in making two earlier similar documents and with no hearing of all parties and stakeholders. I can tell those critics who sometimes, in their easy-to-weakness, direct their fire towards the Riigikogu, claiming that the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp, who simply listens nicely, which the government brings before us, that I believe that those who participated in the formulation of this policy in different committees, including the Committee on Foreign Affairs, know very well that this is not the case. I think that this document is better than that. At the same time, I believe that we all know that we are having this debate at a time when the European Union has entered a very difficult period. I will be honest with you that this is not just about the debt crisis. If we look at the news of the last 24 hours from the various capitals of Europe, we can see that the German Chancellor has said that this is the most serious crisis for Europe in the last 60 years, or that British Prime Minister David Cameron calmed both the Members of Parliament and all the other people yesterday, saying that Britain's interest is still, despite everything, to continue in the European Union, because otherwise they would be like Norway, which is not in Europe, but is not in the European Union, but still have to comply with the same rules that are being written from Brussels or agreed there. That is why this debate is also taking place at a very important moment. But I think we need to look further in Estonia today than just one cycle of governance. Therefore, I believe that by approving Estonia's European Union policy until 2015, we should certainly think about what will become of Europe and what Estonia's contribution will be to creating a new European Union that is, in fact, very clearly soon to change. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance proposes that the Committee on European Union Affairs launch very in-depth hearings on this subject, which concerns Europe's future in a wider sense, not only in relation to changes to the basic agreement, the ESM or any other individual issue. If we want to be at the heart of the European Union, but we certainly want to be there and, in part, we have actually been there throughout the integration process, then we must be prepared to hold a political debate with our partners from Germany, Great Britain, Sweden and other countries. In the opinion of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, we must make the European Union, above all, an open, flexible Union working to really improve the lives of our citizens and competitive in the world. It was only those days that we heard news from the island of Hawaii, where together the Asian and Pacific Member States of economic cooperation, including our very important partner in the form of the President of the United States, who all made it very clear that the world's gang, the economy, the centre of decision is shifting from Europe to the Asia-Pacific region. This is a particularly important task and a challenge for Europe in order not to play a marginalised role in the coming decade. Many are now saying that the decade before the European Union and all of us is already almost a decade lost, and it simply has to survive somehow. I think that, in fact, every crisis offers an opportunity, and this crisis also offers us the opportunity to turn the coming decade into a decade of new opportunities. That is why the debates that I referred to are very important, and which should certainly soon end with the debate on a matter of national importance right here in this Chamber. A few years ago, we adopted the Treaty of Lisbon here. The Prime Minister also pointed out that this created a prerequisite for stronger integration and development of the European Union. After all, today we could rhetorically ask whether you know who is currently holding the Presidency of the European Union and how much Poland actually plays in the processes under way. These are questions that make you think. It is therefore quite clear that the situation is likely to lead us to a question which, more specifically, we should change in the European Treaties and which is indispensable in order to make Europe stronger. Unfortunately, I don't see the alternative here. Exchanges of governments in Italy and Greece can calm down for a moment; this can also reassure our people. I know Marianne was very nervous about Silvio leaving, but I think the questions are more fundamental. I think that the time for the model of the welfare state, as is known above all in Western Europe, is over. I think that those analysts who point out that Europe is facing problems primarily because of demographic pressure and problems are right. This must also be very much the basis for this policy, including economic and social policy, which concerns these problems. In the year Estonia joined the European Union, the average age of the population of the European Union was 37 years. In 2050, it will be 52 years old. Employees per pensioner will be twice as low by then. Growth forecasts, for example, are several times lower than in Asia, and nowhere does Germany, France or other countries appear to be able to move the European economy significantly without very fundamental changes. It is therefore quite obvious that already now, when we are preparing the next European Union budget plan, the European Union, through its Member States, should be able to react more courageously and flexibly, should respond to the changes that the European Union is actually facing, so that the adopted Europe 2020 programme can actually be put into practice to some extent, not as was the case with the Lisbon Strategy in the last decade. The Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance are of the opinion that we should already use opportunities to spend more on research, innovation, development and competitiveness across the European Union. I believe that, as a day or an hour goes by, the more consensus there will be. I believe that, also in the course of the discussions that we hold in the various committees, but above all in the Committee on European Union Affairs, we will come to solutions, or rather to proposals that Estonia could present to its colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U110	Thank you very much, Mr Mihkelson. As a representative of the Kalle Palling Reform Party, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Guests and colleagues! The European Union's policy, more generally, had a long discussion with the previous speakers. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I will put forward some emphasis on important issues for Estonia and Europe. Neither can I get past the debt crisis. It has become clear to Europe that living tomorrow's account will no longer last. The debt burden has been reduced everywhere. In order to avoid structural imbalances in the economy, the problems of preventative drafts Six pack have been completed. Still to solve the problems in time. I think it could be even tougher here. Debting countries could lead not only to the debt limit criterion but also to a more stringent deficit criterion than usual. Instead, in a situation where the debt burden is above 60%, a 3% deficit could increase the debt burden or make it impossible to reduce it. The key to solving the problems lies in the hands of national governments. Government leaders should draw up public budgets on the basis of the principle of 'costs and benefits balance', as if they were to make a family budget. It doesn't make sense to spend years more than you can make. Since the beginning of this Riigikogu, the Reform Party Group has discussed in depth the use of resources for the next budget period of the European Union. In the European Commission's proposal, the 2.5% limit on the use of cohesion funds is clearly unacceptable to us. Effectiveness should not be penalised; the objectives of using cohesion funds should not conflict. We are of the opinion that the focus of the next budget period must be on boosting economic growth and competitiveness in Estonia. In order to achieve greater and clearer impact, EU funds need to be concentrated on a few important objectives. Progress in the global value chain is key to economic growth in Estonia. What has been done and created in Estonia must become significantly more valuable and competitive. The productivity and price of work must increase, but in this case, business income and wages can grow. It is precisely the growth of people's incomes that, in the long term, will also ensure the adequacy of resources to be redistributed through national and local budgets. In order to achieve this objective, the Reform Party considers it important to focus funding on investments supporting development. In the new financial period, Estonia should be able to use funds of the same size as in the current financial period. Each euro must be used for national purposes. The sustainability of the use of funds must also be considered when it comes to learning from the experience of the use of euro money in the past periods. Too long procedural times, expensive bridge financing solutions and facilities that do not have the means to support them must not have a place in the next financial period. Money must be viewed as one of its own and used in the best possible way. The aim is not to take advantage of money at all costs, but to have items that are important to all of us. This is our contribution to the development of society. When using every euro coming from the European Union budget, we must ask ourselves: how will it help create new jobs and raise the standard of living of the people of Estonia? We must make an effort to use the next European Union funds to build transport infrastructure. Construction of the road Mäoni in Tallinn for four lines, Via Baltica, Tallinn and Tartu ring road and major intersections, Saaremaa fixed connection, Rail Baltic railway connection and expansion of Tallinn airport are the most important major objects, the completion of which would significantly improve the quality of the Estonian transport network, create conditions for entrepreneurship and job creation. In order to ensure energy security, cross-border energy interconnections must be established, as well as infrastructure necessary for the Balticconnector and LNG terminals. To ensure network quality, networks need to be renovated and smart grids, or smart grid, developed. Estonia should also make a significant contribution to the development of the new generation of the ITER nuclear power plant. In order to achieve nearly zero energy use in new buildings, consideration should also be given to channelling resources towards energy savings. When paying agricultural subsidies, we should be equal among the same ones. Focus should not be on excessive subsidisation throughout the European Union, but on the efficiency of production. The equalisation of agricultural subsidies by reducing them would benefit farmers both in Estonia and in old Europe, as it would guide them to review the efficiency of their production. Organic production should also be supported to increase consumer choice. These were just a few of the most important thoughts I could mention. Good colleagues in other political groups! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I also invite you to think along and rank priorities that are important for Estonia. Still to make life in Estonia better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U112	Thank you very much, Mr Palling. I would like to invite my colleague, Mrs Vassilyev, to speak as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! There are alarming times in Europe, both financially and, consequently, in a much wider sense. We here, and no one in Europe knows exactly what our economic outlook and economic growth will be next year and the next year. We've come close to zero in these projections. Whether we stay at zero or are threatened by a recession, the future will show us that. Although our own documents, forecasting the future of Estonia, such as the economic forecast, do not want to admit it in any way, there is nothing to do if there is an alarming time in Europe, there is also an alarming time in Estonia. This does not mean that we should not be careful, that we should not be dealing with the future of the European Union or, through it, with the future of Estonia. I think this is a very good time for Estonia to be even more active in its European Union policy than it has been so far. This does not only mean that we are voting here on the EFSF or on the ESM in the future, but we should take a much broader view of the monetary policy principles on which the European Union is founded, whether and how they will change, but also of all the other political principles on which the European Union is founded and where we are likely to need certain reforms. I think we could be more active in shaping our positions in Estonia. It is often the impression that our positions are formed in Brussels and then explained in Tallinn and Estonia, although it could actually go the other way. This is certainly a place where Estonia's European Union policy has considerable room for improvement. This, of course, does not mean that we do not need national clarification of the different decisions. The EFSF, which was discussed in the autumn hall, is unfortunately not the best example of how a rather difficult decision has been adopted in terms of content and consequences. It certainly would have needed much more clarification for this hall, but also for the whole society, including the media. This is definitely something that we, and especially the government, have a lot to learn about. I believe and hope that, in the next decisions, the explanation work will be more comprehensive and the result will be more understandable. If you stop at the EFSF for a moment, I will say that the Social Democrats here gave the coalition their help in both legal and substantive terms. I believe that this decision was the right one in itself. Although it is quite difficult to discuss ex post what would have happened if the countries had not granted EFSF guarantees. However, we do now have a little hint of what could have happened, perhaps we know how the markets reacted to the news when the Greek Prime Minister had the idea of putting the whole aid package into a referendum, and what the reaction of the markets was when there was a risk that EFSF money would not reach Greece and Greece would not be dealing with the cuts. I believe that this is quite similar to the situation that could have happened if the European countries had not reached an agreement among themselves or, for example, the Estonian Parliament would not have given this guarantee. For us as social democrats, it will certainly also be extremely important what the next budgetary period for the European Union will be. There is certainly an important keyword here for agricultural subsidies. The government has set an ambitious target for direct payments in Estonia to be 90% of the European Union average by 2020. At the same time, it is a good way to assess how effective and strong our government's policy towards Europe is, whether or not we meet this objective. Certainly, agricultural subsidies are not the only important aspect that concerns the next budget period. Next year, it is undoubtedly necessary to set national priorities so that it is clear what we want to achieve, what the purpose of using this money is and what the principles are. Although the Social Democrats undoubtedly attach great importance to asphalt, we do believe that asphalt should not favour the brains, and so should the objectives of using this money. Not only do we need to boost euro money and ensure that Estonia is increasingly competitive in the European Union and in the world, but also by national means. Our success in Europe and in the world will not be based on whether our income tax is 1% or 2% lower than today. Our success must be based on intelligent, creative, active people. In this endeavour, we have focused very much on higher education and we have actively started to reform here (it is a little bit stuck, we can see how it goes on), but we have forgotten early childhood education, we have forgotten that parents should be able to invest in their children so that children can be potential entrepreneurs of the Estonian economy in the future. This will inevitably mean a significantly greater contribution to these future economic growers long before they reach university. I am talking about both kindergarten places and children's benefits. In itself, investing in children is extremely long-term, but it is also the most profitable investment that the state can make. I think that Estonia should take a good step forward in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-15_U114	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting's over. We'll continue tomorrow. Then Kadri Simson will be the first representative of the Centre Party Group. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you very much to everyone who performed! Thank you very much to the Prime Minister and Taavi Clothes. Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
