ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U1	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government of the Republic! Good guests! Let's start the June 1st briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 51 members of the Riigikogu have been registered as present, 50 are missing. Good fellows! The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Eight issues have been registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U2	We come to the first question put by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip answers this and the question is about child protection. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! We have an analysis of the 2003 Child Protection Act, which says that it is declarative and does not regulate anything. At the same time, child protection legislation in other countries is primarily applied. The Government's action plan is only foreseen at the end of 2013, so ten years after the Act was rendered invalid and the new and modern Child Protection Act was brought before the Riigikogu. Hence my first question: as Prime Minister, would you be willing to give the Minister of Social Affairs an obligation or order to bring the draft to the grand hall of the Riigikogu this autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U4	Thank you. All in good time. Riigikogu, a highly respected Riigikogu, has often been accused of too lightly amending laws. In my opinion, ten years for the life of one law is not enough, but it is not too much. We have some laws in Estonia that have been in force for 20 years, and there has been no need to change them. One of the most embarrassing laws that has not been amended throughout the Republic of Estonia's independence is the Farm Act. So there are some other laws that are currently in force in Estonia. In their case, I understand that there is already a purely formal need for change, but that we amend laws every year, I do not consider it right. Ten years is a perfectly reasonable period of law. There must be some legal certainty, and I believe that in Estonia laws are mostly amended because of the matter, when there is a need, and not because some kind of company has found that the law adopted by the honourable Riigikogu is not suitable for anything. Well, there are analysts like that and there are different ones. I wouldn't rely on one group to make such a fundamental assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U5	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U6	Prime Minister! I'd like to ask for more. Last time we received data from 2007 on child poverty, according to the OECD report. This figure was 12.4% in Estonia at the time, before the economic crisis. How much it is now, we can't tell, we can only guess. For example, the number of children living in Tallinn in the last two years has doubled. How big do you think this real poverty will be and when will these new family and other studies be made public? These studies have probably been conducted, but we don't know the results. Or have they not been made? Do you think it is right that during the first year and a half, children receive 3/4 of the children's benefits that are even intended for their lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U7	Thank you. I am convinced that those in need must receive support. The benefits are certainly not effective. The Estonian social welfare system has become quite effective and particularly effective in the last three years. When comparing the share of people living at risk of poverty in the Member States of the European Union before social benefits are paid, Estonia would be among the latter. If the social benefits paid by the state are also taken into account, it appears that the share of people at risk of poverty in Estonia is lower than the average of the euro area and lower than the average of the 27 Member States of the European Union. The latest data published by Statistics Estonia also indicate that the share of people at risk of poverty in the European Union has decreased most rapidly in Estonia. If I'd known you were gonna ask me that, I would have taken up the numbers, but that reduction was about 4 percentage points. I am now asking not to quote it in the future, but the decrease was from around 19.6% to 15.8% or from 19.8% to 15.6%, such numbers have been memorized by me. Thus, the Estonian social benefit system is already relatively effective and any accusations about the fact that money for children is well paid during the first and a half years (parent benefits are not intended for children but for parents) and that the rest of the years, let the child see how he gets, is not at all true. Yes, we will not pay any extra support in the rest of the years, but people in need will receive help from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U8	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, first point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! I do not agree that an inoperable law should regulate our child protection for ten years. I would remind you that the Child Protection Act entered into force in Estonia in 1993 and was declared unusable in 2003 because it does not have an operational part. If you go further from here, you can find a study on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which shows that most officials exposed to children's rights do not know where child abuse and violence can occur. Not even what to do on one occasion or another. For example, there is no indication of what to do when a child is exposed to the signs of abuse, of whether they have any right or obligation to intervene, of who to turn to, who should be informed, whether to speak orally or in writing, and so it is the easiest way not to intervene. Definitely proper child welfare...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U10	Heljo, your question, please, time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U11	As your prime minister and the entire government union, doesn't child protection matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U12	Thank you. Let me remind you once again that the laws can be declared unfit, useless by the Riigikogu and not by any so-called expert group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U13	Thank you. This countdown was a technical failure at the moment. Please, Heljo Pikhof, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister! The European Children's Strategy says that the impact on children of any action or legislation needs to be analysed. In all cases, we must be guided, above all, by the interests of the children. The sociology of children and young people was well-off in Estonia at the time, but now not much is heard of the research. Estonia stands out among the Member States of the European Union in terms of the least pleasant schooling, subjective well-being of students and school violence. My question is: why do we lack solid statistics on children's health, living conditions, education, their concerns, opinions and needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U15	Thank you. Statistical data, statistical analysis, could be more in any country at any time than there is, of course the shortage is screaming and striking, both for us and elsewhere. But I thank Statistics for filling out one gap this morning! They have published a press release that dissects children's living conditions, and it makes clear that the share of families who consider their living conditions to be at least satisfactory has increased very rapidly over the last ten years, and that the share of those who consider their families' living conditions to be unsatisfactory has decreased. For example, the share of people, their families, who considered the living conditions of their families unsatisfactory, was about 10% of all families ten years ago, now 5%. The changes have been very significant, but with this example, I would like to refute such a comprehensive statement that we do not have true statistics. This statistics are available, it is necessary to visit the homepage of Statistics Estonia and it provides sufficient data to draw conclusions on the financial situation of children and families. But I also admit that I would like to know more, not only about children or families, but at all, for example, most of all, I would like to know statistics on the population. However, the ability of the taxpayer to pay for the acquisition of information is limited and we cannot afford everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U16	The last issue registered on-site on this subject. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U17	What is the message from the Prime Minister to the Riigikogu and the people on Children's Protection Day? Can you confirm, Prime Minister, that every child has a happy childhood in Estonia in a Member State of the European Union, and if this is not the case, what will you personally do to ensure that there is a happy childhood here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U18	Thank you. It will be impossible to answer that question within two minutes. If you now answer the most critical part of this question, whether every person in Estonia is guaranteed a happy childhood, then the answer is, of course, no. There can be no mention of a special feeling of happiness when 178 children's parents are deprived of their parental rights during the year, there can be no mention of any happiness for all people, for all children, when 460 children are taken away from their family during the year. These are very large figures, given that we have just under 16,000 children in a year. In other words, the field of work is wide for all Estonian childguards, the field of work is wide for members of our government and members of the parliament to improve the situation of children in Estonian society. And we should not be comforted by the fact that other Member States of the European Union, the OECD Member States, have similar problems in the euro area. Comparing with others should not reduce our willingness to act.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U19	Thank you. I shall finish the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U20	Let's go to the next subject. The second issue today is the municipal income base. The question has been asked by Riigikogu member Kadri Simson to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U21	Thank you. Minister of Finance! The final chapter of the IRL and Reform Party's government union programme, entitled "Local administration', has, among other things, made a promise that, as a general trend, the role of local authorities in shaping their own tax revenue must be significantly increased, instead of the small local tax revenues today, the high share of state subsidies and so-called local government taxes. Such a much greater role should logically mean that when you drafted the Government Union Treaty, you did not just mean local taxes such as road and street closure taxes and advertising taxes, but some new revenue generated at the level of the government. As Minister of Finance, how would you explain that promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U22	Thank you. Well, how am I gonna explain? The Coalition Agreement is one agreement on values that are pursued and developed. I don't have any drafts to show you right now. In the few months or weeks that we have had to discuss the application of such values, we have talked mainly about it this morning, too, by the way, how to deal with this part of income tax, whether the compensation mechanism should be an increase in the percentage of income tax, or whether it will take another form, i.e. through the Equalisation Fund. I, as you know, have preferred this second position, but there are no decisions to be made here. In any case, this is a very fundamental choice in which discussions continue. I know that the coalition has exactly the opposite conviction, who think that it should actually be a priority to restore the percentage of income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U23	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U24	Thank you. Minister of Finance! I would like you to continue to develop this idea, which also sounded from this very government box on Monday. In particular, there was a commitment to raise the share of income tax held by cities and municipalities to the level prior to the 2009 cuts. As a time definition, the Prime Minister used the words 'ample head'. Does this 'ample head' mean that it is actually being discussed that the share of income tax received by local governments could increase to 11.93% in the state budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U25	Thank you. I don't know what you heard in the government box on Monday, it must have been some random bypass sound. The Prime Minister should still express his own opinions. I don't know how to comment on it like that. I don't think he was so much in this box, or, if so, in private. I guess it wasn't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U26	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, the second point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U27	It seems to me that the Prime Minister, after all, went to that box and even left his verbatim. But I'm asking you what you think. A year ago, you recommended that a regular land assessment be carried out as a matter of urgency at the meeting of the Cabinet. The last land valuation was carried out in 2001 and this price will shape the land tax rate. The Ministry of the Environment should probably update prices 10 years ago next year, and experience tells us that this means an increase in prices. For example, the regular valuation of the land in 2001 resulted in three times the price of the land in the city centre of Tartu. We have been discussing the Land Tax Act here in the Riigikogu for several days, and we have listened to the vague promises that the exemption from the land under residential residence will in some way be compensated for by towns and municipalities. Do you also consider the version that all compensation is a new valuation of the land, which would simply result in the payment of several times the land tax on those with a plot larger than the limit of 1500 square metres?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U28	Thank you. I would rather develop the idea of whether the Head of Government will give a speech on Mondays in the cabinet of members of the government. No, I don't! I didn't go in the old days, and I didn't see him this week either. As far as these assessments are concerned, this is not the competence of the Minister of Finance. Finding out the market value of the land is in itself relatively important, but it is also a big venture. As far as I am concerned, we do not have a decision in the government as to whether or not this evaluation will take place. If you are now talking about either an increase in prices or an increase in taxes, it is not the question of the tax law which coefficients we are applying there, and there are also decisions by local government councils. Don't underestimate the councils, they'll probably make the smartest decisions. Not all of them, but some of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U29	Thank you. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question also concerns the subject of land tax time and again, and this is the subject of the draft abolition of the land tax on the land under home country. By losing it, municipalities lose an important part of their income base. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law does not contain a clear promise or mechanism for compensating the municipalities. Yesterday, when there was a debate on this draft right here in this Chamber, Urmas Reinsalu confirmed that compensation would take place. I will ask you, as Minister, and I will also expect your personal opinion on whether and how this compensation will happen to the local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U31	Thank you. After all, the decision of the Riigikogu is what ultimately decides the matter, and if Urmas Reinsalu said so, I will not say anything else here. Such opinions are currently in the government union, but a specific mechanism has not been agreed, after all, these yesterday's answers could be understood. However, 2013 is where the problem comes in financial terms, and we are now calm. I do not consider it necessary to discredit the text of the law in this regard; there is a lot of other work to be done with this text. This is still a political promise and, in my opinion, a natural constitutional move or a move according to the constitutional principle is such that the government not only warns against doing something with land tax, but also prevents a significant reduction in the local government's budget. This is a political promise and I think it is also a constitutional principle that defends the court. So there's no point in doubting it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U32	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I would like to continue with the question put by Mrs Toobal. The land tax exemption is largely to be won by the residents of private homes who live on their property, and if there is some kind of hole in it, it will be filled with one mechanism or another, but probably with a load that will be paid by all the rest of the people. The question is that this is the way most people who live in apartment buildings support people who live in their own homes. My specific question: I think you talked about this yesterday, but please refresh my memory, how many percent of the population will benefit from this land tax exemption, or how many percent of the population live in private homes?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U34	Thank you. I don't know that number right now. We are currently carefully dealing with all kinds of numbers and we are also hoping to present our analysis to the legislator. But you didn't make a pretty good claim. The residents of the apartment buildings pay land tax. In a real situation, a tax claim is not made if it is less than 50 kroons, if I am not mistaken. You could say that this money, too, is about subsidising someone. That's not the way I'm gonna do it. In the case of this land tax, the main question is whether it is feasible and what is this method to make it feasible. After all, I myself have defended for many years what this dispute is here, as if it were inside a party, the view that the owner of the land or the owner of the territory must also contribute directly to the local territorial organisation. But the question is, how much, what is this achievable rate? This argument is always political. The current draft, which has been submitted to the Riigikogu by coalition parties, has meant this second principle, which is also important. In the case of home, land tax pressure is also a social issue, not just an economic issue and not just a budget issue. You've been working on these nuances for a long time, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U35	Thank you. Since I have already mentioned that two questions are being asked on the ground, we are now finishing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U36	Let's go to question three. Today's third question is on the implementation of the Emergency Act and the answer is Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. The question has been asked by Riigikogu member Neeme Suur. Please, Neeme the Great, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U37	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister for Justice. At the opening session of the Riigikogu, the President of the Republic said such words: 'But if the economy is hit by a severe fall, when a heavy snowfall or strong wind stops traffic, leads electricity and flies roofs, our country starts to tear. The state is helpless at the very moment when citizens rely on its help and support. We have optimized him too much at times. It's a quote from the president's speech. I know that the implementation of the Emergency Act is actually the subject of the Ministry of the Interior, but since the Ministry of Justice was the head of the Ministry of Emergency Act, that is why my question is to the Minister of Justice. In preparing the draft, the Ministry considered the crisis management network of local and regional committees and the Republican Crisis Committee to be sufficient and the county crisis committees were abolished.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U38	Your time is up. Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U39	How many local government crisis committees have been set up today and how do you assess their capacity and readiness to carry out the tasks assigned to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U40	Thank you. Honourable questioner! You rightly stated that this is essentially the property of the Minister of the Interior, and I can make a more general assessment. Since I had a conversation yesterday with specialists from the Ministry of the Interior in this field, I know that the Ministry of the Interior is doing an analysis of this law that has been in force for two years. As Minister of Justice, I can only welcome this and say that before and after the laws, as Estonia's legal policy in the future envisages, there must be an analysis. This analysis also addresses the impact of the law through changes in various structures. As I know, at least from past experience, it has been said that maybe three or four of all county elders were interested in county crisis committees. However, the real way of life is that these situations are dealt with by rescue, medical and other areas, and not by the committees themselves; the committees are dealing with prevention, as you probably know, and they are already divided on a regional basis. I'm saying this analysis is coming, and I think this analysis is coming from the Home Office. All experts, experts and people with experience in this field will be involved in the analysis. As far as the introductory part of this question is concerned, the first half of it certainly cannot agree with the fact that the country has been thinned off at the expense of salvation. There's been a lot of commitment to the rescue. So these claims are obviously not accurate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U41	Thank you. Two questions registered on the spot, please. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U42	Minister of Justice! The court proceedings in the Republic of Estonia today stretches from years to years. I wonder if the Ministry of Justice is planning any measures to bring legal proceedings within the normal time frame. I've even heard that any trial could end in a hundred days.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U43	Thank you, dear questioner. That's right, that's the plan. The new Government of the Republic also provides in the Coalition Agreement that the proceedings will continue for a hundred days. There are quite a few ideas for that. Today, however, I am clearly speaking about things in preparation and in the phase of the idea, because I personally consider it very right, and in the Ministry of Justice, such an attitude has been taken that before the draft law is completed, we will discuss it with the interested parties. One idea relates to the same question that the courts have to deal in essence with Pinkerton's work and look for people who do not want or do not want to take part in the proceedings. That's one side. The other side is the specialisation of courts, because we know that many of the same procedures could be completed much more quickly if there were some specialisation, there would be'standards', uniform procedures. The third half is definitely human resources. The judges are, let's say, the summits of the judiciary, but there are a lot of people in their background who are doing this job. The rise in the salaries of judicial officials cannot go much ahead of the general wage increase in Estonia, but it is certainly also one of the places we would like to contribute to in the justice system. So by taking these measures, which I consider quite likely, we will probably get to that hundred days. I have talked about this with the barrister's office, the courts, the prosecutor's office, and all the other people involved. I'm going to say, in half, that only one person has said that this can't be done, and one person has suggested that we change the statistics, that it will arrive a hundred days faster. The rest have agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U44	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U45	Thank you, Mr President. I am a member of the new Riigikogu and a member of your new Riigikogu board. I read in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act that questions about Question Time must concern the subject that is being discussed in Question Time. I did not understand how this question put by Valdo Randpere concerned the implementation of the Emergency Act. Maybe the chair will explain it to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U46	Thank you. Yes, it is true that we are asking questions according to the topics, but as President of the sitting, I did not intervene at the time of the question, neither the questioner nor the answerer. So for those three minutes, we just improved our knowledge. Next question, please! Neeme Big, first point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U47	Thank you, Madam President. When the Emergency Act was created, the Ministry of Justice not only provided the Ministry of the Interior with a legal service, but also developed a network for crisis management. In the course of the HOS proceedings, the Ministry of the Interior proposed to the Ministry of Justice that the county crisis committees should be maintained. The Ministry did not take into account the proposal and replied that, given the planned changes in the administrative organisation of the State, the establishment of a county crisis committee would be impractical. That is why I would ask: what proposed changes in the administrative arrangements of the State were those referred to by the Ministry and when could these changes enter into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U48	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, these changes in administrative arrangements are not mysterious, they are still the same changes in life that have already been made and which I referred to in my previous reply. These so-called actual workers, i.e. rescue, medical and police workers, have already made some kind of division across Estonia. It has also created regional crisis committees. In the past, it was as if this level, which has an overview of local governments and everything else, should be near the county and county. Today it has been brought to a different level, a regional level. As I said, the Home Office is doing an analysis of how it has been implemented, whether there are any bottlenecks. I certainly cannot agree with the question of whether the Ministry of Justice has prepared an emergency law over the Head of the Ministry of the Interior. My information says that it was still an agreement between the ministers at the time, a common political understanding. I think that if, as a result of the analysis, there is something that can be done to improve the rescue work, we will certainly take this opportunity, particularly if the Ministry of the Interior proposes it. But I can't accept that salvation doesn't work in any way or that there's something mysterious about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U49	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U50	Thank you, Madam President. It's a very specific question. In the process of processing the Act, the Ministry of Justice referred to the plan for optimising the administration of the State. What plan is it, where can it be read from, and how is its implementation progressing?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U51	Thank you. I might have to say the same thing for the third time. Actually, it's the same everyday practice we already have. I suppose there's no hidden plan, all the documents that concern it are available. If you want any future plans for the administration of the state, I think they will come in the future and, above all, you should ask the Minister for Regional Affairs about them. But once again, within the framework of this specific law that we are talking about here, it is primarily the division of structures which are responsible for rescue operations and various tasks in this area, on a regional basis. It used to be like the idea that the mayor would put these things together. Like I said, the county elders who actually took an interest in it and dealt with it were three or four out of 15. In real life, they have long been replaced by regional or local rescue chiefs involved. So here's the conclusion. Perhaps the new law is more about life and, let's say, about salvation by the way the country has evolved. So I don't think it's bad at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U52	Thank you. Now there are two other issues registered on the ground, and this issue will not be dealt with further. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is from the heading that an old well should not be closed until the new one is ready. As we know, we have crisis regulation in cooperation with the authorities. Given that the subject of administrative reform can still stand for a very long time, and knowing that the county elders have an obligation under the Government of the Republic law to organise cooperation between local authorities, would it not make sense, in the interests of the security of the local population, to restore the county's crisis management capacity and county crisis committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U54	Thank you. You see, real life in this law is also like this, I believe that it is not unknown to you, that the rescuers and the same structures that are state-owned are still working on the side of salvation. These crisis committees, which you are talking about, are involved in prevention, from local to Republic level, in the prevention and reflection of various threats. This is the point of today's law and how the Ministry of the Interior sees crisis management. So in this sense, I dare not say today that it makes sense to restore the county work. The current structure is working, and I dare not say that we are going to dismantle the Rescue Board or anyone else on the basis of new principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U55	Thank you. Please, Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U56	Thank you. I understand the concerns of former country elders, because it was one of the things the mayors got the extra if my memory wasn't fooled. But my question about this law is that there are civil emergencies in the Emergency Act and, at the very beginning of this law, defence-related situations are excluded. We have a solid plan in the work plan and coalition agreement to begin a change in the laws of the state defence of peace and wartime. I would like to ask the Minister's view that, along with this package, the emergency situation should also be considered as such in the broadest sense and the emergency law should be similarly integrated with the new texts of basic national defence laws that are coming. Can you relate an emergency to martial law? Is there a connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U57	Thank you. At least I know that when this law was processed, there was a difference between an emergency and an emergency. That's probably what a good questioner knows. What's the difference? That's just the difference between terms. The emergency situation is a natural disaster or some sort of major accident, but the emergency is, for example, a mass riot of prisoners in my field or something like that. As I said, I consider it a good practice to analyse the practice prior to the adoption of the laws and after the adoption of the laws. I know the Home Office is doing this analysis, this law has been in force for two years, and this analysis is coming. They have promised that analysis will be available by the beginning of August. Perhaps it would be reasonable to look at this issue as a result of all this analysis, which also concerns the question of former farmers. If you say in advance some fossilized attitudes, it doesn't make sense to carry out an analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U58	Thank you. I will conclude on the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U59	Let's go to the next subject. Today's fourth question is to Minister for Finance Jürgen Ligi about the limitation of the commitment of local authorities. The author of the question is Inara Luigas, a member of the Riigikogu. Please, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! We all know that local government leaders ache their heads for their income base. As the latest bill here in the Riigikogu shows, the income base of local governments continues to deteriorate. But not only does it make the heads of local government hurt. That's one more thing that makes a headache. As we know, local authorities have a limit on borrowing until 31 December s. a, then the limit should end. Can the Ministry of Finance say, or can you, Minister of Finance, say today in this Chamber that, after this limitation has ended, local authorities will be able to borrow next year? Projects and improvements to development plans are already being presented in local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U61	Thank you. This year, and last year and the year before, the municipalities also took a very large amount of loans. They co-financed euro projects, refinanced existing loans and everything was legal. As for next year, there will be greater freedoms. But I sure hope you don't go on borrowing. You started off with the revenue base, and you got a good chance to borrow. That's the stuff. Loan is not revenue, loan is what actually eats future revenue. With regard to the municipalities, I am still more restrained and admonishing: remember that problems may arise. I do not need to remind you, as a high-ranking legislator and member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that the law on the financial management of local authorities applies from the new year, where the rules on loans are different and more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U62	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U63	Thank you. I would like to clarify my question very simply: will this loan limit end?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U64	Thank you. The high-ranking legislator knows that better than I do. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U65	Thank you. Inara Luigas, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U66	Thank you. In fact, local authorities are put in a much more difficult situation than the government of the Republic. As we know, the state has taken the right to borrow and this year 7.9 billion Estonian kroons will be borrowed, while the government will make entries to the European Stability Mechanism and so on. Do you not think that all these laws, all the restrictions and the financial management law applicable next year will significantly limit the development of local authorities and, in this respect, financial autonomy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U67	Thank you. I wouldn't put debt and development into one sin; debts may be more of an obstacle to development. Debts can hinder development, as demonstrated by the experience of Europe as a whole. I do not agree with your assessment in the sense that the government has taken on freedom and justice. The government has only financed the necessary public expenditure when times became very difficult, but it has not rushed to borrow. However, the loan has only been made for investments and, in fact, for co-financing, just as the municipalities have done. At the same time, in the case of a government, the costs are very strongly linked by law, and municipalities have even greater room for manoeuvre in terms of budget affiliation. I am not saying that they have too much money, no one has it, but the government really does have a lot of law in terms of spending.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U68	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U69	We are going to the next, fifth question, which is the financing of culture. The answer is Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and Member of the Riigikogu Jaak Allik. Please, Jaak Allik, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U70	Mr. Prime Minister! Based on Eurostat data that the Estonian state spends most of its gross domestic product on culture in all European countries, you expressed the view in Vikerraadio that increasing efficiency in the field of culture could lead to redundancies, and you found that it was not possible to invest even more in culture. At the same time, according to Eurostat, only 1.8% of labour market participants are employed in the cultural field in Estonia, with which we are only 14th in the European Economic Area, while at the same time we are firmly in the top ten in terms of all cultural consumption indicators. The statistics published in the press last week show that the average wage in the first quarter of 2011 is 16th in the 19 comparative fields of culture, behind 167 euros, or 2600 kroons. The gross wage of graduates of higher education after graduating from school is the lowest in 19 fields of activity, i.e. 9842 kroons.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U71	Your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U72	In the light of these data, do you maintain your view that the cultural sphere should be made more effective and that there is no need for additional investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U73	Thank you. Of course, I maintain my view that it is always possible to increase efficiency in all areas of life, including culture. Under no circumstances do I agree with the statement that the Estonian state as a whole is not ready, but it is prepared in a narrow, specific field of culture. No, the Estonian state is not ready in the cultural sphere either; it needs to be built on constantly. You mentioned many figures, but you did not dispute the fundamental argument that Estonia spends the highest amount of resources on the cultural sphere as a percentage of gross domestic product compared to the Member States of the European Union. This claim is true, this statistics are comparable. I am taking this opportunity to tell you, too, what will be the cost of these increased expenditures in the field of culture. Your question in the Eesti Päevaleht was that if education is spent more than the average in the European Union, national defence is spent more than the average in the European Union, culture is spent more than the average in the European Union, for which it will come. The answer is simple: it comes at the expense of state bureaucracy. In Estonia, the country bureaucracy is twice as low, twice as cheap as in the European Union on average. It's basically what it comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U74	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U75	Mr. Prime Minister! You have certainly visited cultural institutions and events on your travel abroad. If you see statistics according to which the Estonian government spends relatively four times more resources on culture than Germany and two and a half times more resources than Finland or Sweden, do you have any doubt that such statistics reflect something other than the country's actual financial contribution to culture, perhaps show the difference between tax systems in different countries and historical ownership relationships in the cultural sphere? Let it be explained that, in the case of institutions where the support of the state government exceeds 50% of the budget volume, there is a large majority of them in Estonia in this area, Eurostat also takes into account the total revenue of the state government, i.e. also the proceeds of the sale of the ticket and of the sponsor's assistance. However, deductions from income tax on state funds for sponsoring aid in the cultural sphere, which in Estonia is virtually non-existent due to our tax system, are not reflected in this statistics. In most European countries, however, this kind of national aid for culture is quite large, and in the United States, it is even of a major importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U76	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U77	Do you have any doubt that these statistics reflect something other than the direct contribution of the state to the cultural sphere?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U78	Thank you. No, I have no doubt about that. However, I call on you to trust Eurostat. Eurostat is a reliable statistical agency that provides comparable data between countries, and it is not expected that Estonia will be treated differently and precisely in such a way that the figures in Estonia are not comparable to those in other countries. There in your article, or was it in another article, it was also written, yes, it was in another article, that, strangely enough, the funding of political parties in Estonia is also taken into account in cultural sums and wonders whether it could be in this way anywhere else in the country, that this Eurostat is a group of dubious value and that they do not describe the countries in a comparable way. First of all, 0.1% of this 2.3% is political parties. Among the Member States of the European Union, we share the funding of our political parties by 0.1%. We are after Denmark, Finland, Spain and Italy. In most cases, Eurostat provides only comparable data between Member States. The fact that some countries are being treated differently, so that their spending is not comparable to that of other countries, we should not think. But you can't say that with 100% certainty, because anyone who does can. But this time series that we are talking about now, that is, the funding of the cultural sphere as a percentage of gross domestic product, is as long as the history of the Republic of Estonia and these data are comparable to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U79	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please, Jaak Allik, the second point to be specified! Let me remind you that there's only one minute left by the regulation, that's 60 seconds. An introduction and a question should fit into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U80	Mr Prime Minister! I am really glad that you have the same knowledge of Eurostat data as I do. Only you use them tilted. Indeed, we are among the first three in the European Union from culture, defence, education and environmental protection, public policy spending, but this has not only been achieved because of the low cost of state bureaucracy, it is a negligible number that goes there, but at the expense of being among the last in the European Union in terms of health and social expenditure. As we know, the first ones are cast and the rear ones are killed, as the Estonian proverb says. Has the government also planned any measures to raise these living spheres at least to the European Union's average?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U81	Thank you. You did not propose to reduce funding for culture and channel these funds to where they are cast, did you? Let it be said once again that not all areas can be financed at least at the European Union average level. That's not arithmetically possible. If we are to give priority to funding in one area, in another the funding must be more modest than the European Union average, if we are to take the GDP back, once again. Once again, this priority funding for culture, defence, internal security and education is largely due to the lack of bureaucracy in the country. We have one of the countries with the smallest bureaucracy in the European Union and this will be the main part. You rightly pointed out that, yes, in terms of financing health care, we are below the European Union average. In the housing sector, too, we are well below the European Union average. In the social sphere, our spending has increased very rapidly in times of crisis, and there we have now reached almost the European Union average. Perhaps we had a long-term social expenditure of 12 to 13% of gross domestic product, and we have already reached 20%. So, in terms of the share of social spending, we have come quite close to the average level of the European Union. I must say, however, that social expenditure has been increased in such a way that their effects have been quite good, which is reflected in the rapid decline in relative poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U82	Prime Minister, the time has come to answer the question. Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U83	Let's go to the next question: unemployment in Ida-Viru County. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip has been asked again and the questioner is Jevgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Riigikogu. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U84	Thank you, good manager. Mr Prime Minister! Last week, recent data on unemployment were published in Ida-Virumaa and as expected, the sad fact that unemployment in the region is still the highest in Estonia was 15.5%. But what is even more worrying is that almost half of the 12,000 Ida-Viru unemployment is in only one city, namely Narva. On the one hand, this situation is certainly conducive to illegal economic activity, such as smuggling, but even more importantly, in the longer term it will have very serious social consequences that the state will have to pay for at some point through the social system. Do you not think that the country should take emergency measures to resolve the situation responsibly and what they could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U85	Thank you. As in Estonia as a whole, unemployment and the number of unemployed have decreased rapidly in Ida-Virumaa. Only yesterday have we received data from Eurostat that tells us that the fastest reduction in unemployment in the European Union has been in Estonia. But yes, unemployment is the highest in Estonia in Ida-Virumaa. Here I would ask who we have in power in Narva? Why has nothing been done so far to make Narva and Kohtla-Järve also attractive to entrepreneurs? Because only investments, entrepreneurs are the ones that create jobs. The state's contribution to Ida-Virumaa has also been significant in this time of crisis. We devote the vast majority of our funds, both the unemployment fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs, to re-training the unemployed, to improving employment, to Ida-Viru County. But making the entire region attractive
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U86	Please, Evgeni Ossinovski, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U87	Thank you. I think it may not be very appropriate to blame local authorities because it is a democratically elected body. Can you, however, tell us how the state can help to improve the business environment? More specifically, I would like to ask about one meaningful point in the coalition agreement, namely the channelling of EAS' industrial investments into Ida-Viru County. The government's action plan indicates the deadline for completing this point in the second quarter of 2012. Given the gravity of the situation, does the Head of Government not consider it appropriate to instruct the Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, to bring this point back to this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U88	Thank you. All in good time. Not all initiatives can be implemented by tomorrow's date. In order to make effective use of resources, the use of resources must be thoroughly considered. If the aim is simply to demonstrate that the state has spent resources and not to assume that a result will be achieved, then of course, decisions can be made in a hurry. However, as the resources of the Estonian taxpayer are limited, I would refrain from doing so. As a reminder to you, the Government of the Republic has also been democratically elected, but you certainly do not have to conclude that the Government of the Republic cannot be criticised. Yeah, it could be. But you've started it perfectly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U89	Thank you. Two questions registered on the spot, please. Let's see if we can make it. The first questioner is Raivo Järvi.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U90	Thank you very much, Mr President. My question relates to the last question. I am a member of the new Narva Bastion Support Group, and it has turned out from the discussions there that the sum of the sums is precisely the sum of all kinds of subsidies that Ida-Virumaa receives from the state much more than other counties. Can you say broadly whether this is true and what this relationship is with other Estonian regions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U91	Thank you. As far as employment and unemployment are concerned, the information is certainly true, but I do not have the statistics available at the moment. At the same time, however, let us admit that, despite the considerable expenditure that the unemployment fund has made and which the Ministry of Social Affairs has done to reduce unemployment, unemployment is still the highest in this region throughout Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U92	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, one last question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U93	Thank you. Me or Mr. Ossinovski?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U94	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U95	Mr Prime Minister! The economic logic is that self-income comes from income tax for local governments, income tax depends on jobs and average wages. This means that every municipality is interested in creating jobs. There is no way that the City of Narva would have let go specifically to support this process. Are you now in this Chamber of the Riigikogu saying that it is we who are the ones who are holding back the development of employment in Ida-Virumaa and specifically in Narva? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U96	What I want to say is that investments love fair and transparent administration, investments love very low levels of corruption. Unfortunately, Estonia's comparison with Ida-Virumaa does not stand out, and this is also reflected in the limited investments made in the region. Local authorities, speaking more broadly, not only in the context of Ida-Virumaa, are particularly interested in residents who pay income tax. Unfortunately, there is a tendency in Estonia that local governments try to attract as many residents as possible to their territory who pay income tax to the local government, but they leave the problem of creating a job to the neighbouring self-government. This is what we see very vividly here in Harjumaa around Tallinn, where the problems are obvious.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U97	Thank you. I'm finishing Question Time. I see several hands are up. The subject is certainly that Mr Ossinovski could not ask his second point of clarification. In Question Time, the manager will decide who he gives the opportunity to. Now time simply hampered these opportunities, and in order for your question to be asked by as many people as possible, this choice was made. Thank you to the members of the government, thank you to the questioners. We're moving on in our day.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U98	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I have the honour to give the Riigikogu procedure a draft law supplementing § 222 of the Social Welfare Act, which would keep the income support and child support separate. Until 2005, the child benefit paid under the State Family Benefits Act was not taken into account when determining the income support. Since then, however, it is considered to be a earning income for those in deep poverty, not for those on high wages. The Social Democrats also submitted a draft to this effect a few years ago, but at that time the right-wing majority sneaked our proposal into the rearmost table drawer. The guidelines for such behaviour clearly came from the government. It was there that a Socialist amendment was put forward, on the pretext that it would take away the appetite of people to look for work and make work economically pointless. The Social Democrats do not share that view. We have been following the rhetoric of the Reform Party over the past few months, and it seems to us that they have also understood their own mistakes at the time. We give them, i.e. all right parties, also the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, an opportunity to correct the error and to support the draft Social Democrats in the proceedings in the Riigikogu. I stress: action must be taken quickly, because many families are in trouble. Time doesn't wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U100	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U101	Madam President! Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Central Party Group, I will submit a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. In short, the contents of it. There are currently over 83000 people living in Estonia who do not have health insurance. These include people who work and are paid social tax, but the law does not provide for the aggregation of social tax and therefore do not have health insurance. The purpose of the draft is to guarantee the health insurance of a person who receives employment or service charges under a debt contract for the provision of employment, services or other services, even if he or she is paid monthly social contributions in aggregate terms for at least a financial year at the monthly rate established by the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U102	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U103	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with several colleagues from the Central Party Group, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns the activities of the domain reform and the Estonian Internet Foundation. Last week, the Estonian Internet Foundation published a report on the previous financial year, which we found out that about 60,000 domains have been registered according to the new regime. Only 10% of all domain names have been registered by natural persons. We also learned that last year the total income of the organisation was 13.2 million kroons, including the Estonian Internet Foundation earned about 5 million kroons of profit. We also learned that the total wage costs of the foundation were quite high last year, representing 38.6% of the total budget. That is why we want to ask the Minister some questions and exchange views on the Internet and our domain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U104	Thank you. There are no further drafts or inquiries to be submitted. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property initiated on 30 May, the commission of which is the Rural Commission; the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Water Act, initiated on 30 May, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment, of the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on ambient air protection, initiated on 30 May, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on ambient air protection, initiated on 30 May, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the State Audit Office Act and the Audit Act, initiated on 30 May, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs; the Government of the Republic. A draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the air security mission in Iceland', submitted on 30 May, is a commission of state defence; in the Government of the Republic. The draft Act on the ratification of the Statutes of the International Telecommunications Union and the 2010 amendments to the Convention, initiated on 30 May 2010, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. The members of the Riigikogu formed the Cossack Support Group and the Support Group for teaching Estonian as a foreign language on Monday, and yesterday, Tuesday, a Support Group for Children and Families was formed. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. Currently 91 members of the Riigikogu have been registered as present, no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U105	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We are going to discuss today's agenda. Yesterday we were in the middle of a debate on the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. We'll continue the negotiations. Mr Randpere, representative of the Reform Party Group, please. Three more minutes, eight more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U106	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, while listening to the debate on the abolition of land tax, I had some thoughts and I wanted to share them with you. I'll do it now. The Reform Party has been fighting for the exemption of homeland for the last three years. I have repeatedly raised this issue as a member of the Tallinn City Council because, in honour of the truth, it came out quite clearly in the debate yesterday, and at least one reason for raising this topic has been the land tax in Tallinn, say, grotesque treatment. In 2008, Tallinn increased the tax rate by 2.5 times. Justification: the money was needed to supply Tallinn with water supply and sewerage. By 2010, these work had been done, which Tallinn was very happy to report, but the land tax rate was not reduced. Now is the time for us to do this with our coalition partners. At national level this time. I like this idea and I support it for the following reasons. First of all, the abolition of land tax from the land under home is a right and fair idea. It favors all homeowners. I am seriously surprised that the Social Democrats and the Centre Party are so eager to fight it here. Is there any way that what is good for all Estonian homeowners can harm you or your voters? I don't understand it, I say it quite sincerely. Yesterday, too, the question arose as to whether the abolition of land tax from the land under home was, in any way, a social measure or not. Basically, there is this dimension here too, because it concerns, as has been said, all homeowners. Even those who live in an apartment. Yesterday in this hall, Urve Palo and today in Question Time, Viktor Vassiliev questioned whether the landlords would pay the land tax or not. Yesterday, when Urve Palo asked his question, I looked at my tax report from the computer to be accurate and prepared. I have a small two-room apartment in the centre of Tallinn, nothing luxurious, nothing big, quite small, ordinary two-room apartment. I'm paying 75 euros for this year's land tax, it's almost 1,200 kroons. 1200 kroons per person or household is not a very small amount. I certainly do not need social assistance and, in my case, I cannot treat it as a social measure, but let us look the other way. You're saying there's nothing to do with social assistance. For example, let us talk about another 1200 kroons based on the example of Tallinn. 1200 kroons, or 75 euros, is exactly what Tallinn pays to pensioners as a so-called pension supplement. This measure is included in the social welfare expenditure included in Tallinn's budget. If this is a social measure, why is there no social measure to exempt the land under home and the savings that the owners of the apartment will have from it? In fact, I can promise you that we will not make an exemption from land tax a camel through the eye of a needle, as Tallinn has done with the receipt of this pension supplement. I'm sure it won't get that complicated. Thirdly, I like this idea because the exemption from the tax on homeland does not reduce the income of local governments. The State compensates local authorities for the loss of income. How exactly is this going to happen, it will be clear at the latest when considering the 2013 state budget. We have a plan to make this mechanism clear this year. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, do not waste your limited and deficit issues asking once and for all whether it will be compensated for to local authorities. This was confirmed to you here at the beginning of the week by the Prime Minister, which has been confirmed even by Jürgen Ligi, by me and confirmed by all coalition partners. Local authorities do not lose money because of this measure. So don't worry. Fourth reason I like this measure. The tax exemption we are proposing is simple and understandable for everyone except the opposition. Yesterday, too, the opposition challenged us why we have no real estate tax, that there is real estate tax abroad, and that is good and high. I think Lembit Kaljuvee even reminded me of his Canadian uncle, who pays $300 happily every month and can't thank him for being able to do so. I don't have any uncles, especially I don't have any uncles in Canada. However, I have lived in Sweden for a few years and I can tell you about Sweden, a country with a high tax burden. Until 2008, it was subject to a property tax of 1% of the estimated value of the property, which in turn had to be around 75% of its market value. There was a restriction on this: real estate tax in Sweden was not allowed to exceed 4% of household income at that time. This system has been amended since 2008. The real estate tax is now a utility tax, which is 0,75% of the estimated value of the real estate. But there is a ceiling: this tax must not exceed 6,000 kroons per house or 1,200 kroons per apartment. Even Sweden has a ceiling on it. We don't have any restriction or ceiling right now. We're gonna do it the other way around, but basically we're gonna free people from paying such a high tax on their homes that they should move out of the house. Of course, I think it is important, as with any other law, that the text of this law be accurate, correct and technically impeccable. I admit that this bill still needs some adjustments. It is complicated that such a legislative amendment also affects many other laws and laws. It is necessary to identify the links between them before any errors occur in practice. This draft is complicated, for example, by issues such as co-ownership, land destination, residence registration, etc. But once again and finally, the content of this matter is right and fair. Land tax must not be an instrument for confiscating people's homes. We will make this bill a good law, both in substance and form. You can count on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U107	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Kallov Kallo Centre Party Group. Three more minutes, eight more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U108	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Many of us here today are forced to deal with a misunderstanding of a few-page mixed text that has nothing in common with the usual draft law. In this regard, even the Minister of Justice of the previous government would not have dared to say that this is a very good law. It seems that some embarrassment has also been felt by his party associates, as one of the initiators is simply a faction of the Reform Party, followed by a signature. You don't have the guts to add a name. It's probably hoped that maybe not everyone knows the signature. In the case of IRL, this is not a fear, as it is a hardened author of the Gender Equality Act and the Local Government Council Election Act. The idea is good in itself and certainly pleasant for homeowners, and what can be opposed to it, but a bill could have been made to implement this idea. Doesn't the coalition really have any more competent officials in the Ministry's apparatus? The opposition must make its own drafts out of its own wisdom, but we too will find a way to consult experts. I'm not going to stop at orthographical and word mistakes, which wouldn't allow a graduate to be given a satisfactory grade. We are talking about substantive contradictions that begin with the title 'The Land Tax Exemption Act for Homeowners'. This law does not exist so far, but the first paragraph of the bill talks about the amendment of the Land Tax Act, which is essentially what this law means. Let's call it that. The Minister of Finance has also drawn attention to this in his letter. The Land Tax Act is supplemented by only one point, which has a sufficiently large impact on the income base of local authorities, of course in the direction of reducing it, as it has become the practice of the previous and current coalition. Do we find any impact analysis in the explanatory memorandum? Of course you don't. Can we find in the law a mechanism for compensating local authorities for lost income? Of course, it does not, because it is not intended to, unlike the promises of the previous speaker. It is recommended to read an explanatory note that is engulfed by literary expressions such as 'abnormal', 'imoral', etc. There is nothing there that can reasonably explain the consequences of the law's text and its entry into force. Point 6 of the explanatory memorandum seems particularly funny, but it's only funny at first glance. This point is quite unshadowed by what lies ahead for the local authorities. Its first sentence reads as follows: 'The implementation of the Law shall not entail direct State budget expenditure or revenue. ' Lyrics has been added: 'The impact of the change of law on local budgets is estimated by the Ministry of Finance to be approximately EUR 17 million, which is covered by the state budget. ' In my question in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, why is there no compensation mechanism provided for by law, the Minister of Finance replied: 'Who said that there would be compensation at all? " He added that may I read the first sentence of the sixth paragraph of the explanatory memorandum, which was mentioned earlier. As this is the coalition's most accurate statement of intent, I repeat this once again: 'The implementation of the law does not involve direct state budget expenditure or revenue. ' We have not received any answers about compensation mechanisms or sources. The answers have been evasive and unspeakable. Whether the current revenue is compensated for whether all questions have not been answered on the basis of the equal treatment principle at the same rate for all municipalities or on the basis of some other formula. Let's ask, why? The answer is very simple. It's just not meant to, because it's not meant to. Not only for the Central Party Group, but also for the Minister of Finance, there is much incomprehensible in this draft, as is apparent from his letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Due to the lack of time, it is not possible to analyse technical and substantive issues as a whole, to which the draft does not provide an answer. For example, what if the homeowner rents part of his home and receives rent income? What if the land under home is not residential land, but land for profit? What if the home is co-owned and so on? I would like to draw a political assessment from a letter from the Minister of Finance: 'According to paragraph 12 of the Action Programme of the Government of the Republic, the autonomy of the income base of local governments will be increased. The exemption from land tax on the land occupied significantly reduces the income bases of local governments and the autonomy of the income base. ' Any loss of taxes is undoubtedly a very pleasant dream, but there is no comprehensive understanding of the consequences and applications in the paper submitted. On this basis, the Centre Party Group proposes not to close the first reading 51 and to vote the draft out of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U109	Thank you. Please, Mrs Vassilyev, as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group. Three more minutes, eight more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, it is a pleasant opportunity to begin with praise. Last time I was able to congratulate the previous composition of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this time it is a good opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Finance for the very substantive and party-free assessment of this draft. In general, the Social Democrats consider content rather than form to be important, but the political title, which ignores the technical rules of this draft, perfectly sums up the content and quality of this draft. In future, I think it would make sense to keep this party propaganda and the draft explanatory memorandum stylistically separate in the interests of lawmaking. It would probably also benefit the authors of the draft explanatory memorandum, so it will certainly be easier to focus more on content and less on form. We will learn all sorts of interesting thoughts from this two - page explanatory memorandum. We learn that the land tax that has been in force so far in Estonia and, in fact, according to this bill, for almost two years at least still is not only abnormal, but also an immoral, destructive measure with social impact, a disproportionate measure in the light of the Estonian social background system, etc. Should this draft become a law, this tax will remain in force until at least 2013. If such a monstrous tax exists in Estonia, why has it been in force so far and why is it not immediately changed? The explanatory memorandum already mentioned in the previous speech also offers a rather innovative financial approach: the implementation of this draft does not involve state budget costs, while the local authorities are allowed to compensate EUR 17 million from the state budget. This is undoubtedly a rather broad line of reasoning that broadens the current logic. It is really beautiful, emotional, fictionally quite enjoyable, although indeed, as mentioned, important grammar principles do not follow a hundred percent of the text. However, it does not focus on important issues either. For example, why should two hectares be exempted from the tax in densely populated areas, which are located in rural areas, but are not towns, towns or towns, while in towns and towns this limit is 0.15 hectares? Also, why exempt commercial land from taxation on the basis of the meaning of this law if the purpose of the property is, for example, residential and commercial land and the residence of a townman is registered there? There has already been mention of why the property or real estate that serves to be released from the land tax, that is, the property that has been rented out, is also exempt from the land tax. When talking about local governments, it is important to limit the possible wave of re-registrations. A lot has been said about land tax. In fact, this issue is much wider for municipalities. According to the register of residents, the income tax received by a natural person is also known to change. This tax is the biggest source of revenue for municipalities. We have not received any analysis or explanation of this either from the explanatory memorandum or later. Very much has been said about whether, how and under what conditions the loss of income will be compensated for by local authorities, whether it is a loss of income at some point directly due to a reduction in the income from land tax, or whether it is based on some other available sources of funding, in which case it does not exactly derive from this loss of income. There have been quite contradictory opinions or thoughts on this matter from this board and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs (though not in the explanatory memorandum, because it does not reflect it). It is also important whether, to what extent and how this tax change will affect the entire real estate market, i.e. what will happen to the price of real estate if the motivation of current owners to realise real estate that they do not use is reduced. This essentially means that supply on the market is decreasing, which, according to economic logic, means price increases. These are all the questions that we have not fully understood in the explanatory memorandum and the comments that we have made since then. As the draft explanatory memorandum tells the reader, every rule and law should have a purpose and meaning. With this bill, it doesn't make any sense. According to the explanatory memorandum, the aim, given Estonia's social background system, is to reduce social inequalities and increase sustainability. This EUR 17 million, or EUR 270 million in old money, could certainly be done more effectively. It is particularly strange that such a social policy or social support measure by parties who have signed a coalition agreement that social needs should be financed from tax collection and not from non-tax collection. By this logic, this is a rather controversial approach. If there really is money like EUR 17 million, but there are no good ideas about how to solve social problems with it, then the Group of the Social Democratic Party will always agree to come here with advice and strength. It's okay to come to us. To conclude, it would probably be most honest and fairer if the authors withdrew this draft in this form. As this has not been done, it is very difficult for the Social Democratic Party to support a draft of this quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U111	Thank you. As the Estonian Central Party Group has proposed to reject the draft 51 at first reading, we are preparing for the voting procedure. I am voting on the proposal by the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax at first reading, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. 41 for and 51 against, no abstentions. The Central Party Group's proposal was not supported. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. tho June 3th at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U112	Let's go to the next item. The second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on the granting of a State guarantee to a loan between the European Investment Bank and the foundation North-Estonian Regional Hospital. Mr Jürgen Ligi, the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The government presents a draft aimed at granting state guarantees for a loan between the European Investment Bank and the North Estonian Regional Hospital. The Northern Estonian Regional Hospital wishes to borrow EUR 43.5 million from the European Investment Bank in the long term. The aim is to co-finance the extension and conversion of the project "SA North-Estonian Regional Hospital' financed by the European Regional Development Fund. The State guarantee is granted for an amount of EUR 52,2 million covering the principal payments of the loan to be granted, interest expenses, possible interest on late payments and fines. The maturity of the loan is 2035 and the interest rate is six months EURIBOR + 0,3%. The loan terms offered by the EIB are significantly more favourable than those offered by commercial banks. The loan can be taken out within four years, followed by a five-year basic payment leave. As regards the granting of the State guarantee, the Republic of Estonia will conclude a guarantee agreement with PERH. The State grants such guarantees, it must be emphasised, only in exceptional cases. At present, the balance of loans to companies with a State guarantee is EUR 10 million. The last time the Riigikogu granted the guarantee was in 2009 for a loan between KredEx and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe. The government decided to support the granting of a State guarantee because it is the highest hospital in the region, the loan granted is necessary for the completion of the project financed by the structural funds and is also taken into account in the RES, which is a public budget strategy. It should be stressed that this is part of the structural reform of the hospital network and that the aim is, however, to improve the efficiency of treatment quality. According to the Ministry of Finance, PERH is sufficiently viable during the guarantee period. The financial projections of PERH show that the hospital can ensure both the servicing of large-scale loans to finance the ERDF project and sufficient investment to ensure the sustainable management of the hospital's core business. The guarantee does not entail direct financial expenses for the State. The conclusion and administration of the guarantee do not entail significant additional costs and can be covered by the budget allocated to the Ministry of Finance. If the total loan amount (EUR 43,5 million) has been mobilised, a guarantee premium will be received in the state budget as revenue. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U114	Thank you. You have a few questions. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U115	Thank you. Good minister! State guarantees are granted in exceptional circumstances. I am very pleased that this guarantee has been granted by a health institution. In addition to PERH, there are two higher-stage hospitals in Estonia: Tartu University Hospital and Tallinn Children's Hospital. There are also renovations in several central hospitals. The explanatory memorandum sets out ten reasons why PERH received this State guarantee. If other health institutions look at their investment opportunities and they meet these ten points, do other hospitals also have the hope of obtaining state guarantees?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U116	Thank you. Don't get your hopes up. As I emphasised, these guarantees are granted by the State only in exceptional cases. We also had long disputes about this guarantee. As regards the main analogue, the University of Tartu Hospital, he has already received similar funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U117	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Eiki Nestor, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on Monday in a bleak consensus and in a spirit of consensus. All supported the government's proposal. I am talking so much about what happened in the Commission that there was only one question. Indeed, a few years ago, there was also one step in the construction of a single hospital, which was certainly a very good decision in terms of access to and quality of healthcare. This took place in connection with the construction of the hospital in Pärnu. In monetary policy, the solution proposed at the time was total profanity. It was also then considered that this hospital would pay the construction costs from its revenue base. A few years later, they just cut it all off and forgot. As a result, this bill also raised the natural question of whether the North Estonian Regional Hospital is capable of fulfilling its own commitments. The Finance Department officials, along with the Minister, convinced us that they were. There is no wonder here either, already because the turnover of the North Estonian Regional Hospital is definitely several times higher than that of another hospital, for example. I consider it my duty, on behalf of the Commission, to remind you, in the event that you do not find this in the explanatory memorandum, that pursuant to § 104 (15) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of this draft as a decision when we go to the final vote. Only then will this bill become a decision. The procedural decisions are as follows: today, the first reading is closed and the deadline for submitting amendments is set at 12 noon on 3 June. The Commission shall endeavour to adopt this decision as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U119	Thank you. No questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the leading committee is to complete the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the granting of a State guarantee to a loan between the European Investment Bank and the foundation North-Estonian Regional Hospital. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. tho June 3th at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U120	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Payment Institutions and E-money Institutions and related laws and the Law on Investment Funds initiated by the Government of the Republic. According to § 98 (1) of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the draft has been submitted to the first reading as amended. Mr Jürgen Ligi, the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This draft aims to update the regulations applicable to e-money institutions. They are based on the European Union Directive. As a result of the changes, the administrative burden on e-money institutions will be reduced and the activities related to the launch of money will be simplified. The amendments consist in particular of the following: First of all, the initial capital requirement, i.e. the initial capital needed for establishment, is reduced from EUR 1 million to EUR 350000. It is also possible to establish an electronic money institution in the form of a private limited-liability company, so far only the form of a public limited-liability company was allowed. It also simplifies the requirements for where an electronic money institution can hold its money. E-money institutions may also engage in activities other than issuing e-money, such as lending. The definition of e-money will be made clearer and more understandable. This definition includes e-money held on prepaid cards or other electronic channels that are stored on a computer server or that are e-money based on other software solutions. The basis for issuing and withdrawing e-money will be specified, which will improve consumer protection. Under the changes, consumers can exchange e-money into real money at any time. The issuance of electronic money is subject to authorisation by the Financial Supervision Authority or another supervisory authority of a Member State of the European Union. Until now, the Financial Supervision Authority has not issued an authorisation for an electronic money institution to any person in Estonia. There are several reasons for this: Estonia is at the forefront of using card payments in Europe, and we also have a very good level of e-banking. Those are probably the determining reasons. We just don't have a strong need for it. It must be said that e-money has not been very popular in other countries. This is also the reason why this regulation has been liberalised. In summary, the effects of relaxing this regulation in Estonia are not easily predictable, but the opportunities will become more favourable, that is certain. In Estonia, it must be said, there are e-money institutions in other Member States today, but they do not offer their services on a massive scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U122	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. I ask for a presentation of Inara Luigas, member of the Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was on the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 30 May. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, appeared as the initiator. The explanation was also given by Thomas Honourable, Head of the Financial Markets Department of the Ministry of Finance. The aim of the draft is to modernise the regulation on the issue and use of e-money and to bring it into line with Directive 2009/110/EC of the European Union. On 27 May, the Ministry of Finance also submitted an annex to this draft law. The amendments concerned the activities of investment funds and their alignment with the European Union Directive. The following issues were addressed in the Committee on Finance: They asked which legal forms could be issued, i.e. issued e-money. Initially, Estonia had taken a more stringent position on the issue of e-money and only public limited liability companies were granted the right to do so, but now e-money can also be issued by private limited liability companies. It was asked whether fictitious persons could also issue e-money and provide services. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that the previous laws on money laundering have also regulated the legal order in such a way that services can no longer be provided on behalf of fictitious persons and that the provision of services must be verified as to the identity of the customer. They also asked whether there were institutions in Estonia that issue e-money. Both the explanatory memorandum and the explanations revealed that there are no e-money issuing institutions in Estonia. The local authorities were asked what the possibility of using e-money was. This was answered by saying that municipalities could use e-money to organise public transport, for example. The Committee on Finance took the following decisions: to send the draft to first reading as amended, to put the draft on the agenda on 1 June and to close the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 June at 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U124	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the commission is to complete the first reading of the draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related laws and investment funds law. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 6 June at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U125	We come to today's fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Jürgen Ligi, the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! From 1 January 2012, this draft aims to stop the use of specially labelled liquid fuel for stationary engines and for mining, forestry and construction. The aim of the reform is to reduce fraud, increase revenue from the state budget, reduce administrative costs and administrative burdens and make industry support more targeted and needs-based. Under the current system, the use of specially labelled fuel is permitted in almost all areas where the Directive allows it. However, the distribution of subsidies on the basis of the volume of fuel burning is in principle neither moral nor effective. Support for these areas, one can say, has arisen by analogy with support for agriculture, but agriculture is known to be a very widely subsidised industry, while others do not have the same situation. Given the few exceptions to the tax system that we have, we have been exceptionally generous, more generous than the European Union's Member States on average. Practice has shown that it is becoming more and more expensive. In addition to the expansion of the use, consumption has also increased. The preferential rate has made specially labelled fuel significantly cheaper for consumers, and this will certainly not contribute to energy savings. The existing system has also led to high administrative costs for the Tax and Customs Board. It is known that supply chain control is quite complex, there is a need for thighs and many other operations to avoid misuse. To sum up, the aim is to stop painting fuel at all. At the same time, support schemes are needed in certain sectors, such as agriculture, and the heating of homes needs to be addressed. There are ideas. Support schemes are currently being developed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Therefore, we will come here in the autumn with a new regulation, which also deals with ways of compensating, in areas where compensation seems reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U127	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! In fact, this is a tax increase. You said the special fuel marking was going to be abolished. According to the Ministry of Finance, it is 70 million euros, or more than one billion kroons a year. Many professional associations have addressed the Commission and the Ministry of Finance, saying that they do not support this draft. What would you tell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U129	Thank you. In short, I say that I do not support them. I am not ashamed to say that this is indeed an increase in a certain tax, in other words, a withdrawal of a certain tax advantage. I have perhaps been saying for ten, perhaps 15 years, that encouraging the burning of fossil fuels must not be a way of supporting any sector of the economy. It is immoral and it also inhibits efficacy. I have also said the same thing when I am raising my housewarm VAT, and I am not ashamed of it. I think it's a fair game. However, taxes must be collected and collected to finance social expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U130	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! There are no transitional provisions in the draft law governing the use of fuel supplies already acquired after 1 January 2012. Do you consider it possible to provide for a transitional period so that the blue fuel purchased on a legal basis can also be used after 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U132	Thank you. That's actually an interesting question. We need these provisions if we intend to continue to control the use of this fuel and to punish it for infringements. I didn't think that we should keep the coercive on the job, somehow repressing the supplies we've ever acquired. But let's consider it. In the course of the procedure for the draft, we can consider all of this. I would remind you that in the case of tobacco, we are linked to tax stamps and that is why we have given a certain transitional period. In the case of fuel, a sensible approach means, in my opinion, that there are also tanks that are not infinitely many. But that's a good question. I haven't thought about it myself. I think the officials have been wondering more about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U133	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U134	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In the case of excise duties on fuel, one ideological aspect is that the money that is collected by excise duty goes to the construction and repair of roads. Mines and careers build their own roads and keep them in order. What do they do that for?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U135	Thank you. They'll do it out of their sales revenues. This, too, is a subject that I have repeatedly commented on. I consider, in principle, the provision of the Act on Excise Duties to be incorrect, which relates excise duties on fuel only to the placing of asphalt. The burning of fossil fuels has a very large impact on the natural environment, natural resources, etc. We shouldn't pretend it's done just to put asphalt on. We are still in the 21st century and we have to admit that by the end of this century most fossil fuels will have been burned, the climate will be much warmer and the tensions will be up hard. It's all because of what we've been doing here for centuries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U136	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U137	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Finance! I have a very simple question. I like your argument about efficiency. I want to know what is happening to these certain fuel concessions in other European countries. It should not be the case that our companies are placed at a competitive disadvantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U138	Thank you. We'll analyze it. This is also one of the reasons why we have come forward in two stages. These companies are quite clearly characterised by turnover on the domestic market, not by areas which are intrinsically subsidised. There are additional costs in a certain area, a certain area that has to be denied must raise the price, but I think this price component is fair, there is no immorality or contention in it, it goes to save the environment and resources. Whoever calculates a little, for example, finds that a more sustainable engine is better, may even win financially. I am, of course, theorizing, but the aim is to direct consumers towards sustainable behaviour. The basic idea of excise duty is this: not just to raise money, but to direct consumers and producers to sustainable behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U139	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Whether you like it or not, the use of specially labelled fuel in agriculture is likely to continue, thanks to support schemes. Forestry and fisheries are closely linked to agriculture and rural areas. What do you think your attitude and approach to such a reform does not place forestry and fisheries in an unequal competitive position?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U141	Thank you. Forestry is an area where I am not afraid of such a thing. Our advantage is the existence of a forest. After all, we are also intervening in forestry at national level. Here are the options that have been discussed in relation to this draft, for example, the revision of the load limits. I haven't received a direct answer. There are private forest subsidies, and the next bill also contains a small amount of income tax relief. The foresters will not escape the extra costs, but I say it would be an immoral complaint again if someone claims that forestry does not burden you, unless it is a matter of burdening roads. Forest roads are one of the ugliest things in our natural environment, and large trucks are one of the serious burdens on roads and a high risk of road safety. In forestry, I think we still have to look for solutions different from this. In the case of fisheries, we will look more closely at how these things are organised in the autumn. I do not think that price competition in fisheries is essential. The main competition is still linked to quotas and fishing rights, competition is increasingly heading there, and competition is also important for the quality of processing. Just to get the fish at a lower cost is not the real future for fishermen, because the fish resources are shrinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U142	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U143	Mr. Minister! I also ask a question about the forest industry. Could you tell your colleagues in the European Union to do as your ideology does, which cannot be disputed very much? In fact, Sweden and Finland still have an advantage, as the forest industry uses a cheaper form of heating there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U144	Thank you. I can certainly do this as soon as this issue reaches the agenda for the meeting of finance ministers. Taxation issues are under discussion there, unfortunately the issue of tax incentives too rarely. At a meeting with the European Tax Commissioner, I have convinced him that such consumption tax exemptions should be banned. They violate the functioning of the common market and also favour waste. In fact, they are almost always socially misdirected. He's been listening to me for a long time, and then he's said yes, he's totally in.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U145	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U146	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Today we have two tax proposals under discussion. One is talking about the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and the other is about the additional tax credit. If we look at the effects of these laws, we will see that both laws have an impact of EUR 70 million. One influence is, of course, on the plus side; it concerns the law on the special labelling of liquid fuel; the other is on the minus side in terms of the state budget. Does this mean that the financing of this income tax advantage, if the government allows the tax rate to be reduced by 1% in 2015, is at the expense of these areas, i.e. shipping, rail transport, heating, heating and electricity production?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U147	I think that there is no comparison between the estimated cost to the country of the current system and the amount of aid scheme to be implemented in the future, as from 1 January 2012, because the purpose of the draft scheme is to reduce the number of areas that currently exist in which special fuel can be used. These volumes are certainly not comparable. But how, in agriculture, fisheries and other areas mentioned in the draft, rail transport of passengers and goods, heat and electricity production, the Minister of Finance also mentioned domestic boilers, it will take place under what conditions, these mechanisms will be developed during this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U148	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U149	Thank you. I meet with Finnish and Swedish ministers at least once a month. I can describe the conversations with the Finnish Minister on reducing VAT on food. I don't know if I use evil words as much as he does. Still, I'll probably use even more evil. But our positions coincided with one hundred percent: this is completely the wrong way to solve social problems. It will not reduce the price, and if the price is temporarily falling, it will not actually help as many poor as the rich. As far as tax incentives are concerned, finance ministers think the same way. Can't complain. But you asked me something else. What could it be? Should it still be done, and are they competing? To be honest, there are a number of things that are more difficult for them than we do. We can name a different tax burden, which is still lower than the height of the mountain. Apparently, the land tax is lower, but I might be wrong here, I haven't studied it in the tables right now. In terms of production costs, we still have such a competitive advantage that you are man and tea alone. But if inefficiencies are covered up by the pollution of nature, no one should like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U150	Thank you. Now there really are no more questions. I would like to ask Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Committee for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels was on the agenda of the Monetary Committee on 17 and 30 May. The draft was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi as representative of the initiators of the draft act. He explained that the abolition of the system of tax exemptions for special-marked fuel would take place in two stages, with the second phase meaning that direct payments would be offered to certain sectors. The Members of the Commission did not have too many questions. The second phase of the reform was asked about compensation. The initiator of the draft act explained that the compensation mechanism would be developed during this year. By the time the special marking stops, the system will be in place. This system will be developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. The Commission was once again asked why such a change would be necessary. Once again, the initiator of the draft act was able to explain that the purpose of the amendment was to create a support system that was more necessary and purpose-oriented. The aim is also to reduce administration costs and administrative costs, as well as to increase revenue from the state budget and prevent tax fraud. As a matter of fact, a support scheme that is built on the fact that the person who consumes more fossil fuels receives support is not really fit for purpose. It was recalled last winter when farmers could not go to clean you with specially labelled fuel tractors. They asked what would happen to it. The initiator of the draft act was able to explain that this problem would be resolved as special labelling would disappear and agricultural production would be supported by a separate support mechanism. It was also a question of the time of adoption of the draft, of whether this time is too short. It was possible to clarify here that the draft will enter into force on 1 January 2012 and that the period of notice is quite sufficient. That was it. I myself informed the Commission that there was a smaller round before the first reading than the whole Commission (not all the members of the Commission could participate) met with the Forest Industry Association. This meeting was quite long and covered many topics. Of course, the problems of the Forest Industries Association were understandable, as any area where support is lost is disturbed. They argued that a number of support schemes exist in some neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, while Lithuania and Latvia do not exist again. They therefore put the emphasis on the competition issue. We have been able to explain that Estonia must also consider that companies have a more favourable tax system, for example, which does not exist in Finland and Sweden. It was a long debate, I'm not going to report everything here. I think a meeting was necessary anyway. When the first reading is completed today, between the first and second reading of the bill, we will definitely meet other professional associations as well. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda on 1 June and to close the first reading (with 6 votes in favour and 5 against). The Commission decided to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 12 noon on 3 June (six in favour and 5 against). The Commission also decided, after completion of the first reading, to propose that the second reading be placed on the Riigikogu's agenda on 8 June (six members were in favour of this decision and 5 members of the Commission were against it). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U152	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You said in your report that you also met representatives of foresters in a narrower circle. Perhaps you will shed some light on the position of the forestmen's representatives on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U154	Thank you. In fact, in addition to the representatives of the Forest Industries Association, the entire Finance Commission and the representatives of the private forest federation were invited. As I said, not all members of the Commission were able to participate, so the circle of participants was smaller. But, of course, the concerns of the sector's representatives are understandable. Any area with a tax exemption, a more favourable tax regime, is disturbed by the abolition of the exemption. But the meeting came up with an interesting fact. The Union estimates, for example, that tonnage, which is also a problem for our forest industry operators (we are allowed to travel by road with 44 tonnes of vehicles, Finland has a limit of 60 tonnes), is a competition issue and so disturbing that they considered it even to be a limit of equivalent weight. We listened to other concerns. But as I said, the industry is disturbed that the advantage will disappear. However, once again, the state simply does not consider it reasonable to continue with well-targeted support schemes. The current system is very costly for the state, while the objective of limiting fossil fuel use, which is also the purpose of applying excise duty, is met to a limited extent by the current scheme. Of course, we had all these issues on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U155	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U156	Thank you. Good colleague! You have done the work that the initiator of the draft has failed to do, perhaps you have met representatives of various associations. I'm really glad you brought that tonnage show. If you estimate the discount that disappears and the possibility to drive 60 tonnes instead of a 44-tonne truck, which means, by the way, the higher cost of road construction, how do you assess it from an environmental point of view? In one case, we will win in environmental protection. Are we gonna lose another case?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U157	We listened to the views and arguments of the representatives in the field. That was one of their problems. However, this issue goes beyond the competence of the Committee on Monetary Affairs; rather, it could be the Committee on Economic Affairs. In fact, this issue was not even on the table in the Commission. All the arguments put forward by the sector must, of course, be heard. This was one of their concerns, in addition to the disappearance of the special marking mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U158	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U159	Thank you. I ask myself: do I understand correctly that it is possible, according to the draft, to have such an absurd situation, that if I plow a field with a tractor in the morning and fuel remains, and if I want to move wood out of the forest with the same machine in the evening, I should actually empty the tank and put another fuel in it? Am I getting this right or wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U160	I think you misunderstand. Because if this draft comes into force (if you so decide), the special labelling will disappear. So there can no longer be a situation where the farmer cannot go on a public road with the tractor in which he carries out his field work.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U161	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U162	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The Minister of Finance also said that taxation is important and that taxes need to be collected in order to implement social programmes. You said that special-marked fuel is a costly concession for the state, with a cost of EUR 70 million. Will the same EUR 70 million now be given back by other means, better methods to support entrepreneurship or the economy, or will this money be withdrawn from supporting the economy and we will actually weaken the competitiveness of the Estonian economy in the wider sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U163	Thank you, Honourable Asker. You could, of course, have asked this question in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I think I am going to break the rule now when I am talking about issues that were not addressed in the Commission. But I think that such an example is a bit of an artificial design, and in practice it certainly is not a problem. On the contrary, if last winter there was a vital question that snowstorm tractors equipped with fuel for agricultural work could not go to clean the roads, this bill will certainly solve this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U164	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. As the subject we are discussing today is also connected with the production of electricity, I would like to ask, Mr Minister, whether you can predict what year could begin the second stage that you mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U165	Thank you. Stage two will start at the same time. We simply have to take a different approach to these two things, because the tax increase without compensation has to be announced in advance, it is in line with good practice. Under normal circumstances, good practice must be followed; in a crisis situation, one can also turn a blind eye, as the Riigikogu has done. For those areas that receive compensation, we don't have to tell them so early. We're wondering about the schematics right now. It is also much more complicated in terms of organisation. Officials need more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U166	Thank you. No further questions. Ah! Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U167	I'm sorry! I saw there was another questioner, but I was wrong. You promised to tell the Finnish and Swedish ministers that you did not know if they needed these exceptions. They'll probably hear you out and say it was nice to meet you. I am therefore asking what is so strange about this if we support our businesses through tax incentives. In my opinion, both the construction material industry and the forestry industry are competing with those industries in Finland and Sweden that are in some respects in a better position.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, A good colleague, Mrs Toobal, asked how a special fuel check would take place, and you replied that, after the entry into force of this law, there would not be an inspection, but just one fuel that would be used. But let me give you a similar example: if a farmer works four hours in the field on one working day, and after a lunch break goes into the woods, will the mechanism be such that he will receive compensation for four hours worked in the morning, but he will no longer receive compensation for four hours worked in the evening?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U169	Thank you, President-in-Office. To the rapporteur, I have this question: can I take a good message to my constituents when I leave this room that they can now buy up blue fuel, because once the law comes into force, you can also drive blue fuel on the roads and, therefore, it is a completely economical step?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U170	Thank you. I think it's very bad advice that they don't know what to put their money under. There are certainly much more useful investment sites than specially labelled fuel. There is plenty of time to use specially labelled fuel, until the end of 2012. How the transition will take place, how the residues will be allowed to be used, under which conditions, the Minister of Finance replied. He pulled a parallel with tobacco tax stamps. These conditions will certainly be developed and announced at an early stage so that no one will have a reason to make uneconomic decisions as a result of a bad recommendation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U171	Thank you very much. Now there really are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. Lembit Kaljuvee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U172	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, As far as I am concerned, the subject of fuel was specially marked at the Ministry of Finance at the time of Siim Kallas, when it was intended to abolish this excise benefit. When Harri was the Minister of Apple Tree, he asked me how I felt about starting to break the system from there. But, thank God, the ministers of that time had some sense and courage. I respect Mr. Ligi very much, and he really does share his case, but in the case of this law, he is, I think, on the wrong road. Taking more than a billion kroons away from businesses and only companies in certain sectors in one year is, to put it mildly, impertinent. A billion kroons is a lot of money, and preparations must be made to take it away. Today we heard the Minister talking about meeting with the nearest ministers, they are discussing it and he is recommending that they also stop promoting specially labelled fuel. When we look at which sectors they are, we see that they are the construction industry, the mining industry, the construction industry. As regards the mountain industry, there is no question, because Eesti Energia goes to the Competition Authority, gets a 2% increase in electricity prices, inflation increases and the state raises its hands so that they can do nothing at the price of electricity, that is just the case. When we are talking about the construction material industry, which currently actually produces more than half of its production to the Nordic markets, the situation is becoming very difficult, precisely when it comes to competing in these markets. You shouldn't make sudden moves like that. I asked the Minister about what I remember, and what entrepreneurs are saying, that the ideology of this excise duty is, in fact, that whoever does the tea himself can use the discount. In Finland, it is precisely the case that who drives on a public road, does not have a special advantage, but elsewhere in the careers, agriculture, railroads, when the railroad builds its own roads, not the state builds its own roads, it can be used for shipping. If we do the kind of 'oasis' where we take away the advantage, but around this advantage is, then we put companies in these sectors in an extremely difficult situation. I've been working in these sectors myself. When I moved around the Virumaa last week, one of the main topics was this: for God's sakes, men and women, do not let this law go in this way. That is why the Centre Party Group is proposing to reject this law at first reading. I'm going to go over these reasons again. Firstly, competitiveness in these sectors is declining. Secondly, the price of electricity is rising, leading to inflation. Thirdly, this was also justified by the Minister here; ecologically, it would be better if less was spent. It must be borne in mind that when we transport goods, the fuel consumption per tonne of freight is several times lower than when we carry goods on the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U173	Your time is up. Would you like some more? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U174	These examples show that things are not properly prepared and should not be done in this way. I am handing over our group's proposal to reject it at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U175	Thanks to the waitress! Next call chair, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If you look for something positive in the law amending the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel Act under discussion, you have to admit that the draft has a pretty good, concise and educational explanatory statement. Unfortunately, there is nothing to be commendable about the draft itself. On the formal side, the fact is that there has not been enough negotiation with the relevant entrepreneurs and NGOs. The minister claimed that farmers had been negotiated, but farmers were not subject to the 39th draft law. Their draft was only allowed in the autumn. So, involvement has been non-existent, except for the Forest Industries Association and the two non-profit institutions, which were probably the NGO Reform Party and the NGO Isamaa and Res Publica Association. Similarly, the partial and staged solution of the problem, which in the current context reminds the dog's tail of the segmented cut-off with the aim of less pain, is not included in the good legislative practice. This approach contrasts sectors of the economy to each other and simply produces thick blood. On the substantive side, the exclusion of forestry from the beneficiaries cannot be accepted in any way. The government's planned innovation will undermine the competitiveness of our forestry sector in a situation where Finnish foresters use painted fuel and Swedish foresters are compensated for excise duty. It is true that Latvian foresters will not be compensated for excise duty. But isn't aligning with Latvia on this issue too low? At the same time, I am convinced that despite the fact that fewer fuel excises are collected from the Finnish and Swedish forestry sectors, the forest roads there are still in a much better position than Latvia's. The draft law also lacks transitional provisions governing the use of fuel supplies already acquired after 1 January 2012. These are the reasons why the Social Democratic Party Group also proposes to reject the 39 drafts at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U177	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm sorry! Please react a little faster! Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U178	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! There's no more calls. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party have proposed to reject the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel at first reading. We're preparing for the voting procedure. I shall put to the vote the proposal by the Estonian Centre Party and the Social Democratic Party to reject the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels at first reading. For 41, against 48 members of the Riigikogu, there are no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The Governing Commission's proposal is to stop reading. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. tho June 3th at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U179	Thank you. You must have been a little imprecise when you mentioned these areas, but all right. In the autumn, we will look at all the areas together. In general, you can say that if you like. But don't. However, if you say so, remember that one of the basic scenarios for green tax reforms is to reduce income tax and increase environmental taxes. This is exactly what's going on here, if that's the way you want to tie them. We didn't do that, we tied government promises and programme plans into a single table with revenues and costs. I've always considered it very important where the money comes from. In fact, this issue of land tax has also come largely from this very high priority. It is very important to me that there is a tax for burning fossil fuels, and I will protect it. The issue of income tax is a matter of the economic environment, and here the coalition has decided not to make tax relief but to make tax relief. We're pretty good with words.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U180	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U181	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Secretary of Finance! There are certainly many measures to support agriculture and rural development in general. There are so-called 'ha-based support measures', there are production-based measures, there are ewe payments and all kinds of other things that encourage our rural areas. They all work. The use of specially labelled fuel was one of the types of support that supported rural work as such, work. I agree that burning fossil fuels is perhaps not the best option. But the works of forestry and agriculture are often mixed together. In my community, all foresters do farm work, and farmers do forest work. How can we support rural work in such a way that we can separate it from each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U182	Thank you. There is no need to support economically viable work. That's the first thing I'm gonna say. The work itself must be economically meaningful. But what exactly were you thinking? I'm trying to understand. If you suspect that there will be different regulations that will interfere with each other, we will be able to do so in the autumn. In the case of a farmer with one agricultural tractor or two such tractors, the painting simply disappears, but the agricultural production is starting to receive support. Maybe it's private forest support, too. We don't know that. What can I say more about that? The creation of employment in the countryside is not an endless problem that I think no society has solved satisfactorily. It can still be that jobs are created in cities. This means an endless effort in regional policy, but it does not mean that we are giving more pollution opportunities there. This is certainly not an instrument of job creation in the countryside.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U183	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Are you also planning to invite professional organisations such as fishermen or forestry organisations to participate in the debate on fuel with special labelling?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U185	Thank you. As far as the compensation system is concerned, I have asked farmers twice in different situations about it and have received a supportive answer that, yes, we will do the other way around. I really liked it. I probably wouldn't have gotten the Minister of Agriculture on a boat without the farmers' support. But suppose, for example, that the Centre Party will eventually come to power. Will he then ask the tax payers whether they want a higher tax rate and invite the taxpayers' union to the seat and ask: 'Listen, we now want a 40% tax rate. Don't you agree? ' If this is done, I fear the answer is no. Certain distance between general decisions and such very personal benefits should exist in the law. But there has been a great deal of communication with professional organisations, both in writing and in direct communication.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U186	Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U187	We are going to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Jürgen Ligi, the Secretary of Finance of the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The amendments proposed by this draft aim to maintain a simple and uniform tax environment, to reduce the tax burden, to use natural resources in an environmentally sound manner and to increase the number of participants in lifelong learning. The draft will bring the income tax rate down to 1% from 2015 to 20%. Secondly, the total amount of permitted deductions from the income of a natural person shall be reduced from EUR 3196 to EUR 1920. The amendment concerns the right to deduct mortgage interest, training costs, gifts and donations from 2012. According to the 2009 statistics, most of this budget expenditure was due to mortgage interest, with almost 70% of this benefit being the cost of mortgage interest. As I have said a lot in the past, this tax credit is divided into socially very unreasonable forms: 20% of the wealthier people have acquired or still absorb two thirds of this income. That doesn't make any sense. This was certainly one of the emotional causes of the real estate boom when relatively modest money achieved significant price increases and then the real estate market collapsed. Of course, it was not the only reason, but it was one of the regulations that was not eliminated. The reduction in the total amount of deductions will undoubtedly affect above all the average wealthier people, as has been mentioned. Next, this draft establishes a special tax accounting scheme for the right to felled timber and for the disposal of felled timber. Forest management costs incurred in the period up to three years following the disposal shall be deducted from the revenue received in 2012. The amendment will benefit, in particular, small forest owners, to whom the sale of cutting rights and harvested timber is a one-off transaction and not a continuous economic activity. As a last amendment, the treatment of level-of-employment training in employment and employment relations as a special advantage is excluded from 2012. This reduces the tax burden, in particular by lowering labour taxes, which creates the prerequisites for high productivity jobs, and encourages the number of participants in lifelong learning. We also see a strong link with the real needs of the labour market in the wording of the draft provision. It has always been stressed that education costs should be linked to the needs of the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U189	Thank you. Any questions? Please, Eiki Nestor, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U190	Of course it is! For point 10, thank you to the Minister of Finance for bringing it here! I think that in the end, in some form, we will arrive at the fact that level training is not a special advantage. But explain for the verbatim of the Riigikogu what is meant by the words 'directly related to the employment and service relationship'. For example, is the situation in which a person is hired and pays his or her student loan, but the employer is willing to pay interest on his or her student loan going under this point or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U191	Thank you. This is a relatively costly advantage, with a high risk of becoming a regular or, let's say, a tax-free wage component. We need to formulate it in as safe a frame as possible. This provision still requires the employer to pay off the training and it simply does not make sense to make it dependent on borrowing. We have talked quite a bit about the same thing here with regard to the cancellation of student loans. The benefit should not depend on whether you borrow or not to borrow, but on whether the benefit should be the same, regardless of this option. All the more so because we can make a different face, but we all know that student loans are not only taken in case of need, but a very large proportion of these loans are consumed and no one can manage them. They don't try or try to control it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U192	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U193	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As we all know, tax incentives come at the expense of something. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the draft will have an impact on the state budget of EUR 70 million, which means that the state will receive less money. On the one hand, it is certainly welcome. I think people like it when they get more money. But on the other hand, it's done at the expense of something. For example, the State can provide EUR 70 million less support for state support services or the social system. Let's talk about pensions, teachers' or doctors' salaries. Do you think that this system is reasonable, because we certainly cannot talk that these areas, such as the social sector, are being flooded with money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U194	Thank you. You once again used the word 'tax credit'. I didn't know what you were thinking for a while. Indeed, tax incentives come at the expense of something. As you said exactly, they reduce the possibility for the state to finance social expenditure. That's exactly it. And it's very reasonable to lose them. These benefits are usually socially unreasonable and are always costly to manage. But I understand from your political agenda that you actually meant, not tax relief, but tax relief on income tax. I also respond to this: the income tax rate is very strongly an issue of the economic environment, of the country's competitiveness. Income tax is considered the most restrictive tax on the economy. To distinguish between corporate and labour taxation, corporate income tax is the most burdensome of all. This is also the reason why countries are very keenly competing here for investments. At the same time, labour taxation is, however, a very deep employment issue. Recently, Europe has also sought to ease the tax burden on labour in order to promote job creation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U195	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U196	Thank you. It is really a big deal that we are going to come to the exemption from the special preferential tax on the costs of graduate training. But I wanted to ask you about the formulation of "level-of-work training." For example, the company is redesigning itself, it is already preparing for it, or it is planning to expand the field of activity, and it needs to train some people to become a specialist in the new area that the company will need in the future. Whether this tax exemption or tax relief takes into account what the undertaking considers to be relevant or whether the registered activities are taken into account in the so-called formal...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U197	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U198	Thank you. It will undoubtedly be the case that an undertaking, if it has convincing arguments, will receive this tax credit. I am drawing a parallel with the tax credit for health expenditure, where there is also a very high risk of violating the general principle of solidarity, of giving these expenses to employers to decide and thus to empty out the sickness fund and the pension fund a great deal. But in reality, tax relief comes when convincing health programs are presented, that's the practice. In fact, the same practice has been used for training. For example, in the case of level training, credit points are monitored. This is one of the places where tax rulings are actually available today. But since this issue has been fired from cannons of this size all the time and it has the impression that there is some sort of huge injustice, I think, in conclusion to this, you have to say that the law is practically ready to do. Then everyone will understand the possibilities of using it in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U199	Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U200	Mr Secretary of Finance. Obviously, no one can even predict the financial economic situation in the world in four years' time. Why is the withdrawal of a billion kroons from the Estonian state budget two months before the next parliamentary elections needed to be legalized right now, and do you really think it is responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U201	Thank you. Why should parliamentary elections be decisive here? Is this supposed to improve our spending opportunities, our gift-giving opportunities? I'd rather not. It is still a big undertaking if the government were to make such a structural tax to improve the environment. In the debate on the previous draft, we talked about the fact that, due to the abolition of exemptions, we are taxing a little more, while this economy has a sensitive area of corporate income and wages a little less. When we started this process in 2003, when we entered into force in 2004, there were fears, but if income tax were 26% now, it would have a very bad impact on our competitiveness. The trend towards a reduction in income tax has been long-standing throughout Europe, and it was only the last crisis that pushed for some sort of emergency solutions. However, an increase in VAT is clearly preferable to an increase in income tax. Sometimes these higher rates have been raised in order to reduce the number of voters it affects. But generally, the long-term trend has been to reduce income tax. Estonia has made the right choice in this respect, but maybe it has wanted to achieve the objective too quickly. In 2015, we would then try to take the next step.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U202	Please, Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U203	Dear Minister, By lowering income tax, we are taking another step towards a thinner country. Previous cuts have shown that the richest tenth, say, 130,000 people, saved just as much as 650000 people thanks to previous reforms, whose income was below the Estonian average. Perhaps a richer tenth saved as much as half the poorer population. My question is: how thin will we make this country, how little do we keep our services and where is the final limit? Twenty years ago, let me remind you, Siim Kallas (I will name his name again) said that income tax should be zero at all. Is that the plan in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U204	Thank you. I don't see that zero coming, but the goal isn't as thin as an efficient state. An efficient country is a country with an attractive tax system. Taxes must come from the right place, not from taxation of labour and investment, but rather from taxation of internal consumption and environmental pollution. These are the places where competition and efficiency are achieved. Europe has understood this very well. If you look at the last tax relief of the European Council, it is not advisable to reduce the tax burden (although clearly for political reasons, not only but also for budgetary reasons, because Europe is in a debt crisis). It is recommended that the tax burden be passed on from labour to consumption, which we are doing here, at least for a second hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U205	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! One part of the bill 40 provides that the period of taxation by income tax on forest owners is to be converted into three years. It can be considered from the explanatory memorandum that the negative impact on the state budget in this respect is EUR 0.7 million. But at the same time, very modestly, if this volume grows by at least 10%, the result for the state budget may not be negative anymore, rather it will become positive. Does the Ministry of Finance have more precise calculations or data on this, taking into account market studies, priority development of renewable energy, growth in demand for wood, etc., how much market activity is expected to increase? Is it going to be 10%, or is it going to be bigger?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U207	Thank you. Do not underestimate the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance. These potential economic gains are taken into account in the forecasts. The main ideological justification for this loss of budget is that the state imposes obligations on the owner in the case of clear cutting in the case of reforestation. Reforestation is allowed, if I'm not mistaken, in the third year. It is justified that this revenue, which is obtained, for example, one and a half years earlier, will also be reduced by reforestation costs. Of course, tax and control problems arise here, which is why this regulation has fallen out a little wider. We have also had substantive disputes here. I am not very happy that this has been done, but you are aware of this issue and know these arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U208	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U209	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You mentioned in your report that your aim is to reduce labour taxes and increase consumption taxes. Was there also a debate on why to reduce income tax by 1%, if the alternative would, for example, be to consider moving unemployment insurance contributions to pre-crisis levels? Why have you not chosen a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U210	Thank you. Unemployment insurance is specifically the income of one cashier; it is not possible to cover risks in a different way. We have, of course, also discussed unemployment insurance contributions; we have set this reduction from a reduction in income tax earlier in 2013. It cannot be ruled out that it will succeed sooner, but I do not support the ambitious promises made in the press. We still have to agree on the calculations before we say that we should reduce them retroactively or now, etc. This race doesn't work. Unemployment insurance is very vulnerable, as is the health insurance fund. The experience of the crisis should be very clear to us. We clearly went too far with the reduction before the crisis and had to increase this payment at the worst of times. If you're looking for serious mistakes in the government's work, it's definitely in the top three. Unemployment insurance was raised at the wrong time. It was an emergency solution, so we didn't know how to assess the problem correctly. So, yes, in my opinion, there is no way that a reduction in unemployment insurance would happen sooner than a reduction in income tax. The question was well-founded.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U211	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U212	Minister of Finance! You didn't answer Jaak Allik's question exactly, so I'll ask you again. Why must income tax be reduced now if we do not have the assurance that this will be feasible for our state budget in 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U213	It wasn't a question, it was some sort of comment that was pretty long and shuffling. As always happens in the Riigikogu, the minute is being used. Why now? I guess it's necessary to create clarity, to draw up a budget strategy. It is up to the Riigikogu to decide whether to accept it. We have timed these decisions differently, sometimes misunderstood each other, for example in the case of land tax, but now, in the case of income tax, 2015 is what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U214	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U215	Mr Secretary of Finance. As we know, because of the specific nature of our tax system, I am thinking of the lack of corporate tax in the traditional sense, the possibilities for sponsoring aid to the social sphere are negligible. Why do you want to further lower the ceiling of donations made by private individuals?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U216	Thank you. How, then, is the corporate tax system harassing these individuals? I may not have been able to observe. How could the companies with more money available harass their donation opportunities? There was the word 'probably' in your question. Maybe I didn't quite understand the question. But donators could be more guided by the idea that they donate their money from their good heart, that the donation of pension and sickness funds is not really their business. With a lot of tax incentives, I have pointed out that what kind of donor it is, who goes to donate from public money. Donate your money, don't apply for a tax credit, it's a brief summary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U217	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In previous years, your party and the IRL government have reduced income tax and increased VAT. More earning people won from the reduction in income tax, everyone lost because of the increase in VAT, including those who did not win anything from the reduction in income tax. The last time you decreased income tax on 1 January 2008 and, one and a half years later, you increased VAT at a very rapid rate by 2%. Do we also have to fear now that you will soon come back to raising VAT in order to make up for the part of the income tax that you have not received in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U219	Thank you. You're reading this calculation on the computer screen, but the computer is cheating on you. The money received from the increase in VAT was reallocated to the state budget, but the state budget clearly favours the poorer people. Raising VAT is a relatively innocent increase compared to raising income tax. That is why, as I have repeatedly replied here, raising VAT is the emergency solution that Europe has usually had to choose in the budgetary crisis. Greece and Ireland are recent drastic examples, as well as Portugal. But it is simply evidence that, in cooperation with the European Commission and the IMF, the same conclusion is still reached: consumption must be taxed. I am not in favour of cutting VAT. I think the idea of VAT is noble and the money it receives does not burden the economy. It facilitates the movement of resources towards exports and provides excellent opportunities to solve the problems of wealth and poverty through the budget. That's what we've been doing. Social costs have increased, and pensions have also been paid out as a result of an increase in VAT. That's how we've been here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U220	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U221	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Finance! I have a more technical question. The tax deduction allowed falls to EUR 1920, which is EEK 30000 in old currency. Is this amount conventional? Why isn't it 25,000 or 35,000, for example? Or is it some kind of research, some kind of calculation of how many people it affects, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U222	Thank you. Isn't that right, yes, the benefits are considered, and in fact they are based on round kroon sums, in this case, if I'm not mistaken, they're 50,000 and 30,000. We note that in the case of housing loans, it is divided between two family members. Let's be honest, returning $100,000 in old money is quite a lot of money for the family, and only a wealthy family gets such a big refund. I don't think that's a socially reasonable advantage. I'd lose it in the first place. I've been arguing about this. Here too are my opponents. Their voters will certainly be glad that they are arguing with me, but I do not think this tax credit is right at all. I'm outnumbered. I've got to testify for several times this week.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U223	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. No more questions for you. I'm asking for Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U224	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 16 and 30 May. On May 17th, the waitress I became was changed. During the debate on 30 May, the initiator of the draft report gave an overview of the draft, the main objectives of which are to reduce the tax rate and the maximum permitted deductions from the income of the natural person, to revive the forest management of small forest owners through special treatment of income tax, and to exclude work-related level training from being treated as a special advantage. The initiator stressed that the changes serve the objective of maintaining a simple and uniform tax environment, reducing the tax burden, using natural resources in an environmentally sound manner and increasing the number of participants in lifelong learning. The debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs asked the same question as was repeated today for the verbatim report, i.e. whether the exemption from the level of training involves the cancellation of interest on the student loan. The initiator of the draft act explained that the training costs paid by the company had still been taken into account in the exclusion of the special advantage. As the Minister explained, in the case of student loans, it is not always one hundred per cent that the entire loan is going to pay the training costs, but that there may also be a consumption component in it. The question was given as an example of whether the situation in which an undertaking trains a bank teller to become a financialist could be regarded as a tax-free situation. The initiator of the draft act explained that it must still be the condition that the employee in question will later be employed as a financialist in the company. Perhaps the principle of the draft is that the employer must be able to prove that he finds an application for the trainee. The initiator of the draft act also stated that, at the time the draft was drawn up, the introduction of a system similar to the regulation of the agreement on reimbursement of training costs provided for in the Employment Contracts Act was considered in the draft in question. However, it was abandoned. The principle of the draft is that the costs of covering the level of training are justified if the employer needs a qualified specialist to fulfil his objectives, and the employer's expenses are justified if the employee subsequently contributes to the recovery of that investment. There was a question as to whether the reduction in the amount of the deduction of the income of a natural person was in line with the principle of legitimate expectations. The initiator of the draft act explained that it was consistent. No one can have hope or belief that the tax credit is eternal. The initiator of the draft act also referred to case law. It is known that the loss of benefit must be known in advance for a sufficiently long time. The draft, which limits the deduction, will enter into force from the tax period starting on 1 January 2012. This is definitely a sufficient period of notice. It was also a question of whether the deduction of forest management costs as an incentive under the Tax Act was sufficient in comparison with the fines imposed for non-compliance with the Forest Act. There can be no other answer here than that, if the forest owner fails to comply with the obligation under the Forest Act, he can be fined, but at the same time he will have the opportunity to benefit from the tax credit. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda on 1 June and to close the first reading (with 6 votes in favour and 5 against). The Commission decided to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 June at 6 p.m. (six in favour and 5 against). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U225	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U226	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. My question concerns the reduction of the tax credit from EUR 3196 to EUR 1920. You said that if it were to apply from 1 January next year, the period of notice would be sufficient. At the same time, reducing the tax credit does not only concern people who have taken a home loan, but also those whose families receive higher education in paid education or whose children go to groups of interests. Does the Committee on Monetary Affairs have a precise view of how many taxpayers are affected by this reduction in the tax credit and what has been the expenditure on which the tax credit was obtained? How many have spent on education and on children's interest groups, and how many have taken housing loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U227	Thank you. Unfortunately, I don't have such detailed information here. In fact, this information is available from the aggregate data on individual income tax returns. The statistics on aggregated data are available to the tax office. Information obtained by the State or the tax authorities through tax returns is available at the Tax and Customs Board. If we look at the total volume of declarations, the EUR 1920 threshold exceeded 13.5% of all declared deductions, so it is less than 15%. But how many donations and other deductions are there, I don't have any statistics on that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U228	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U229	Listening to you, I have a question. We imagine that the employer will recruit a highly educated person with diverse linguistic interests, who is currently studying Latin at the University of Tartu, as an external relations specialist, and will record in the employment contract that he will be able to further develop himself in this field and he will favour the completion of his studies. As we know, foreign communication in Latin is currently difficult, and the Estonian Tax and Customs Board may not even consider it possible. Is such support granted to a staff member, if the undertaking grants it, exempted from the special preferential tax or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U230	Thank you. Is your example a level of training? That's one condition. The second condition is that it must be linked to the employer's activities. If these conditions are met, this case should qualify. In the case of a borderline situation, it is advisable to ask the tax authorities in advance for information. As we know, we have an institution for preliminary rulings. The tax authority will certainly provide additional assurance as to whether such a situation or expenditure qualifies as a special advantage. However, the conditions that it must be linked to the employer's activities and that there is an employment relationship must be met.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U231	Thank you. My question is perhaps because of my lack of information. If income tax is reduced by 1%, will this 1% fall from the State's share or will a gift be given at the expense of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U232	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U233	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U234	On this draft, our group members have mixed feelings. There are pleasant points here. Here are the points that have been the result of our long-term work, not in the way we like it. There are points where I understand why the government is proposing this, but I do not consider the proposed solution to be correct. There's also one point that doesn't suit us in any way. It is a talk that a reduction in the tax rate is beneficial for the economy. You know, I think this debate has been out of politics a long time ago. Politics would be if the Minister came here and said: in 2015, the rate of income tax will decrease by 1% and therefore Estonian taxpayers will have to pay for it and for it themselves or, therefore (the Prime Minister here today, our social expenditure on GDP has increased because GDP fell) we will not increase child support. That's not a story, it's just talk about how useful it is for our economy. It's a bit like therapy, it's like a cure. For example, there will be a group of nervous people who will discuss the state budget for the following year, they will argue, and finally peace will be achieved for the purpose of treatment by the following route: in fact, reducing the tax rate will still be beneficial. And then they split up happily. The content is not here because, you see, in those countries whose economies are higher than us and who are going faster today, the rate of income tax is much higher. Now we're getting to the second point. Apparently, the Minister's doubts are well founded. The desire to prevent the next real estate boom has led to a desire to reduce the permitted deductions from taxable income. If the total was EUR 3196 then it is now 1920. This reasoning is understandable to me, but the way we do it also means that we reduce people's ability to train and donate. I don't understand that. If you have looked at the calculations of a very clever bank worker, you know that he has calculated nicely that if you have an average housing loan + one child in kindergarten + one child in a sports circle, it is already over EUR 200 in 1920. The question can also be asked as to whether it can be resolved in any other way. I think it can. This road is very simple. In view of the government's desire to avoid the next boom, the EUR 3196 in old money could not be reduced by EEK 50000, but it should be included in the law that, in the case of housing loans taken after the entry into force of the Act, the ceiling is 1920. Then we wouldn't violate anyone's legitimate expectations who's taken out a loan with prior knowledge. Then it could not be said that we favour the next boom, but we do not restrict the right to donate or train ourselves. Restricting this would probably be completely wrong under the current circumstances. The most complex of all is this provision, which talks about the special benefit of level training. Mr Lukas asked very correct questions. Aivar Sõerd would not have exceeded his mandate if he had responded to you that paying the costs of studying Latin at the University of Tartu means a special advantage in the sense of this law. I received this answer to a slightly different question from the officials of the Ministry of Finance on the Commission. See what this is about? I do not like this wording for the following reason. We have had ten years of practice (and thanks to God it was never established) that professional training is not a special advantage. There has been a great deal of debate about its actual taxation. Even in the case of topics, if everything seemed to be simple, that there was nothing else, that was pure professional training, the question arose as to whether it was a special benefit or not. Its wording is complicated by the word 'directly'. Behind the word 'directly' the tax authority can graft whatever expenditure. The possibility of interpretation is too great. It is very well described in the explanatory memorandum that the authors of the proposal see the matter as such: the employee is recruited, a contract of employment is concluded, where everything is fixed. It makes perfect sense, they must be praised. This benefit is based on the employment relationship or the fact that a person is in public service, it cannot be paid to anyone who provides any kind of service to the company through a contract of employment or whatever other means. This person must be an employee of this institution. That makes sense. But at the same time, the word 'directly' limits a number of things. If, for example, we are talking about the possibility of concluding a fixed-term contract of employment in the Employment Contracts Act and obliging a person to work in a certain position later, it is logical to give the possibility that a person will pay his or her higher education costs and the employer will pay interest. It would be perfectly natural to grant a discount in this way. It's always been a big upset that, for God's sake, if the proposal goes through, the head of a brick factory can train an opera singer. I'm telling you, I think you should be able to train, and that brick factory manager needs to be thanked for telling him he's training an opera singer. We should not punish him with a special preferential tax, either. I understand that this is considered absolutely impossible. All right, let's do this in some way, but let's do it in a way that doesn't create a debate that is a special advantage and that is direct, which is not. This dispute can also be removed from the text that is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U235	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a chair of speech as a representative of the Group of the Reform Party in Tõnis Kõiv. Plus three minutes, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U236	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair as a representative of the Kadri Simson Central Party! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U237	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which we are discussing today, is very interesting. It is interesting that, if you read the bill from the rear forward, paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of § 1 are commendable and they are also given green light by the Centre Party Group. However, we certainly cannot accept the reduction of public services and the deterioration of the situation of Estonian families. That seems to be the content of subsections 1 and 2 of the draft. Paragraph 1 (1) provides that the income tax rate is to be reduced from 1 January 2015 to 20%. For a simple person, this 1% reduction in the income tax rate means an additional handful of euro coins. But what does this mean for the Estonian state? According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the reduction in the rate of income tax in 2015 will reduce the revenue of the State by EUR 70 million, including a reduction in personal income tax revenue of EUR 57 million and a reduction in corporate tax of EUR 13 million. Public services are financed by the State and, if the revenue of the State decreases, the quality of public services will also deteriorate. In a simple language that everyone understands: reducing public revenues, reducing the quality of health care, reducing access to education, deteriorating public order and security, cutting back on roads and other infrastructure and social guarantees. Of course, every individual personally wants lower taxes. According to the speech of the right-wing populists, it would be even better if there were no taxes at all. But, unfortunately, the theories of public finances do not support such a thing. We have two options. Coalition politicians want to turn Estonia into a minimal state where there is legislation with the judicial system, public order and national defence. But everything else is man's business, let him see how he can handle it. The opposition politicians see Estonia as a solution to our aspiration towards the welfare state model, where social security, health care, education and culture are also guaranteed in the past, and the state is created for man, not the other way around. The coalition has so far reduced the income tax rate completely purposelessly. Inevitably, the question arises where there is a line from which the country is no longer thinned. Yes, today it was said that no one would allow taxes to be reduced to zero, but will the coalition in future be able to aim to reduce income tax to 18% or 15% as an election promise? Is this some kind of experimentation on the Estonian state, where the country's sustainability limit lies? We believe that our own country is not a thing to play with, and should not be cut down much thinner. In recent years, taxes have been significantly raised, which burden all people, including those who have not won anything from the reduction in income tax. These are indirect taxes. Indirect taxes are also paid by pensioners, families with children, students and people looking for work. It would certainly be more socially fair to leave income tax intact and to abandon the further increases in indirect taxes that are currently promised. I now come to Article 1 (2) of the draft, which reduces the total amount of permitted deductions from the current EUR 3196 to EUR 1920. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states that only 13.5% of all taxpayers crossed the EUR 1920 limit in 2009, but this 13.5% is also behind the real people whose situation is clearly deteriorating. The interesting thing is that these people only went to vote two months ago, and they had been given no warning that the parties to whom these major taxpayers were likely to cast their vote would have such a plan. But I put it to you that it is not just people who have taken very large housing loans. The head of Swedbank's Information Centre on Private Finance has also warned that, in his opinion, this reduction in tax refunds will have an impact on a large number of Estonian families who have taken a home loan and whose members have completed higher education in paid education or where children go to a community, kindergarten or paid school as of next year. Although at first glance this EUR 1920 appears to be a sufficiently large amount, there is a risk that, if the draft law enters into force, the spending of many families on learning and recreational activities will increase. So, in fact, it is families that are under pressure who have found greater opportunities for their children today. We also realise that the 1% tax reduction money that will enter into force during the next Riigikogu elections will not be collected by the state, but will be collected in the form of consumption taxes which are not yet known. Such tax transformation is no longer a burden on those who do not benefit from the tax reduction. This creates a situation in Estonia where the tax burden must be borne equally by everyone, but tax increases in the form of increases in consumption taxes also take their part from those who are already experiencing great difficulties in coping. It does not bring us closer to the Nordic countries; rather, we are drifting firmly towards countries that we do not want to be part of. I think that the Committee on Monetary Affairs could once again consider whether it is appropriate to thinn up the tax base of the Estonian state now if there are very many bottlenecks in education, healthcare and security that would require much greater support from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U238	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speakers spoke quite touchingly about the person. I think that's what lawmaking has to do with people. Now, however, specific arguments. Kadri was worried about the family where her daughter or son studied in paid education. It is certainly important for the coalition to enforce a free higher education programme according to the agreed deadlines. When it comes to action of interest, the coalition also aims to apply the so-called 'circulation' principle as a next step, according to how the country's economic opportunities allow additional electoral promises to be realised. Eiki Nestor argued that it would be misleading to say that the share of social expenditure in the state budget has increased in absolute figures, as if it were simply an arithmetical distortion caused by a fall in GDP. I dare argue with that in principle. This argument is clearly not true. I recall that the absolute value of income support was raised here in Parliament, which has a very clear financial impact. The amount of income support paid to persons has also increased. Parliament has approved a budget in which pension insurance funds had an increase of 5% in pension payments in 2009. There has also been a significant increase in payments related to the unemployed. So in absolute terms as well as in relative figures, the share of social expenditure in our state budget has increased. We respond quite well to the principle of the social state as enshrined in the Constitution in the structure of the state budget. Now for the positions that the draft contains. Firstly, in the opinion of the IRL Group, this draft makes sense; it must be dealt with. We have agreed on this coalition and we strongly support the coalition's agreed drafts as a coalition partner. We have also expressed a number of these views in our electoral programme and before the elections. I would like to stress here that taxation on the disposal of timber should be made more flexible by providing for a consolidated three-year tax period, which the IRL also promised in its electoral programme. Secondly, a reduction in labour taxes. The reduction in the income tax rate from 2015 will certainly have a stimulating effect on the economy, as highlighted earlier. I would point out that, in addition to the funds not directly received by the state budget, any tax reduction has a secondary effect on the revenue of the state budget. This means that the money involved in domestic tax reductions goes into internal consumption and, in turn, additional tax revenue comes from indirect taxes, among other things, which was brought to the attention of one of the previous speakers. The next issue concerns level training. The exemption from the special incentive fee for level training is also one of the clear promises of our electoral programme. We strongly support the enforcement of this promise in the form of a law. In summary, these proposals, as set out in this draft, are a tax policy programme that has been agreed upon in the coalition negotiations. We consider it useful to enforce it without stretching, so that all the addressees of tax law are informed of these changes long in advance, so that they can therefore plan their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U239	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the Bill amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. a 6 June at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U240	Mr President, I would certainly ask for more time. I might get carried away.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U241	Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the reform party's monetary policy is to make less earning people richer by less taxation, not poorer by taxation of those who have earned their property by honest work. That is a matter of principle. In general, the growth of value produced here in the global value chain is the key to economic growth in Estonia. What we have done and what we produce must become more expensive, more valuable and more competitive, and both productivity and price must increase. People create values, and that is why it is in the common interest of all of us that these people are employees, entrepreneurs, investors, and motivate them to earn more income, pay more taxes on it, consume services, etc. Between 2004 and 2010, income tax fell from 26% to 21% under the responsibility of the Reform Party. How much money is left to the average earner during this time? The calculations by the Ministry of Finance say that the recipient of the average salary has saved 26000 kroons over six years. This includes changes in the income tax-free minimum, changes in unemployment insurance contributions, as well as developments in the second pillar of pension insurance. Perhaps the average worker has won the most from a reduction in income tax of 26% to 21% and will also win from a reduction in income tax to 20% (only once this change comes into force). Every worker has gained the power to choose what to spend his or her money on and not on, so there are more opportunities to donate. I don't see Eik in the hall, but I want to tell him that I don't think it's a good tone to think about what it's personally worth. Donation is a betrayal, as the name says. According to OECD studies, income tax is one of the biggest economic influences. Estonia's success has been achieved by our simple and understandable tax system, which motivates working and earning income. In the opinion of the Reform Party, the social needs must be financed through collected taxes, not by non-collection of taxes. This is why interest on housing loans, training costs and donations (e.g. to political parties) can be deducted from income tax. A little less, i.e. EUR 1920 (EUR 30000) per year, but it still does. In fact, the family that borrowed the average home does not lose anything as a result of this change. For years, the issue of how the employer's costs of training workers should be taxed has been disputed. There is a need to invest in workers, but it is not in the general interest to give the possibility to withdraw tax-free money from the company, including to pay it free of tax to employees. The current amendment excludes the treatment of level-of-work training as a special advantage. The aim of the amendment is to reduce the tax burden by lowering labour taxes in order to encourage the creation of jobs with particularly high productivity levels and to create a prerequisite for an increase in the number of participants in lifelong learning. It is quite rude to recall the words of a large employer in South Estonia that they appreciate the willingness of a potential worker to learn, his ability to learn, when they hire people. If a person wants to learn, the employer must be able to teach him or her. Investment in employees must be taken as a normal investment aimed at creating assumptions for the future success of the employer, as this is the only way in which the value of the product in Estonia grows, our product increases in the global value chain and benefits both the employee and the employer. The draft law also makes the taxation of forest owners more fair. Half of Estonia is known to be forested and the forest is a significant source of income in rural areas in particular. Motivating the forest owner to start managing his forest is the purpose of amending the Income Tax Act. When the law enters into force, self-employed forest owners can manage their forest without having to pay income tax to the State in the first year. From now on, the forest owner will be entitled to a three-year tax period. This means that it has the right to lower the forest, sell it, plant it in place of the new forest and deduct the cost it incurs from its income, and only then will it have to pay tax on the remaining income. Data from Statistics Estonia say that annual economic growth in Estonia averaged 9.4% between 2001 and 2010, and the European average was 1.1%. Estonia's simple and uniform tax system has had a significant positive impact on economic growth, which is improving with these changes. It is a tax system that leaves more money in the hands of a working person and leaves him free to decide how to use it. It is a tax system that does not impose an excessive burden on entrepreneurs, allows for the creation of new jobs and gives people a better chance of creativity, which undoubtedly contributes to the economic growth of the whole country. Economic growth will lead to additional tax receipts, which will provide an opportunity to increase pensions and raise family benefits. It's how life heals for everyone. In the opinion of the Reform Party Group, this is a very good bill, which deserves not only further consideration but also adoption as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U242	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Urmas Reinsalu Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U243	Thank you. I must break the rule again in order to answer your question, because the tax rate in the Commission was not discussed at all. But just as it is now, the local government receives the percentage that has been imposed on it by law, and the share of the state is decreasing. This is a general principle. Local authorities cannot be harmed in any way by lowering this rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U244	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi has requested permission to participate in the negotiations with a speech. Pursuant to § 71 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, it is possible to give him the floor. Minister Jürgen Ligi's speech chair, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U245	This is where I was driven by a friend, Eiki, whose name I do not recall for the sake of the Rules of Procedure. He encouraged me further in my faith. I'm glad I'm not so good. He was talking here about policy making and not doing it, actually in the context of the debate and its substance. I've always liked the faith of the Sots to be such a hole. But one thing is hopeless where there are no holes. This is the claim that everything that is economic is non-social. In fact, it is the case that prosperity is not created in the public sector, that the public sector only redistributes and offers a different service. Prosperity, however, is created in the wider economy through benefits. Therefore, lowering the tax rate in an economically friendly way is a very social matter. But we can't come to an agreement here. The topic that we have actually thought about in the costaires in the same way, although there is a different story in Eiki's remote control, are tax incentives. It is very clear that, if all these benefits were to be lowered, this would increase the opportunities for public solidarity and would reduce non-solidarity mainly to a wealthier group, i.e. to non-socially distributed money. Tax incentives are the ones that take money away from social policy, from solving social problems, in a socially hostile way. Nobody agrees with me, he nods like that, but when he comes to the remote, he talks a different story. That's why I've used the comparison for the sots that if you offer them nicely, if they want a glass of wine, they'll say yes, and beer and vodka as well. I mean, they agree with everything that costs the budget, but they don't tell us where the goods come from. But, of course, there's a lot of reasonable people that it's easier to talk to in costaars than a remote control. I would not comment at all on Kadri's small inaccuracies when he said that lowering income tax somehow reduces access to medical care. This was probably a glitch, because medical care is financed from another tax. However, as regards the special benefit of level training, once again: exotic hobbies do not have to be paid for by public money. That is the point of the exact wording of this law. Exotic pastimes, hobbies, dead languages, languages of distant lands are work-related if this work really needs this skill. It's not just that we're learning because we like it because it's great. I am extremely sorry that we did not find consistency with the Ministry of Education during the previous minister's time that we should not spend the money that goes to harmonise the availability of medical services and education in order for someone to be able to deal with a hobby, a pastime. Forgive me, but Latin is, in most cases, an exotic hobby that is not related to the labour market. It could still be dealt with more with for its own money. I would point out that you can still benefit from the income tax credit, including by studying Latin. But why would one builder learn Latin at the expense of pension and sickness fund money? No, you don't. I'm sorry! Don't say that again, and don't insult that rule of law. It's very thoughtful. That's why this bill was stopped. Everyone wants to do something very interesting at the expense of the sick, but this benefit is generally meant to be necessary. Tax relief is justified if it is in the public interest, not because Jüri or Mari would like to keep the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U246	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I ask for a chair as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U247	We will continue to deal with the items on the agenda. The sixth item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Secretary of Finance Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft amendment to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity raises the excise duty rate on tobacco products by 10% from 2013. The aim is, of course, to increase revenue from the state budget, to bring the excise duty rate on cigarettes closer to the minimum rate of the European Union, which will enter into force in 2014, and also to achieve health protection targets. As a result of the increase in excise duty on cigarettes, the amount of excise duty calculated on the basis of the weighted average price increases from EUR 1.69 per package to EUR 1.86 per package, while the weighted average price of cigarettes increases to EUR 2.75. According to 2010 data, the weighted average price of cigarettes is EUR 2,2. The minimum amount to be paid on cigarettes will increase from EUR 80 to EUR 88 per 1000 cigarettes. The draft requires excise duty on cigarettes to be at least EUR 1.76 per package, irrespective of the variety, as from 2013. The excise duty on cigars and cigars will rise from EUR 191,73 to EUR 211 per 1000 cigars or cigarillos. The rate of excise duty on smoking tobacco and chewing tobacco increases from EUR 55,79 to EUR 61 per kilogram. Estonia has been granted a transitional period until 31 December 2017 for the implementation of the EU minimum rate of EUR 90 per 1000 cigarettes, which will enter into force in 2014. As a result of an increase of 10% in excise duty on tobacco, an additional EUR 9 million in excise duty and VAT is expected to be paid to the state budget in 2013 on the basis of a cash accounting basis. There is no impact on 2012 on the increase in tobacco excise duty. On the basis of accrual-based estimates, 20 million euros more will be received from the state budget in 2012 and 13 million euros will be received from the state budget in 2013. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U249	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U250	Thank you. Good minister! In Estonia, about 700 people get lung cancer every year, and almost as many men and women die from the same disease. The World Health Organisation recommends increasing the fixed tax rate in the structure of excise duty in order to give society the message that all products are equally harmful. This public health aspect is also supported by a directive from the European Commission. In Estonia, the fixed rate on the basis of the excise rates in force amounts to around 41% of the total excise duty. The directive allows it to be increased to 76.5%. When preparing the draft, has the Ministry of Finance also considered changes in the structure of excise duty, not just an increase in excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U251	Thank you. Thanks to your grateful attention, I raised this subject at the Ministry. Please take this idea, let us say, without prejudice and put forward arguments. I do not have a very strong conviction that changing the structure is good or bad. I also told the Committee on Monetary Affairs that I would accept what they would ultimately decide. Let's put forward the arguments, and then we'll consider it. The main risk is that the health protection aspect only works if the excise system itself is functioning and if there is no single crisps, so that overall the secret market increases and even more, or at least the former amount of smoke is pulled of questionable quality, in any case tax-free. This risk should not materialise. We will consider this concern and look at the estimates of recent tax receipts. It is extremely difficult to liquidate the cigarette secret market. In some countries these risks are lower and that is why it is easy for the European Commission to recommend this to us, but we have a pretty strong infection, particularly in the border regions. We shouldn't hurt here. So let's keep thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U252	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U253	Mr. Secretary of Finance! I am pleased that you mentioned smuggling and the cigarette secret market. That's my question. Does the increase in excise duty not exacerbate this problem now, especially given that, until 2017, we have been granted a transitional period for the application of the minimum rate, but we are essentially catching up with this European Union requirement in 2014 as early as 2013? From the point of view of smuggling, wouldn't it be worth delaying the increase in excise duty a little?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U254	Thank you. When we presented the bill, we actually thought we could cope with a 10% increase. Whether we can cope with more, this is a small area of meditation right now. If this minimum rate is to be achieved anyway, then more must be contributed to the control and culture that has highlighted such recommendations in Europe. I'm sure we'll have to work harder. IRS has more work to do. Perhaps the legislator also has a place to think about how to contribute here. In general, I have the impression that the majority of smokers are still affected by this increase in excise duty. I don't think most people smoke a secret smoke. But even if it is a minority, it is also an important place of consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U255	Thank you. Please, Andrus Island, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U256	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. According to the current law and the bill, excise duty is taken into account on a proportionate basis, as a result of which, now that we increase excise duty, the price difference between more expensive and cheaper smokes is increasing. This may lead to a situation where more expensive smoke consumers switch to cheaper smokes and that much excise duty may not be collected. Can we consider in the future that we should start taking excise duty into account on the basis of a fixed rate instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U257	Thank you. This is the same question that Maret Maripuu asked, I understand, only in a slightly different form. A little hesitation always arises in this interest. I myself, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, tried to be very sceptical about the proposals coming clearly from tobacco companies. I know that Maret Maripuu has just asked about the WHO recommendations, but a number of other politicians (I do not refer to you) have admitted that specific tobacco companies are active, which makes me more cautious about this proposal. I have to admit, if there's a smell of smoke in it, I have to ask if there's a business thing to do. Despite this hesitation, however, we have made reasonable cooperation with this category and have become clearer with their help. We just have to make a distinction where we tend to go along with business considerations and ignore this secret market threat too much. So my answer is actually the same: let's consider it. The question is understandable, but the answers are a little different, let's say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U258	Thank you. Please, Peter Laurson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U259	Thank you, President of the sitting. Mr. Minister! What is the share of snuff now and how much can it become after the law has been implemented? Could this increase in excise duty cover the money needed to combat the increase in the share of snuff?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U260	The final part of the question can be answered: it is difficult for us to compare. It is clear that a higher excise duty is a stronger incentive for the secret market, but whether the money needed to balance this strong stimulus is in any way so accurately valued, I doubt it. The size of the secret market is assessed very differently by the various institutions. If I say it's twenty percent, the tobacco companies won't accept it. The other thing is that these things change in time. The next meeting will be on Monday. We will ask again how much it is valued, and we will also try to inform the Riigikogu what the perception of the tax administration is now. This is also very much a matter of interpretation of perception and statistics. It's like tobacco companies are showing a bigger number than the IRS believes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U261	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U262	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You mentioned a European culture of taxes and excise duties in your previous reply. It is true that the tax and excise mechanisms are not the only ones, and communication also plays an important role in European culture. Is there any plan to contribute part of the tax that the state is going to collect more to tobacco communication so that these things go hand in hand? Or do we already have enough information?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U263	Thank you. I think that this link between a specific tax and a specific cost should not really be sought, rather we should avoid and cut off these links, because otherwise the flexibility and reasonableness of the use of money will suffer. But you could ask Hanno Pevkur, who can assess the state of play, to increase or reduce the notification. Continuous brainwashing can also have some negative effects. Breaching or resisting certain national regulations can even become a matter of pride and posture. After all, it is known that the consumption of luxury goods, which very few consume, will sometimes increase if the price of this commodity rises. Purely speaking, I would not rule out that the creation of a very negative background will stimulate vanity for certain groups. I just think there's a limit to moderation somewhere. We shouldn't go too far either. In recent times, it has been written in the paper how smokers view such warnings and announcements as to hear, that's ridiculous what you do. I don't know, maybe it's a pose. An evaluation could be made by the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U264	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U265	Thank you. Good waitress! Five tobacco products are currently covered by the law if my memory doesn't deceive me. At the same time, a number of new tobacco products have entered the market and are currently not subject to excise duty. Has the Ministry of Finance also reviewed the new products on the market and considered their taxation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U266	Thank you. You seem to be better informed of me. I think your data would be useful to me. I'm pretty mad at tobacco. So let me know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U267	Thank you very much to the Minister of Finance. No further questions. Thank you for the mighty marathon that has been here today! I would like a presentation by Erki Arrow, member of the Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U268	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft amendment to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity 42 was on the agenda of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 16 and 30 May. As the initiator's representative, the draft was presented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The aim of the draft is to increase the revenue of the state budget by 10% from 1 January 2013 by increasing the rate of excise duty on tobacco products by bringing this rate closer to the minimum rate of the European Union, which will enter into force in 2014. Raising the rate of excise duty on tobacco products also serves health protection objectives. Some of the questions that were addressed in the Commission were also raised by the Minister in his answers. The most relevant was the ratio between the fixed and proportional excise component, which is now 50:50. Figuratively speaking, fixed increases will increase excise duty on cheaper cigarettes and proportional increases will increase excise duty on more expensive cigarettes. There were different views on the subject and further questions. In addition, people's patterns of consumption and the secret market were touched, which was also asked about here. At yesterday's meeting at the Tax and Customs Board, it became clear, as the Minister pointed out, that the different authorities interpret the share of private cigarettes slightly differently. I guess that's the right thing to say. Well, we don't know exactly the proportion of salasi cigarettes, but it's estimated to be 29% off the border, at least according to the Institute of Economics. My colleague, Eiki Nestor, who has a great experience of smoking, proposed to increase the fixed excise duty to the same for all tobacco products. It was also said that in recent years people have increasingly started to buy cheaper cigarettes and allegedly lower quality cigarettes. This change has been very clear. There was a reference to lobbying. Lobbying is also very different. Some say that if there is a fixed excise duty, the country will receive less excise revenue than is proportional to the excise duty, it will receive more. The other group says exactly the same thing, only in reverse form. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance dealt with excise components 50: 50 intercourse on the issue of neutrality: importers of cheaper cigarettes or more expensive cigarettes should not be preferred. Of course, there was very strong lobbying, so-called business interests. That's pretty much how we had this hearing. Finally, I will mention the Commission's decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on 1 June and to close the first reading (this decision was consensual), to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 3 June (this decision was also consensual) and to propose, after the first reading, to put the second reading on the agenda on 8 June (this was also a consensual decision). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U269	Thank you. There's a question for the waitress. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U270	Thank you. Good waitress Erki! I'm asking you about the secret market, too. What do you think? It is clear that people in Ida-Virumaa, for example, do not cross the line with good life, but rather do so because of a very poor economic situation. Wouldn't it be worth delaying the increase in the rate of excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U271	If we also look at the increase in alcohol duty, it will actually take about one and a half years for excise duty to return to normal. Speaking of the market for secret cigarettes in the last decade, ten years ago it was a third, in the middle of the 2000s it was estimated to reach 20%, now it is, as I said earlier, 29%. When we talk about the country's loss of money and make simple calculations, we see that the size of the market for salasigarets is 890 million kroons. Of course, if we lived in an ideal society, we could direct 890 million kroons to improve social conditions in Ida-Virumaa, but obviously this is not the case. I have now presented the Commission's views on the panel. My personal view is that the increase in excise duty increases the secret product market. I think that one of the major tasks of our country, government and various power structures in the next few years is precisely the reduction of smuggling. It's not about the people who deal with the raids. They are the service providers that mediate channels, whether or not they are smokes, drugs, alcohol, radioactive substances, etc. In this respect, it is a matter of national security and this must be dealt with very seriously by the country. That's my personal position. I think that the state should spend more resources to combat smuggling.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U272	Thank you, Erki Arrow! No further questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 42 (s). tho June 3th at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U273	We come to today's seventh item, which is the first reading of the draft law on ratification of the 2006 International Tropical Timber Treaty, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U274	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government has submitted to the Riigikogu for ratification a draft law on the ratification of the 2006 International Tropical Timber Treaty and kindly asks Parliament to support this draft. If one of the other drafts on your agenda today was complaining and criticising members of the Riigikogu, the draft I will introduce is rather laconical. The draft consists of one sentence and I believe that it is precise enough so that the Riigikogu should be able to support its ratification. If the draft itself is very laconical, the agreement, which is an integral part of the draft, is somewhat more extensive. It consists of 46 articles. A brief overview of them now. As a preliminary point, it is a kind of successor to the 1994 International Tropical Timber Agreement. The agreement at the time was based on concerns about tropical forests. Trade negotiations were just as important in this agreement. The 2006 agreement will continue its work on previous agreements. The final version of the agreement before you was approved at the UN Conference on Trade and Development held in Geneva in 2006. To summarise briefly the content of this 46 article, it can be said that this is an agreement that, after ratification and entry into force, Estonia will jointly and severally support the introduction of sustainable forest management principles with other countries in countries where tropical timber is growing. The objective of the agreement is to extend and diversify trade in tropical wood from sustainable managed forests and to promote the sustainable management of forests producing tropical wood. How this is done, exactly what measures are to be taken, is set out in Article 1 of Chapter I of the Agreement. For example, the aim is, among other things, to create an effective framework for consultation between countries, international cooperation and policy development. The aim is to promote and support R &amp; D to improve forest management and the efficiency of wood use. The competitiveness of timber products vis-à-vis other materials is intended to be promoted in Member States producing tropical wood from sustainable management in order, inter alia, to contribute to employment opportunities and export revenues. But it is also intended to encourage members to support and develop the renewal of tropical forests and the remediation and restoration of degraded forest land. These are just a few examples. In total, as you can read from the agreement, 19 measures have been mentioned to help implement the principles of sustainable forest management. The International Tropical Timber Organisation has been established on the basis of the Agreement, which will also become a member after the entry into force of the Treaty of Estonia. The members of this organisation shall be divided into producer members, who, as the name suggests, shall be the country which has ratified any agreement between the Northern and Southern Circles, which has tropical forest reserves and/or is a net exporter of tropical timber by volume. The second type of member of this organisation is consumer members. These are the countries that have ratified the agreement, which are importers of tropical timber. Now for the expenses. Through this organisation, members will be able to submit proposals for the revision and financing of one project or another. All such projects will be financed through voluntary contributions from members, mainly from timber-using countries. This organisation also has compulsory contributions. These contributions are paid by the European Union for the Member States of the European Union. For example, the annual payment for Estonia is estimated at USD 36332. The entry into force of the Agreement is such that the Agreement has not yet entered into force internationally, but the Agreement will enter into force once it has been finally signed, ratified or approved by the governments of 12 producer members, who hold at least 60% of all the votes set out in Annex A to the Agreement. This has not yet been achieved. Similarly, it is a condition that the agreement must have been ratified by the governments of the ten consumer members listed in Annex B to the Treaty. This is undoubtedly an exceptionally good draft that the government is asking to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U275	Thank you very much for the waitress. No questions registered. Mr Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair, would you like to give a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U276	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment held its meeting on 16 May. A brief presentation was made by Andres Talijärv, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment. As intelligent people, the members of the Committee on the Environment soon realised that this was a very grateful act from the point of view of the environment and nature protection, so there was no very long debate on this subject. There were some questions, though. It was asked that if, up to now, only 55 countries have joined this agreement, which will go beyond this process, and whether there will be any impact on Estonia's accession to this society. The answer was that this process was still under development. There will certainly be more and more countries that will join this agreement over time. If we join this agreement, we will show our position and positions on this issue, precisely in the area that tropical wood must be managed in a lawful and environmentally sound manner. Tropical forests are very important in shaping the earth's climate. They are very species-rich and therefore particularly valuable forests. The committee agreed to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to finish the first reading and to propose to the Bureau that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 3 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U277	Thank you, good waitress! You have at least one question. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U278	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is undoubtedly important to agree with your view that tropical forests are very important to us. Was there a debate in the Commission on why we have only just arrived at the possible ratification of this Treaty, why we have not done so some time before, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U279	Thank you for that question. As you even know as a senior member of the Riigikogu, all decisions taken at the level of the Riigikogu must be very well prepared and discussed. Due to the fact that this process has been very thorough, we have only reached such a phase today that the Riigikogu will be able to make a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U280	Good waitress, no more questions. Thank you for your report. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. The Governing Commission's firm position is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 26 amendments on 3 June at 4 p.m. The first reading is closed and the sixth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U281	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. I am pleased to ask the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher for the Riigikogu Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the law on foreigners and related amendments to other laws aims to transpose a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union laying down minimum standards on penalties and measures applicable to employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. The aim of this directive is, of course, to cooperate between Member States in the fight against illegal immigration and also to bring measures to an even better level against illegal employment. Three laws are being amended to transpose the Directive: the Aliens Act, the Penal Code and the Individual Labour Dispute Resolution Act. According to the current law, the employer is prohibited from employing an alien illegally staying in Estonia, but the violation of this prohibition is currently only a misdemeanour. According to the Directive, the draft also provides for the possibility of penalising an employer in criminal matters where illegal employment was allowed under the following conditions: for a consecutive 12 months at least for a second time, for three or more aliens, as well as for a minor alien, for an alien victim of a criminal offence involving trafficking in human beings, or if it poses a threat to the life and health of an alien or has been treated in a degrading manner. A financial penalty or imprisonment of up to three years is provided for a natural person for allowing him or her to work illegally in Estonia, while a financial penalty is provided for a legal person. In addition, the draft provides that if an alien cooperates in the investigation of a criminal offence relating to the granting of illegal employment, he or she may be granted a residence permit for the duration of the proceedings, at the request of the prosecutor's office, in the event of an overriding public interest. The draft adds commitments to employers. Under the Employment Contract Act, the employer is obliged to keep the written document of the contract of employment for the duration of the contract of employment and for 10 years after the termination of the contract of employment. In order to transpose the Directive, an additional obligation is imposed on the employer to keep the data and copies of documents proving the existence of the legal basis for working in Estonia with the same deadline. Of course, liability does not apply to an employer who has retained the required documents and has not knowingly allowed illegal employment. The draft also provides for an exception for an alien in the resolution of labour disputes. It is foreseen that if an alien who has worked illegally in Estonia has left Estonia during the labour dispute, the labour dispute will be examined without the presence of foreigners. This derogation is necessary in order to avoid the opening of labour disputes, the real purpose of which is to delay the alien's departure from Estonia. The protection of the interests and rights of workers is guaranteed by the fact that that person has access to a representative. Finally, this draft provides for the adequate but least burdensome measures necessary to transpose the directive. The deadline for transposition of the Directive is 20 July 2011, which is why it is envisaged that the draft will also enter into force as a law at that time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U283	Dear Minister, You have at least one question. Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U284	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Have there been cases that, under the laws in force, someone has been apprehended who has used illegal labour in this way in Estonia, and if not, is it that there really are no such cases, or has not been tracked to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U285	Thank you very much, Paul! Yes, it has been. During the last five years, 434 misdemeanour proceedings have been carried out in relation to the possibility of illegal employment. There were 47 misdemeanour cases in 2010 and 35 persons were fined. The aim of this directive is to strengthen sanctions so that more severe penalties can also be foreseen. As a result, an amendment to the Penal Code is also foreseen. I can add that the largest number of such cases have been in the main business area, which we can call accommodation and catering.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U286	Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U287	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! First of all, this is really a very good law that we are discussing now. In fact, we should have come to this sooner, even without directives. I have a question about the wording that bothers me a little bit. 'In case of public interest', what exactly is it? Does this mean that a foreigner in this situation in Estonia must first go to the newspaper, give an interview, and then he will go to this section? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U288	Good question, Andres! Thank you! No residence permit has so far been granted on the basis of a weighty public interest. There's a chance like this now. It is currently limited to the victims of trafficking in human beings, a very serious form of crime. With this draft, we are also creating the possibility of granting a residence permit to the victim and the witness who will contribute to the detection and investigation of the crime involved in allowing illegal employment. Such a residence permit is granted for a certain period of time which can be extended. This is, of course, a concept that needs to be furnished. So far it hasn't been furnished, I have to say. It is a question of setting a precedent, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U289	Paul-Eerik Rummo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U290	Thank you very much. Perhaps you will still satisfy my curiosity about this really exciting subject: are there any data available on the countries from which illegal immigrants have so far arrived who have been illegally employed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U291	That's a good question for you, Paul. I can't tell you the list of these countries right now, but I'd be happy to send it to you. The number of these infringements over the last six years has not been very high, however noticeable. Surely these countries can be brought out. These are, in particular, third countries. I assume that these include a relatively large number of countries east of us and probably south of us. I am certainly happy to give the Commission an analysis of the distribution of countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U292	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U293	Thank you, Mr President. An equally good minister! There is no doubt that the procedure for this draft must be welcomed. All I'm asking is this. You said, and so the bill states that this law (when it becomes a law) will create additional obligations for employers. You named them, too. To what extent are employers aware of this through their representative organisations, and what is their position? The draft is planned to be enforced relatively quickly. Are they aware of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U294	Thank you, Väino! That's the right question. They're aware. This has been negotiated with both the Chamber of Commerce and the Confederation of Employers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U295	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Andres Herkel, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U296	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have much to add, because most of the questions that arose in the Commission have just been put in this Chamber. So, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this amendment to the Aliens Act on Monday, 16 May. The Commission was invited by the Minister and Ruth Annus, Head of the Migration and Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior. The draft law was introduced more or less in the same way as here. This draft follows from a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union adopted in June 2009. Väino Linde asked the same question precisely on the subject that employers might face certain sanctions and problems that did not exist in the past. The answer was exactly the same. The extent to which this directive has been transposed was asked. It is quite worth stressing that Estonia has now transposed the directive in the minimum possible way. The question arose as to how much labour is employed in Estonia from third countries. The answers were a bit of a second emphasis, but it was suggested that these people had 300-400 a year and that employers had a hundred misdemeanours per year, which the minister proved to have had 434 misdemeanours in the last five years. The decisions of the Constitutional Committee were to propose to the Riigikogu Board that it be placed on the agenda of the draft law today, 1 June, to appoint a rapporteur for the draft law, to propose that the first reading of the draft law be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4.45 p.m. on 3 June. There was no political disagreement with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U297	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiations either. The position of the commission is that the first reading must be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 43 amendments. a 3 June at 4.45 p.m. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U298	We go to the ninth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea, the Law on State Fees and the Port Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U299	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The amendment of the Maritime Safety Act requires the transposition of directives agreed in Europe. They concern port State control and the further development of the Community vessel traffic monitoring and information system. The transposition of the directives is time-critical, as we are somewhat exceeding the deadline for transposition. So I very much hope that this bill will find the support of the Riigikogu before the summer vacation. Now for the substance of the bill. It mainly focuses on strengthening maritime safety requirements and more precise determination of liability in the event of non-compliance with these requirements. We hope that the implementation of this law will contribute to maritime safety through the development of vessel traffic monitoring and information systems and the improvement of the port state control system in Estonia, as well as in the European Union as a whole. Now separate from some of the changes. First, the requirements relating to the carriage and notification of dangerous cargo are specified. Secondly, a detailed regulation on the notification of arrival and departure of the vessel is added. The possibility of granting exemptions in the event of notification of the arrival of the vessel shall also be added. Exceptions shall be granted to ships carrying out regular voyages and only if the condition that the Maritime Administration is able to obtain the relevant information by electronic means 24 hours a day. Thirdly, the law introduces the regulation of the electronic marine information system, which requires that communications from ships be made through an appropriate information system. The system is designed to receive mainly ship reporting and transmit them to the pan-European SafeSeaNet system. Under the current rules, the provision of data through the electronic marine information system is not mandatory. The electronic marine information system shall have a web-based system for entering data and shall not impose any additional costs on ship agents when used. Fourthly, the provisions on port State control applicable to foreign vessels are amended, in particular the grounds for imposing and repealing the ban on entry into port. The main change is the gradual development of the system of grounds for the revocation of the prohibition of entry into port. This means that depending on how many prior prohibitions there are, the period of withdrawal of the entry ban is also longer. Fifth, we're going to change the law on state fees. These changes are due to the fact that the Directive provides for the obligation that the costs of an expanded inspection of a ship which has been recaptured and defective in order to repeal the prohibition of entry into port and after inspection of the ship be borne by the owner or user of the ship. Sixth, we're gonna change the port code. The amendments to the Port Act result from the provisions of the Port State Control Directive. The Directive gives rise to an obligation to inform the Maritime Administration of maritime safety infringements in port. The implementation of the Act entails additional costs for the state budget for the development of the electronic marine information system for the years 2012 to 2014, orientingly EUR 100000. The implementation of the Act does not entail any additional expected revenues for the State. There are no additional costs for economic operators, since they already have similar information obligations under the current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U300	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. I thank the Minister. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Economic Commission, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U301	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law 25, the Maritime Safety Act, the State Tax Act and the Act amending the Port Act, was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 May. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; On 12 May, a broad-based working group was set up to review the issues raised on the draft. Specialists from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Maritime Administration participated in the work. As there were a number of observations and questions and, at the same time, the transposition of the Directive and the ongoing infringement procedure, the preferred solution was to submit the draft to the Commission, with the consent of the initiator, in a modified form. The debate on the draft, as amended, took place on 17 May at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, where Minister Parts, together with the specialists, explained this law to the Commission. The Commission, listening to the explanations, decided to consensually, first, send the draft law on maritime safety, state fees and port law to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 1 June, second, with the agreement of the initiator of the draft law amending the law on the port fee law, together with the amended explanatory memorandum to the Riigikogu for the first reading, second, to propose that the draft 25 be closed and, thirdly, set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Riigikogu on 1 June. 7 June at 5 p.m. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U302	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There is no wish to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 25 amendments. 7 June at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U303	We will go to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Rail Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U304	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Railway Act, which is before you, is necessary in order to bring into Estonian law the directives agreed in Europe on railway safety. There's three of them. The first concerns the procedure for obtaining a licence. According to the European Directive, the driver must obtain from the competent authority, the Technical Surveillance Authority in Estonia, a licence certifying the driver's compliance with the general requirements, and a supplementary certificate from the employer's railway undertaking giving the driver driving rights. The current procedure is that the licence provides evidence of the existence of driving rights and of compliance with the general requirements of the driver. We also impose requirements on railway undertakings so that the knowledge and skills of train drivers are monitored periodically and training enables drivers to develop continuously. The second directive concerns the safety of rail traffic. It provides for an obligation to include in the rolling stock register the data of the keeper of the rolling stock, which allows for more specific monitoring of the maintenance of the rolling stock. On the basis of these data, the location of the person responsible for maintenance can be determined, depending on the area of use of the rolling stock, the extent to which the vehicle has one maintainer's responsibility and other such issues. In addition, the draft law provides for a mandate for the Minister for Economic Affairs to introduce a regulation on the distribution of railway accidents and incidents, safety indicators and procedures for reporting them. This mandate also provides an opportunity to transpose the European Commission Directive. It is also established that data on safety indicators to be established under the Directive will be provided by the keeper of the railway infrastructure or rolling stock to the Technical Surveillance Authority by 1 June. During the procedure in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we considered that the railway law initiated by the government must be dealt with in sections. The draft proposed by the Commission in the Chamber today is shorter and limited to the amendments needed to transpose EU legislation. In the autumn, you will also be able to discuss other government proposals on rail law. Given that the transposition of the railway directives is also time-critical for the Estonian state, we undoubtedly agree with the agreement signed in the Committee on Economic Affairs to make one change before the summer vacation and come back to other issues in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U305	Dear waitresses, do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. I thank the Minister for his thorough presentation. Lembit Kaljuvee, member of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U306	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the procedure for the draft in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Three discussions took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs. A working group was first convened, where representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Technical Supervisory Board, as well as a representative of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, were invited. In this debate, it was found that the draft should be examined in two stages, which the Minister has already spoken about. This was proposed by a working group to the Commission. The Commission discussed the draft at two meetings. I will inform you which decisions were taken in the Commission. The first meeting on this issue took place on 17 May. The Minister of Economic Affairs and his team also participated, who explained the need for the draft and the content of the draft. The Commission decided to propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of the draft 27 (the decision was consensual) and to set a deadline for the submission of amendments. 7 June at 5 p.m. (consensual decision). These proposals were made on 17 May. It was proposed to review the amended text of the draft and the explanatory memorandum at the meeting of the Commission on 30 May. On 30 May the Commission held a meeting, the text was revised and the proposal made at that meeting was as follows: 'The amended text of the draft text and the amended text of the explanatory memorandum are to be adopted by consensus as a proposal. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-01_U307	I understand that it was also proposed to conclude the first reading. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No negotiations, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting the 27 amendments. 7 June at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the tenth item is closed. Good fellows! Thank you very much for today's sitting. The sitting is adjourned. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.57 p.m.
