ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Let's do the presence check first. 36 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 65 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Today we have two questions registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U2	Let us begin with Mr Allik's question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U3	Mr Prime Minister! Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, recently announced his decision to liquidate the Tartu Art Museum as an independent state institution under the administration of the Ministry of Culture and to merge it with the Estonian Art Museum. The Minister of Culture has also announced that it is time to overcome the division of Estonia into Estonia and Northern Livonia during the Tsar-Russian era, where both must have their own institutions and symbols. Did the Minister of Culture also coordinate his decision with your government office, and can we see in it the government's new cultural and regional orientation? Can we also see a pilot project in making Tartu Art Museum a branch in Tallinn, which may be followed by the conversion of Vanemuine into a branch in Estonia and the conversion of the University of Tartu into a branch in Tallinn University?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U4	Thank you. Sorry, there was a standard dose of bile on the question, you could have asked without it. The Minister of Culture has not coordinated with the government regarding the Tartu Art Museum, and I also know that the Minister of Culture has not signed any acts for liquidation, merger, transformation into a branch or whatever. Perhaps the current stage of the debate can be seen as a stage of involvement where all interested parties can shape the outcome of the debate. Thus, the Government of the Republic has not made any decision, and yet again, we have never discussed this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U5	Please, Mr Allik, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U6	Prime Minister! I'm sorry about the bile, but it was a little irony, not a bile, for God's sake. But the Tartians are a little anxious, and you, as former mayor of Tartu, are well aware that the main problem of the Tartu Art Museum, which has worked successfully and selflessly for more than 70 years, is the depreciation of the house on Vallikraavi Street. At the same time, the Headmistress of the Estonian Art Museum and Tartu Art Museum and the Museum Adviser of the Ministry of Culture made a joint statement that all museum collections will remain in Tartu and all art historians will remain working. Can you imagine how such a merger would help solve the museum's main problem, the building problem? Or is there, as the papers refer to, a real-estate businessman eyeing a nice house in a moat?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U7	Thank you. I am not such a hard art specialist that I could now define the main problem of the Tartu Art Museum. In my opinion, they have had quite a number of problems since then and they are not only related to the house, although the problem of the house has undoubtedly been topical for a long, long time. By the time I became mayor, the condition of the house had deteriorated to such an extent that it was no longer possible to organise exhibitions in that house. In order for the great values of the art museum to be displayed to the Tartu people in some way, we decided at the time to make the halls of the so-called crooked house available at the city government, and I thought it was a quite sensible decision. At the time, the Ministry did not have enough money to pay the rent normally for this exhibition space, and we then asked for five kroons per square metre, which, according to the rules at the time, was the lowest rental rate that a city government could ask for. Perhaps this decision could also be read of my attitude towards the Tartu Art Museum and the art depicted in Tartu in a broader sense. But I think that we do not have things in the best order in either art or culture, because it is known that we spend the most on the cultural sphere in the European Union as a percentage of the national budget, but at the same time we have the most unfortunate people, perhaps in this very cultural sphere. And above all, they're unhappy about the money, there's not enough money. Something needs to be done to ensure that both cultural makers and excavators are more happy, given how much of GDP is spent on culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U8	Please, Mr Allik, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U9	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Tartu people really remember your positive attitude towards culture and the Tartu Art Museum. As regards the cultural part of GDP, you and I have already had a fruitful discussion here. However, you did not answer the question of how the building problem could be solved with this and where these collections would be put if they remained in Tartu. However, I ask you to answer one question that Tiiu Talvistu, the scientific director of the Tartu Art Museum, directs: 'Would the Republic of Estonia and the City of Tartu win if they had a branch whose face and act is determined by the mother museum instead of a museum with their own face and identity and the healthy competition that has so far enriched our artistic life? '
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U10	Thank you. I'm not the right person again to talk about where art collections should be put. I cannot even say whether the conditions of storage have now become so bad that they cannot be kept there where they are now being held. I believe that the conditions of storage in Tartu will definitely improve in the near future, because the new building of the Estonian National Museum will definitely be completed. But I do not want to say now that the Tartu Art Museum will be merged with the Estonian National Museum. My message wasn't that. I just want to say that these savings opportunities also come to Tartu, but I think the current conditions are that art in Tartu will be preserved for centuries. What will be won? This should be asked by the authors of the reform programme. I can only guess where victory can come from. If the collection of art is managed from one centre, then there would probably be no unnecessary, dubious purchases, a collection could indeed be formed, which is a cross-section of the art depicting Estonia at a certain point in time, so that all periods can be properly covered. At the moment, it seems that there is rivalry and overpayment because of rivalry. Hypothetically, it could also be said that management costs can be saved if museums are managed centrally, and restoration activities will also be at a much higher level of quality than forces can be concentrated. So without giving an assessment of the specific reform programme, I dare say that there are certainly very high pluses in addition to the minuses.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U11	A question registered on the spot, Mr Randjärv, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! I would like to remind you that the previous government made a consensual proposal through the budget to start building a joint building between the Tartu City Library and the Tartu Art Museum. For this purpose, the budget line has allocated amounts for the organisation of the architectural competition and design contest. Thank you very much for your support. Among other things, there was the current Minister of Culture in the government, who also supported this idea. So these collections are certainly in the state of Tartu now that they need new rooms, and preparations have been made for this. When the city of Tallinn raised the land rent so much a few years ago that all the major museums in Tallinn were supposed to have drawn its budget, did you think that the current conflict came from the fact that the city of Tartu raised 3 kroons per square metre of the rental price of the art museum?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U13	I don't know what the conflict is about, and if he exists, what he was caused by. This three kroons is certainly not the kind of subject from which a proper fight can be brought up. I also understand the City Government of Tartu, which must receive at least enough money from renting premises to cover depreciation costs. The city of Tartu is not out in the field of artistic service, was not in those times when I was the mayor or when you were the mayor, and I am sure that I will not be out in the field of service even if Urmas Kruuse is the mayor. As for the construction of the joint building between the library and the museum, I have read in the paper that this architectural competition unfortunately went behind the fence. When he comes, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U14	Viktor Vassilyev, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U15	Thank you, Madam President of the Riigikogu. Mr Prime Minister! The Estonian is not so genetic as a cultural and linguistic phenomenon, it is based on our difficult history. Culture is therefore very important to us. As you have just mentioned, 1% of GDP is still low and the situation of artists will not improve much in the coming year. At the same time, we know that defence spending will increase by 18%. Estonia has not lost a war this year and I don't think it will be war next year either. However, would it not have been appropriate to reduce the cost of protection and increase the allocation for culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U16	Thank you. I didn't understand what percentage you were talking about. According to Eurostat, the Republic of Estonia spends 2.3% of its GDP on culture, which is the highest share of the European Union's cultural expenditure in gross domestic product. The EU average is 1.2% of GDP. The volume of cultural expenditure in the next year's budget will increase by 11% according to COFOG and cannot be considered as a small increase in cultural expenditure. We know that much of this year's budget took over Tallinn as a capital of culture. Next year, Tallinn is no longer the European Union's Capital of Culture and it is not as if it makes sense to include this money in the base, but there is growth, despite the fact that an important funding article will fall away, still 11%. That's a very high percentage! I can't agree with those who think I'm quoting someone else right now, it's not my own idea that it's the way it is, and to want it to be somehow different, is specific to those who don't understand that it is the way it is. If we spend 2.3% of gross domestic product on culture and dissatisfaction is general, certain changes are essential and I would welcome these ministers, these politicians, those cultural leaders who come up with new ideas. I wouldn't start kicking those ideas out right now, whacking them because suddenly there's something rational about which everyone wins.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U17	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Randjärv, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U18	Thank you. To clarify, the architectural competition did not go beyond the fence, but its results were contested by one of the participants who did not win it, which is quite normal for competitions. My question is: is the attitude, then, that if there is a first appeal in a competition, it is worth burying the idea, which has been in the budget for a few years and decided in the cabinet? In my opinion, however, continuity could continue. In ERM too, the results of the competition were contested and dissatisfied, but therefore the idea of building it was not thrown into the corner at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U19	Thank you. Dear Laine, I haven't thrown this idea into the corner, I'm just stating the fact that it's a dead end. Money has been allocated to the state budget, and everything should continue according to the plan, but the plan has failed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U20	Thank you. We will conclude the discussion on the Tartu Art Museum. Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U21	The next question is from my colleague Rainer Vakra to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of the Environment! I am delighted to note that my question is far from blissful, and I have the opportunity to begin with praise. In comparison with the Member States of the European Union, Estonia is at the top of the disbursement rate of the structural funds as of 1 July, with 29.3%. We are followed by our neighbour Lithuania with 27.6% and Ireland with 25.6%. The Ministry of Finance is forecasting external funds to be disbursed at the end of 2011 between EUR 850 and 900 million. However, as a member of the Committee on the Environment, I am concerned that the Ministry of the Environment has so far used the least of its foreign resources. To be exact, 15.2% and 24 million euros. Hence the question: why has this situation arisen, and is there no risk that, in the field of the environment, European structural funds will not be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U23	Thank you, good questioner! I, too, want to start answering with praise. When the Prime Minister criticised the author of the first question a little bit of bile, I would like to thank you for having taken a very constructive approach to this issue both in the Committee on the Environment and in the Committee on European Union Affairs. Yesterday, in the European Parliament, there was a report analysing the capacity of the Member States to make efficient and sensible use of euro money and how the Member States have managed to implement European funds in a way that also creates jobs in the Member States and supports growth. Two Member States were highlighted as a positive example in the report, one being Poland and the other was Estonia. So if we ourselves are often very critical and we want more, better and faster, then generally we are quite well off compared to the countries of the European Union. As far as the environment is concerned, I believe that the Estonian environment is perhaps one of the most winning areas of UCITS. In a relatively short time, for example, we have improved the quality of drinking water for over 300000 people, we have directed a great deal of resources to make more rational use of resources, such as renovating heating systems. Wintertime is approaching, the heat supply has been renovated several dozens of kilometres. One example is the municipality of Orissaare. In Orissaare, from 3 October, the price of a warm room is reduced to consumers precisely because the municipality has mastered and wanted to make a very reasonable use of the UCITS. So I think there are a lot of positive examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U24	Mr Vakra, please give me the first point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U25	Thank you. I am pleased to continue in a positive key and, of course, I believe that there are a number of examples where the UCITS have been well used. However, I would like an answer to my question as to why the Ministry of the Environment has been most modest in comparison with other ministries and, based on the results of the half-year, the percentage of use continues to be 15.2, which is, as I have repeatedly said, the most recent in the ranking. What have we done together to make the Ministry of the Environment a gold medal by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U26	Thank you. Even if I really wanted to, I'm afraid a jump of this size in such a short time will probably not succeed. But what are we doing in the Ministry of the Environment and in the implementing unit for funding this area, which is known to be the Environmental Investment Centre, in order to speed up these disbursements? We have, in part, followed the same report that has been discussed in the European Parliament referred to above, such as the advice to reduce the various bureaucratic steps that must be taken to make payments. That's what we've been doing at the Environmental Investment Center. We have implemented such a system that all projects are divided into red, yellow and green projects on the basis of traffic lights, and the red projects, which are particularly critical, are particularly attentive and are indeed dealt with in a very thorough manner. The result of all of this is that, in the last three months, disbursements in the priority axes we have been responsible have been record. Each month, disbursements have been more than EUR 11 million, and this is quite a major and rapid improvement and improvement. Of course, I would like payments to be even higher, but it must be said that these projects are, in most cases, quite complex. Their preparation has gone somewhat slower than expected at the beginning. There have been many disputes, and unlike some other areas, our partners are mainly local authorities and non-profit organisations, and they were not ready to take projects from the drawer, but were still preparing projects. It's all been slowing down the payout somewhat. But I'm glad we've been able to move behind such a big rock, and in recent months, these payments have really been record.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U27	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U28	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister! I would like to ask whether the Minister or the Ministry already has a draft plan to which the euro grants will go in the coming years. I believe that this is what local governments need to know in order to correct their plans for the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U29	Thank you. Plans will indeed be in place for the next few years, and in the coming years, as this year, we will still have to make the most of the resources available for the current period. After all, we have had a lot of talk with the municipalities about how to advise them more if necessary, how to go to help, so that this money can already be used, maybe a little more effective and faster. So it's a daily thing. But you obviously meant the next financial perspective. The first discussions are ongoing in this regard. Of course, we are asking for and consulting, we are also consulting with several municipalities in precisely the context in which a sharp edge should be directed in the next period. I consider it reasonable that one of the main directions is to make investments that help to make the most efficient use of resources, which, with as little resources as possible, will help to achieve a somewhat more effective and better result than has been the case so far. So this is probably one area. But this preparatory work is only in its initial phase, and I hope that, together with both the Committee on the Environment and the European Union Affairs, we will discuss and deal with this issue on the right number of occasions in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U30	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U31	Thank you, Madam President of the Riigikogu. Madam Minister! Do you see now that the planning period ends, that there is still money left under some programmes, and if there is, have you discussed the relocation between the programmes, the extension of some kind of programme, the addition?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U32	Thank you. There will certainly be no money left over if we are talking about the use of UCITS as a whole, there is no risk of that. But it is true that there are some sub-sections where we are still waiting for the project to start. One concerns, for example, the upgrading of the de-icing system of Eesti Energia. This is one of those projects that have so far not been implemented for any reason. We have now consulted quite intensively with Eesti Energia on how to use this money sensibly so that the problems of oil shale energy waste facilities can be resolved through UCITS. As far as modulation is concerned, it is probably no secret that water projects, for example, are already showing that the right price increases are taking place in several places. The rules make it possible to cover up to 30% of the cost increase. This volume is not yet so high that the increase in the cost of all projects should now be covered by a relocation of some other measures. That is why we are not yet planning any very thorough relocation. Rather, it is our aim that the objectives of obtaining clean drinking water be met and, if necessary, that it is precisely in this area that we should move money around at the expense of another measure where money is not used in full.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U33	Please, Mr Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. It is not an end in itself, after all, that we are still trying to achieve some of the objectives that we have set before us in terms of the money we can. Could you answer by looking at how and how much we may fail to fulfil environmental, environmental, environmental protection tasks or being partially executed because things are running a little longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U35	Once again, when I start from the back, I say that the stretching, as you call it, is due to the fact that the projects have been prepared for a very long and thorough period. However, the examples of these last few months confirm that we have now increased the pace of disbursements quite properly. So if any goals are not met, I do not have the courage to say at this point. In any case, our aim, as I have begun, is to make reasonable use of these resources and to fulfil the tasks that we have set out to achieve a cleaner environment. Whether we are talking about drinking water, upgrading these same heating systems, renovating heat lines or, for example, environmental education. There is a great deal of money being channelled into environmental education through UCITS. So I think that all these objectives are being achieved and that all our partners also take this very seriously. If they have concluded a contract, if they are committed to implementing the project at a certain pace, then it must be dealt with. There's no way to push it anywhere far away or stretch it, we can't afford that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U36	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U37	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary! This same environmental education was immediately continued. Perhaps this is going to be too specific, but perhaps you have been talking about such an excellent programme as the Environmental Education Infrastructure Programme. It was a very good programme and relatively small-scale, funded about 10 sites in the field of environmental education, but at the same time there were significantly more applicants. Has it been mentioned that the environmental education infrastructure programme could come up with more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U38	Thank you. I have the right number of pages here, which show the state of play of this same environmental education infrastructure project. I am not going to read it all out, but I will gladly pass it on to you later, and you will also be able to look at the progress of the projects currently decided. At present, it seems that the greatest additional need may arise precisely in these water projects mentioned above. Whether we can channel extra money into other sub-sections, we must discuss it. But I will say once again that the same reference has been made to the upgrading of the Estonian Energia ash discharge system, which is currently shoving, but most projects have been launched, most of the sub-sections already covered by the decisions. So I hope that no one has such a mistaken idea that money is just standing somewhere and is somehow unsolved or that there is no idea how to put it into practice. Quite the opposite. So, above all, water projects are likely to be the ones to which the money will be channelled. But in the same way, we have decided, for example, that new trams that produce on line 4 in Tallinn will receive support for the construction of infrastructure, namely from euro funds, and this amount will amount to more than 18 million euros. This is a very large amount of money and is one of the kind of additional funding that has come into these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U39	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U40	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! It's good to hear that at first you didn't get lucky, in the end you can't keep that everything that's been done will be fulfilled. But what about the next period of euro funding? Does the Ministry deal with us not being in a situation where it takes a year and there won't be any projects until we finally get it going? How can we get into this rhythm so that we do not act 'wavely', but have clear goals and clear goals, which are even longer thought out?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U41	Thank you. Objectives and targets are certainly clear. Of course, another option would be that we decide to channel euro money into projects that we have somewhere to take from the drawer, but I do not know if this is the most sensible one. It is, in itself, clear what area we want to develop, or what is, for example, this specific, specific area of the environment to contribute to, is drinking water, it is air clean, it is a more rational use of energy resources, does not necessarily mean that specific projects are already waiting for someone in the drawer. It will, of course, take time to prepare these projects, and I think that this is a perfectly normal, sensible course of action. It is therefore probably quite inevitable in the area of the environment that the beginning was somewhat slower than many expected and expected. I don't see much tragedy in it. I am really rather glad that things are now over, and with disbursements, things seem to be only going for the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U42	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U43	Now we have a chance to ask questions. Please state the name of the minister and then ask a question. One moment, I'm sorry! You can't see the names of the questioners on the board. We're moving on, though. As far as I know, Tarmo Leinatamm was the first to appear. I couldn't react to write it down. Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U44	Thank you. The question to the Prime Minister, the subject is EFSF and the expected answer is that it is wooden and red. Suppose the EFSF is formed, countries A and B have qualified and received credit. State A is doing well in fulfilling its obligations, but State B is facing obstacles that have become such at one point that it can be seen that this country is no longer able to cope with its obligations, and the EFSF creditors are beginning to become restless. Perhaps you will now explain the order in which this hairy bailiff's hand will arrive in the Estonian state's purse, or when this claim will turn against the guarantors.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U45	Thank you. First of all, of course, State A and State B should receive a loan. When we talk about EFSF, we haven't even reached this stage yet, so, for example, the same Greece, according to your classification, supposedly country B, could start to get a loan from EFSF. As far as Greece is concerned, they are currently receiving loans from the assistance mechanism set up under bilateral loan agreements and the funds for this assistance mechanism have not yet been exhausted. We know that Greece should make very serious efforts to obtain another loan payment of EUR 8 billion. They should immediately close 30 loss-making state-owned companies, they should immediately fire, let go of 20,000 civil servants, they should send 150,000 public servants to the labour reserve. The point of sending a reserve is that during their status as a reserve, they are paid lower wages and their future is very clear, they are all released from the state office, they are laid off. The preconditions include, for example, the limitation of pensions, i.e. cuts in pensions, cuts in civil servants' wages, etc., etc. The state must meet these conditions and then he will receive another loan payment. In general, these conditions are set in such a way that the State can, once and for all, serve its loan payments without assistance from the International Monetary Fund, EFSM, EFSF or ESM. And even if we doubt the capabilities of European Union officials or the capabilities of European Central Bank officials, we should not doubt the capabilities of IMF officials. They have already done this throughout the period after World War II, and under their control, the countries have fulfilled their obligations properly. But please, next question, I'll keep answering.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U46	In my opinion, the other colleague, Marika Tuus-Laul, was. Who was the third?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U47	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question for the Prime Minister and it concerns the state budget. Early this morning, Eesti Pank came out with a statement saying that the outlook for economic growth has deteriorated considerably in recent weeks and that uncertainty in the global economy has increased. Eesti Pank advises you not to base your state budget on a three-year growth forecast but on a plus one. Knowing your previous answers that our economic growth has been surprisingly high in the second quarter, I would still like to remind you that we have only returned to the level of the first quarter of 2006. Shouldn't we be a little more realistic in the forecasts this time, because the previous times, when the fall was one of the biggest in the world, we were very optimistic about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U48	Thank you. I don't have the opportunity to ask you what you'd prefer, under the rules of procedure. Is it an even more conservative budget or what the government is handing over to the Riigikogu today, or would you like to make it more optimistic? As the opposition usually comes with a desire to raise salaries with money that is not paid into the budget, I somehow think that your preference would probably not be the budget that the government is handing over to the Riigikogu today, and indeed not the budget that the Bank of Estonia wants, but rather a more optimistic budget. I assure you that the budget to be transferred today will also withstand a more conservative, pessimistic forecast by the Ministry of Finance in such a way that, by the end of the financial year, the government deficit will remain within the framework of the European Stability and Growth Pact. I cannot agree with those who think that the country has only fiscal objectives. Fiscal goals are certainly important, but life is much more versatile than just monetary numbers. Then perhaps we know that we do not currently have the means to increase, for example, wages in the budget. Our budget is going to increase, but it is going to grow greatly because we are using funds from the sale of Kyoto allowances this year and last year next year. What, then, is the alternative, shall we not use the budget for a smaller budget? I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U49	The third questioner, as I recall, was Mr Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U50	Dear Minister of the Environment, Yesterday, the Committee on the Environment discussed the Maritime Policy Development Plan. Estonia is a maritime state, and I hope that the government will not throw a gun into the bush after the Riigikogu Board first rejected this development plan for procedural reasons. I also think that the development plan for maritime policy needs to be approved at the level of the Riigikogu. We discussed the development plan with the relevant ministries and the Estonian Nature Foundation was represented at the meeting, who has actively expressed their views. We considered that the development plan should specify and complement the points relating to fisheries, oil pollution control and maritime planning, so that the environment would be planned in the future, or that wind farms would not be made to random locations. Do you see that the Ministry of the Environment can contribute to supplementing these parts and that this development plan should come to the level of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U51	Thank you, good questioner! The debate on the subject of maritime policy was also opened at a government meeting and there was also an exchange of views on the same points that you referred to. I myself have also been in contact with the Estonian Nature Foundation and the Estonian Environmental Association Chamber, for example, and I am fully aware of the problems and partly share their concerns about this document. But that doesn't mean that the whole process we're going through is gonna have to stop now, so we should go on with it. With regard, for example, to the issue of maritime planning, the Minister for Regional Affairs, who is responsible for this area, is, in my opinion, on the right track to the fact that this is an issue that needs to be dealt with. In the Ministry of the Environment, we really face the problem every day that there has been no maritime planning so far. How to do this, we are going to discuss it with the Minister of Regional Affairs in the near future. The Ministry of the Environment and our agencies already have a number of different layers of maps, which, by binding together, would actually be able to complete a large part of this plan in a rather short period of time. I think it would be important, as soon as possible, to determine at least those places in the sea where one or the other construction activity can not be established at sea, whether for reasons of protection, environmental protection or protection of habitats, these reasons are very different. This work should run in parallel and continue despite the fact that the Riigikogu is discussing maritime policy. But in the end, this is not the area of the Ministry of the Environment, but I would like to congratulate all those who live with tennis, because our Kaia Kanepi has just won the world's first racket!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U52	Hooray! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start again with the questions. Mr Viktor Vassilyev, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U53	Thank you, Madam President of the Riigikogu. My question is for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister! At the moment, it is planned to give the health insurance fund and the unemployment fund reserves to be administered by the Treasury, paying them fair interest. The question, however, is what fair interest is. Is that the same interest rate as the one that can borrow money from the markets, or is that interest lower? If interest is the same, is such a practice fair to people who, in their understanding, deposit their contributions at the unemployment fund and at the health insurance fund? But if interest is lower than market interest, is that not unfair to the sickness fund and the unemployment fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U54	Thank you. Fair interest is what the parties agree on, and I expect that an agreement between the parties should be reached on the deposit of the reserves of both the sickness fund and the unemployment fund with the Treasury. Surely neither the Health Insurance Fund nor the Unemployment Insurance Fund can aim to earn as much interest income as possible, because we know that if the margins are high, if the chances of making a profit are high, then the risks are higher. If you go to make a lot of money, it could mean that the whole investment, the whole deposit, is going to be lost. Social security funds should hold their funds in very conservative instruments, and it is precisely this service that the Treasury is prepared to offer to both the unemployment fund and the sickness fund. In fact, there is no problem at all with the Health Insurance Fund because, from the beginning of time, the cash flows and reserves of the Health Insurance Fund have been managed by the Treasury, so there is no change in nature. The change could be to switch to the use of the Treasury accounts, which could be a big win for the Health Insurance Fund, because then they would no longer have to pay bank transfer fees; they would be borne by the Treasury. In the case of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, EUR 25 million has been managed by the Treasury at all times; the rest of the funds have been placed elsewhere. With what kind of risk, I can't confirm that here. I assume, however, that an agreement will be reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U55	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U56	Thank you, good manager. A question for the Minister of the Environment. Since the Ministry of Finance didn't have any good answers, I'm gonna ask the Minister of the Environment. Perhaps you can explain how a large number of buildings of the State Forest Management Centre, which is very well capitalised in itself, have been included in the list of buildings renovated with so-called CO2 quota funds. Is it reasonable to prefer these buildings to a number of objects of significantly higher public interest and social interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U57	Thank you. I would perhaps start a little further away and briefly talk about how the choice of AAU deals is going to be made at all. The decision on where to invest is for those transactions to be made by the country that buys units from Estonia. The criterion to be taken into account is, in particular, the energy savings achieved for each particular project and object, the higher the energy savings, the preferred or more attractive projects are for buyers. Similarly, the number of people who qualify as beneficiaries for a given object is an important criterion. As far as the examples of RMK are concerned, despite the fact that these investments and projects are not very large, I do not think it is reasonable or right to discriminate against institutions for being able to manage their economic activities well. If they are able to propose investment objects with high energy savings and a high number of potential beneficiaries, then there is no reason to delete them simply because they are an effective firm or institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U58	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U59	Thank you, Madam President. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Two weeks ago, on 14 September, in answering a question right here in this Chamber, you said literally: 'I hope that the reserves of the unemployment fund have not been placed in Greek banks. ' Was it irony, or do you, as Prime Minister, not have an overview of where the unemployment fund reserves are placed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U60	Thank you. As Prime Minister, I do not have an overview of where the unemployment fund reserves are placed. I think, in principle, I could find out where these reserves are placed, but I am not entirely convinced of that either, because this is a public entity and the need for knowledge does not exist under the law. So my hope is still valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U61	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U62	Thank you, Madam President. My question is to the Prime Minister and it also concerns the management of the reserves of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund. The Confederation of Employers has proposed to reduce the unemployment contribution rate to pre-crisis levels as early as next year. The Confederation of Trade Unions has stated that the increase in reserves would continue even if the total unemployment contribution were to be reduced from 4.2% to 3% today. What is the position of the Government of the Republic on this issue in relation to the fact that the Coalition Agreement only provides for a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions from 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U63	Thank you. A good questioner answered the question himself. The government's unequivocal view is that the unemployment contribution rate will be reduced from 1 January 2013. Until now, the unemployment fund reserves have not reached the planned volume, and I believe that, especially at a time when expectations of economic growth tend to go down all over the world, we do not have the point of stopping collecting the unemployment fund reserves and telling us that now we are happy and that there is no way we can get any worse, everything bad is already behind us. From the past crisis, which has passed a great deal for us, we have learned that the collection of reserves for a small country is of paramount importance. If the whole of Europe, if the whole world is currently struggling with an unprecedented credit crisis, then we can say that we are not affected by this crisis, and it is not only because we were able to raise significant reserves for our country in 2002‐2007 and especially in 2007. In my opinion, we could retain our sustainability now, even though Estonia's public finances are among the Member States of the European Union's best-performing public finances.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U64	Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U65	Thank you very much, Chairman. I call on you, along with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to fly into a wide world, as the prophet Muhammad once did on Buraq, the winged creature, which is the question of Palestine. Since our hearing last night was so long, we never got to meet the Foreign Minister. We know that our position on Palestinian statehood is largely aligned with that of the United States, and we really support 'bilateral negotiations'. However, information has come to my attention that many countries in the European Union may be nuanced on one side or the other. What are the first rumours of the United Nations now? Is this really the case, and what alternatives can the European Union bring?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U66	First of all, as regards the position on Palestinian statehood, here Estonia's position coincides with that of most countries of the world, according to which the aim is that Israel and the Palestinian state should coexist peacefully. So when we talk about the objective, the aim is the two-state solution, so that Palestine really becomes independent and exists peacefully with Israel. The question is, how is this possible? Unfortunately, no one likes it or not, if we look at the developments that are currently taking place in the region and the developments that have been there in recent decades, the only realistic way to create a situation where the two countries are peacefully side by side is if these two agree on it. So, of course, with the clear support of the international community, including the UN, the European Union, as well as many other countries. At present, yes, one process has begun at the UN, because last Friday the Palestinian Authority submitted to the UN Secretary-General a request for membership of the UN. In accordance with the UN Charter, this statement went to the UN Security Council. As we know, Estonia does not yet belong there. So the position on this statement must be taken by the UN Security Council. To date neither Palestine nor anyone else has submitted any resolutions on this matter to the United Nations General Assembly, or to this assembly, where Estonia is also a member.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U67	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U68	Thank you. The question is also for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet. The first question is, where's your squirrel breast mark? But to get serious, the question of the enlargement of the European Union. Is the debt crisis in the countries of the European Union also becoming an obstacle to the enlargement process? I am asking this because last week a delegation from the Icelandic Parliament visited our Parliament, who was also interested in these matters. We know that Croatia is about to conclude its negotiations and that several countries are waiting. Has this moment of crisis caused Member States to hesitate about enlargement, or has this apparent weakness in Europe led to hesitation in the accession countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U69	Thank you. The squirrel mark is safe. As far as the debt crisis is concerned, there is no doubt that such turbulence, such a degree of uncertainty in Europe will certainly be water for those who, anyway, despite the current developments, would have been and have been sceptical about the future enlargement of the European Union. So this certainly gives them additional arguments, which do not have any relation to the reality of the enlargement of the European Union as such and the principles why the European Union has widened so far and why it should continue to expand in the future, that is, as regards freedoms and European security. But there is no doubt that any negative developments and problems in the European Union will affect all aspects, including enlargement. As we know, the decision that Croatia will join the European Union on 1 July 2013 has been taken. Accession talks are under way with Iceland, I hope they go relatively painlessly. New decisions should be taken in December, particularly with regard to Serbia and Montenegro. So here the future will also depend on what the European Commission comes up with with a proposal or an assessment. Estonia's position is clear in itself and has not changed. Our attitude continues to be that all European countries that meet the criteria and conditions must have the opportunity to join the European Union. The main reason for this attitude is the expansion of the same space of freedoms, stability and security around us, which directly affects us.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U70	Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U71	Thank you. It is also a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The background to the question is probably the observation we all have that around the big issues, society often has a variety of myths, information noises and, unfortunately, also, direct media deformities, or factual errors, and so on, which causes this vague anxiety in society, and perhaps unjustified or regrettable fears and fears among some groups of people. Have you noticed or can you point out any foreign policy issues that Estonian society may not be adequately informed about and which could cause such unnecessary anxiety?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U72	No, I would not like to make any specific points here, but I believe that in any question, including foreign policy, it still happens that the information is not always omnipresent, that it is one-sided and that there is perhaps more emotion, which may also cause anxiety if needed. So in this respect, for the people of Estonia who are seriously interested in what is happening around us in the world, there is a suggestion not to limit themselves to just one medium. If possible, it is also worth following the media and analytical articles of the rest of the world. This will certainly help to make the picture as perfect as possible and to minimise the risk of falling victim to unnecessary emotions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U73	A quick question from my colleague, Inara Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U74	Thank you. My question is for the Minister of the Environment. Dear Minister, We visited you with the people of Haanjamaa during the summer, and we were talking about the establishment of the Tallike target protection zone. We also made an inquiry to you, and I went to the counselor to ask for more information about this whole thing, but I haven't received an answer. Can you explain what it is that you do not reply to e-mails and do not reply to my written inquiries?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U75	Thank you. We can probably work out the details between us. I really received written questions from the Riigikogu during the summer, which were forwarded on behalf of Mailis Reps, and written answers have been sent away a long time ago. I've sent more than official channels to anyone who's asked for them on my e-mail. So the reply has long gone away to Mailis Reps from your group, which has been asking questions. However, as we talked about at the meeting, the issue in question is whether to introduce and to what extent to establish a restricted zone for private countries as well. And, as I have assured you, we are once again analysing the possibility of extending the protected area, particularly in the states. But it is also true that a protected object or a protected habitat can be protected where it is. In heritage conservation, we cannot imagine, for example, that only land owned by the State or the municipality would be protected in the Old Town. If it's a value, he's got to be protected. But we are looking for a solution to this issue. As for the problem that you have not been provided with the answers we have sent, I think I can send them out of this e-mail in a moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Question Time is over. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their questions and thank the members of the government for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U77	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Prime Minister! We will start the third working week session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U78	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is initiating today, firstly, the draft State Budget Act 2012; secondly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit, the Act on Artificial Reproductive and Embryo Protection, the Act on Unemployment Insurance and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office; thirdly, the Act on the Temporary Organisation of Payment of Occupational Wages Related to Estonian Average Wages, the Law on Official Wages of Senior Officials, the Law relating to the transfer of the Courts to the Ministry of Finance, the State Budget Act and the Law of the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic shall be represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when dealing with these drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U79	Thank you. I have adopted three draft laws on behalf of the board. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on the procedure for granting them to the proceedings within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to § 155 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Prime Minister wishes to make a political statement that lasts about 15 minutes. On the basis of § 155 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Board of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister agreed that no questions will be asked to the rapporteur. Following the Prime Minister's statement, negotiations will be opened, during which the representatives of the political groups may speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U80	I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U81	Madam President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has just handed over the draft state budget for 2012 to the Riigikogu. The Honourable Riigikogu will start to process the budget at a time when the Estonian economy is growing, the export volumes are growing, businesses in our small, good country find new markets, foreign investments are being made, new jobs are being created, unemployment is falling rapidly, and tax receipts are much better than planned in the budget. There were times when such a situation would almost obviously have meant having a positive supplementary budget. Not anymore. Estonia, like other countries, is more experienced by one global financial crisis. The global and European financial markets have become very volatile again in recent months. The fiscal problems in the US, the ambiguity of the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area, the overheating of emerging markets and higher commodity prices have exacerbated the outlook of the world economy and caused profound disruptions in the normal behaviour of the markets. Despite improvements this week, most European and US banks still have a total of 40-50% cheaper shares than at the end of June. Economic forecasts have been made more pessimistic around the world, including with Estonia's main trading partners. All of this should convince us of the need to pursue a conservative fiscal policy. The 2012 draft state budget of Estonia is the first of the new government to be handed over to the Riigikogu. This is a budget based on both the reality of the global economy and the promises made to voters in the spring. This is a conservative budget. It is a budget to increase stability and employment. Only when public finances are in safe hands and the economy is in order can the salaries, pensions and family allowances of all Estonians grow, only then can we afford a Nordic level of education, security and better medical care. The budget for next year is planned at EUR 6.11 billion, with a cost of EUR 6.57 billion. Compared to 2011, costs increase by 11%, i.e. EUR 652.7 million. The budget is based on a deficit of 2.1% of GDP, which can be explained mainly by two components. The impact on the government budget balance of investment in money from the sale of the quota will be 1,5% of GDP as a whole next year. Next year we will also fully restore the state contributions to the second pillar of the pension. In budgetary engineering, this has been described as expenditure, although the content of the second pillar is saving for the future. Estonia's debt-to-GDP ratio is likely to remain the lowest in the European Union next year, at 5.8% of gross domestic product. The public budget deficit and financing operations are planned to be financed from reserves. The estimated tax burden next year, despite an increase of 5% in alcohol duty and 10% in tobacco excise duty, will remain at the same level as this year, i.e. 32.4%. The country will continue to revitalise the economy by increasing the volume of investment, which will also lead to significant employment growth. Compared to last year, public investment will increase by 28% to EUR 1.25 billion. The majority of the increase is made up of funds received from the sale of the emission quota. The share of public investment in all investments will increase to 32%, representing 7.3% of GDP. The largest investment volumes are planned in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture and in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Environment. The largest part of the investments, i.e. approximately 71 million euros, will go for the repair of state roads. The biggest road objects are Aruvalla-Kose road section with 26.4 million euros and Pärnu bypass construction with 17.3 million euros. The cost of road construction, traffic management, repair and maintenance will increase by EUR 40.5 million to more than EUR 300 million. The state will also continue to build light traffic routes, a total of 71.5 kilometres of light traffic will be completed. And although the maintenance of municipal roads is the responsibility of the municipalities themselves, the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the coming year is set at 17.8 million euros, which is more than 5 million euros more than this year. Regionally, it is important for the smaller islands to acquire new vessels. In order to contribute to the creation and implementation of new knowledge, the state will contribute some 163 million euros, or 1% of GDP, to R &amp; D expenditure. I would also like to call on the private sector to contribute more to R &amp; D. The practice of the rest of the world confirms that it pays off products with higher value added, and services are more competitive, and for businesses it means higher revenues, greater breakthrough capacity in export markets. The country as a whole, however, is moving towards an economic model based on the high added value inherent in the Nordic countries. Education and the economy continue to be the priorities of the government. The budget is aimed at increasing economic stability. Economic costs are increasing by 133 million euros, or 15%. Support for agriculture, rural development and fisheries development will increase by EUR 47 million, to EUR 311 million. Under the new generation measure for the deployment of the electronic communications network, EUR 11 million will support the establishment of the basic internet network, which will provide high-speed internet access for more than 40000 inhabitants of Estonian rural areas. Recently, the OECD stated in its report: "Education is generally a good insurance against unemployment and, in particular, for Estonia to remain in work in difficult economic times. ' And even though Estonia is at the forefront of the European countries as a contributor to education, we decided to increase the spending on education by 62 million euros, or 9%. To a large extent, this means quota selling tools that renovate more than half a hundred school buildings and student homes. The public training order for higher education will grow to 103.2 million euros. The plan is also to finance the launch of the IT Academy, which is a programme of enterprises in the Estonian state, universities and the information and communication technology sector to ensure the necessary labour resources for the sector and to provide a competitive level of ICT education. The largest share of public budget expenditure, i.e. one third, is expenditure on social protection, but nevertheless they increase by EUR 190 million, or 10%. Most importantly, I highlight the government's decision to raise pensions by 4.4% from the coming year. Within the Kasina budget, this is not limited. In order to pay pensions, the country will channel 72 million more euros in the coming year, totalling over 1.3 billion euros. Both older and younger people are affected by the health insurance component of the Ministry of Social Affairs' budget, which represents EUR 770 million and provides an opportunity to restore health care prices in health insurance at pre-crisis levels. The state plans to renovate a number of social objects, the largest of which are the nursing homes of Võisik, Erastvere and Sõmera. In addition, funds will be allocated to the development of the hospital network, including Viljandi and Pärnu hospitals. The total increase in social benefits is around 9.4 million euros. EUR 2.5 million will be allocated to families with many children and other target groups to improve housing conditions. Despite the reduction of the unemployed, the country contributes to the employment of the unemployed through the unemployment fund in the same amount as last year. In particular, the aim is to reduce long-term unemployment and increase participation in lifelong learning. In internal security, the state contributes to reducing accident deaths through prevention. To this end, the budget provides for 62% more money than in 2011. In the area of justice, legal proceedings will become faster next year and the protection of the rights of individuals will be improved. We will expand the opportunities for less-insured people to receive free legal advice. The Ministry of Justice has planned three times as much as before for this purpose. Although we are already at the top of Europe according to the competitiveness ranking in terms of efficiency of the government, this situation can be further improved by reforming the public service with the aim of making the public service more dynamic and modern. This is one of the most important issues that the government and Parliament need to resolve. In order to better preserve and save the environment, we are channelling EUR 400 million, i.e. a contribution to the green economy, i.e. jobs, resulting in a reduction in pollution, increasing the sustainable use of energy and resources. One of the goals that is binding and far-reaching in many areas is to make our entire economy greener, i.e. less energy and resource-efficient and less polluting. This is why we invest, among other things, in modern water systems, more environmentally friendly transport, decent boiler houses and hot pipes, combined heat and energy production, wind energy and more energy efficient buildings. The cultural budget is growing by 11% according to COFOG. The 2012 budget makes a significant change in direction in the substantive activities of the Cultural Endowment of Estonia. So far, Sirp and Venice biennial, partly funded by cultural capital, will be fully financed from the state budget. This means that cultural capital will have more resources to fund cultural projects. In the field of the Ministry of Culture, there is also an increase of EUR 100000 in support of the program for the renovation of sacred buildings. Within this framework, the restoration of the Pöide Church will be initiated, which will rescue one of the oldest sacral buildings in Estonia. The extensive renovation works will also continue in the churches of Kuressaare Laurentsius and Tartu Paulius. The priority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to extend the representation and protection of the interests of our citizens and businesses in other countries. After all, this year has clearly proved the importance of a capable foreign representation for the country and its citizens. Strengthening and expanding the Estonian network of foreign representations continues. The state budget values stability not only in economic terms but also in terms of security. For the first time, we are planning to bring defence costs to our NATO partners' promised target of 2% of gross domestic product, which will strengthen primary independent defence capabilities and ensure a stable development of national defence. It is not merely fulfilling the promise; it is necessary for us, Estonia, to strengthen our defence capabilities. Honourable Riigikogu! In my opinion, the government has made optimal choices that take account of the circumstances. The budget presented to you is a responsible budget that will survive even if the risk scenario of the Ministry of Finance materialises. Conservative fiscal policy is not just a word for the Union of Fatherland and Res Publica and the Reform Party, it is a promise. My request to you too, good opposition ambassadors: consider the strict principles of budgetary policy, as you all have for the last two decades, also sacred to the budgetary procedure, has been made by all political parties represented in the Riigikogu. A major challenge is to avoid spending what I would like to do, but for which there is no money. Estonia's finances are one of the best-performing finances in Europe. It's a value to hold! The proposed budget will keep public finances in order. I call on you to deal constructively with the budget and to vote in favour of the proposed draft. Thank you and your strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U82	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will open negotiations with the delegates of the political groups. First of all, I would like to call a chair as a representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Mr Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U83	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! A moment ago, the Riigikogu was transferred to the state budget for the coming year. And while it is usually the most important draft of the autumn session, in the context of EFSF, the state budget has remained ungrateful in the background and will probably remain there. All the attention has turned to the problems of other countries, as if we had no concerns of our own to deal with. Unfortunately, the concerns of the Estonian people have increased in the years of the cut, and the state budget for next year will not offer solutions that work on their concerns. We have heard that the budget for the coming year is estimated at EUR 6.2 billion. Significant tax revenues will be taken into account. Income tax on natural persons should increase, social tax should also increase and VAT should also increase. They should come from wage increases and domestic consumption growth. Listening to the government's complaints about the deterioration of the growth prospects of the world economy and, on the other hand, to the procedure of the Riigikogu, a local budget full of optimism, there is inevitably doubt as to whether tax revenue planning has real life taken into account or whether we have been given a bluff budget today. Of course, the revenue from the budget will also be increased by dividends from state-owned companies. In 2012, the State's dividend revenue is projected to increase by EUR 13.9 million. The biggest dividend income is once again expected from Eesti Energia. It is therefore no wonder that the company does not have the money to invest, and as a result of the smaller storm winds, Estonia is part of the darkness and the activity is being financed by loans. One of the main good news is that we are being presented with an increase of 4.4% in pensions and the restoration of state contributions to the mandatory funded pension fund. But let's think about it. If the price increases in recent years have been significantly faster than now the first increase in pensions over the years, is there anything to boast about? And there is nothing extraordinary about the restoration of pension contributions, it should be normal, not extraordinary, for the government to keep its promises. However, we are still in a situation where Estonian pensions are ridiculously low. At the current inflation rate, pensions should be increased significantly to ensure that our parents and grandparents have a decent life. And once again: if the government promised to restore the state's payments to the mandatory funded pension fund in 2013, then the government will no doubt have to honour its promise. It is important to see people behind the numbers in the state budget. We are not discussing the 2012 budget because the Riigikogu enjoys adding or separating figures, but our aim is to achieve a result that makes life in Estonia better. Internal security, education and public services are important to people. Unfortunately, there is no progress in this regard. There's no budget for a raise in the wages of the saviors and police officers. In September, we usually think more about education, but there will be an 8% pay cut for our teachers. It is therefore a matter of priorities and obviously these areas are still not a government priority. This short-sighted attitude can become dangerous for Estonia. It is better and cheaper to keep specialists at home in Estonia than to start these years later expensive 'Talents home! ' with a campaign to bring home. I also want to talk about the fact that many long years of crisis have led Estonia to a situation where many children have only a warm meal for school lunch a day. Price increases have cut school lunch, reduced its quality and reduced its availability. The Centre Party already proposed, as the first draft of the Riigikogu procedure, that the cost of a school lunch portion from the new year would be one euro and that all schoolchildren would receive this lunch. This bill has been forgotten in committee drawers, but now it is time to bring it out so that next school year the children can get food. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U84	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U85	In addition to the cuts made at the expense of people, next year's budget will once again perpetuate the cutbacks of local governments. In 2009, when the proportion of municipal income tax was reduced from 11,93% to 11,4%, this was referred to as a temporary measure. However, the final protocol to the negotiations of the delegations of the Government Commission and the Municipalities Assembly will probably not be signed this year for the 2012 state budget, as the share of income tax received by local governments will not be restored to 11,93%, nor will it guarantee the necessary levelling-out fund. When we reunited here in the fall in the Riigikogu, one of the first things we had was the opportunity to hear the President's speech. The difficult situation of local governments was also brought to the attention of the re-elected President in this Riigikogu hall. I would like to remind you of his speech on 12 September 2011, where he said that the fact that, on a proposal from the Government and with the approval of Parliament, the revenue of cities and municipalities has been consistently reduced is a fact. Now that we hear the news that Estonian finances are in such good order, we should also think that Estonia is not only the Mount of Toompea, but also the cities and municipalities of Estonia, and that their cuts should not be caused for years either. Unfortunately, nothing has improved significantly in a year, and therefore I have to quote here last year's budget speech. Then we said that we could not accept the document that was made at the expense of leaving our own citizens and local authorities in difficulty. A document designed solely to serve praise in the international arena cannot be praised. A document cannot be commended, which means that many people today have failed their dreams of Estonia. Estonian citizens deserve better, and the Estonian state deserves not to have a bluff budget in 2012. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U86	Thank you, Mr Kadri Simson. I would now like to ask Mr Sven Mikser, the representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Colleagues! Listening to the Prime Minister's presentation, I carefully searched for an adjective to summarise it with, and it came to my mind that a word that was somewhat literary and not widely used in common language was "greasing." It seemed that next year Estonia will not only be in order, but will be ready. As a person concerned about the future, I wondered what we will do here next year. The reality, of course, is not so beautiful. Self-praising and constantly setting an example for others is good, as long as it serves the purpose of so-called positive advertising and until we can convince others that we are so good. It gets dangerous when we start believing what we're saying too much. There are certainly many shortcomings in the budget that has been passed on to us. One of these principles goes back to the resolution of the Supreme Court in 2010, in which the government was given a clear signal that the responsibilities of local governments and the enforcement of these obligations by financial means are not clear in Estonia and the government should do something here. What has the government done? Basically nothing. The President also asked how long it could continue to do so when he brought this session in. And I would like to say that it has become somewhat symptomatic that, in the debate on almost every issue relating to finance in this Chamber, there is a question of constitutional compliance. I'm sure it shouldn't be like this. Now, the budget is realistic. The Prime Minister told us that this budget has been made responsibly and with sufficient resources to withstand the application of risk scenarios. It was only this morning that we could hear that Eesti Pank did not feel the same way. We know that there are very stormy processes in the global economy, not to mention the European economy, and that economic forecasts are now changing at almost the same rate as forecasts. The government has, as usual, chosen the most positive scenario offered by the Ministry of Finance. Of course, no one can have anything against its fulfillment. But I would very much like to hope that the Prime Minister's promise will be fulfilled that we will not have to start chewing this budget again, like crocodiles, either during the budgetary procedure or after it has been adopted in this Chamber. Our Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance very much love to talk about the success story in finance and the importance of keeping the budget balanced. Of course, these are important questions. But no country with normal finances can afford such a success story as Estonia does, as stability has been maintained through unemployment insurance for several years. In a country with normal finances, unemployment benefits exceed the cost of unemployment in circumstances where unemployment is low and the cost of income at a time when unemployment is high. If the income from unemployment insurance in Estonia at 12.7% in 2011 and the next year at 11.1% in 2011 exceeds the costs so that the state can improve the overall budget balance with these revenues, it is certainly not normal. It is money that should be spent at such a difficult moment to keep our workforce active here in Estonia. We, on the other hand, are sending our able-to-work people out of here. There is still more sneaking and bragging in the budget. The government points out positively that social security reserves are intended to be nationalised. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U88	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U89	At the same time, it is a matter of expressing gratitude to the government by the current officials of the property subject to nationalisation. Somehow I haven't heard that thank you. The size of the pension is also increased by 4.4%, while the index, wage growth and inflation would allow the pension to be raised by 5.4%. The Social Democratic Party Group will certainly put human, not macro-economic statistics, at the forefront of the budget process. As the previous speaker has already mentioned, it is extremely difficult to speak about the value of teachers, cultural workers, rescuers, ambulances and internal security staff in this budget. For a long time, the Social Democrats have also drawn attention to the need to raise today's ridiculous EUR 19 universal child support. It is certainly possible, at least in part, to alleviate these problems by changing the priorities within the budget. But I would like to say that, without substantially changing the country's revenue policy, it is not possible to achieve a breakthrough here. Otherwise, it'll go back to the way it was. The government beats the drum to reduce people's household costs while increasing the price of electricity and indoor heating. The government boasts that it will offer free higher education to everyone, while the availability of free higher education and the choices of young people will actually be restricted. The Prime Minister told us here that we would be responsible for the budgetary process and that the opposition would not incur costs that the country would not be able to cover during the budgetary procedure. We understand, of course, that it is precisely the choices that the government has put before us when it comes to putting together the budget that the country can afford, and changing these preferences is not feasible for the country. I don't think so. I very much hope that Parliament will be able to act as a true parliament in the budgetary process, to make the necessary changes here, which will enable us to say that, although the state will not be ready or in order in the coming year, we have done our best to stand up for the well-being of the people of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U90	I would like to ask for a speech chair as a representative of the Group of the Urmas Reinsalu Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U91	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Mr Prime Minister! Have a good team of ambassadors! From the perspective of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, it is not a matter of boasting by the Prime Minister, but of bringing out the figures contained in the draft state budget completely without passion. These figures have made very fundamental choices. Yes, the first policy option is to respect the principles of prudent fiscal policy and to maintain the fiscal balance in the direction of the coalition agreement by 2013. However, I do not want to agree at all that people and their needs and the principles of prudent fiscal policy have been opposed as an objective. What contrasting these values can lead to, we also see in a number of sad cases in southern Europe. The second fundamental circle of problems relating to human consideration and the objectives set out in this budget, with which the IRL Group undoubtedly agrees, and which was also supported by our government coalition, is continuing to address the employment situation. There are also two fundamental choices here: firstly, the increase in investment in this draft budget and, secondly, the retention of funding for active labour market measures in a situation where absolute rates of recorded unemployment have decreased nearly twice over the last year. This is an important principle that, although registered unemployment is decreasing, the implementation of active labour market measures to reduce long-term unemployment is certainly one of the serious issues and is also subject to Parliament's supervision. These claims cannot be accepted at all, as if the reform of free higher education reduced students' access to education. This is certainly one of the most important reform issues that Parliament will have to address in the next session, but the reform aims to the contrary: regardless of the family's financial income, access to higher education must improve and not decrease. There was also a reference to the fact that the increase in housing costs is a problem in Estonia and, in the case of regulated prices, the state must ensure independent supervision. I would remind you that it is not the government that sets prices in Estonia, but regulated prices are subject to the supervision of an independent regulator. The government has used its options here and has implemented the KredEx programme for renovation of apartment buildings. It is reasonable that the next step has also been taken and it has been decided to extend this programme to the renovation of private homes. In general, it is certainly right that the trends in the world economy must be taken into account both by the government and by Parliament when handling this budget. It is therefore appropriate that, despite this year's quarterly growth figures, the government has taken a much more conservative approach to economic growth next year, and this should be a prerequisite that we do not have to go into negative budgets. I hope that this budget will be dealt with in a constructive environment, with arguments that are objective and not misleading. Amendments to the budget should be guided, as the Prime Minister said, by the principle that the funds we have can be shared and that money comes from working, not from the Treasury, but from tax and real employment in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U92	Thank you very much, Mr Reinsalu. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to speak once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U93	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Once again, I call on the honourable Riigikogu to process the budget very constructively and to keep Estonian finances in good order. For me, honesty is credo, everyone has to be honest. In particular, politicians, especially politicians, who have been elected to the Riigikogu, must be honest. I have just heard the astonishing statement that this state budget is going to nationalise or nationalise our reserves of social security funds. That's a lie! The Government of the Republic does not have such a plan, and if such a crazy plan is to occur in any part of the Government of the Republic, I am very sure that the Riigikogu will not allow it. Sven Mikser said the Social Democratic Party values the person. I am convinced that the Reform Party, the Centre Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance also value a person, and I am convinced that the value of people is also that they are not being lied to. You always have to tell the truth. But if Sven Mikser says it's dangerous if we believe what we're saying, then it's not about telling the truth. For me, these statements have a much broader meaning than the statements on the state budget for next year. The country's income policy needs to be changed, said Sven Mikser. Certainly, this revenue policy is constantly changing, but if the aim is to raise taxes, then it should be honest to the voters that, once again, there is a desire to introduce car tax, real estate tax and allow for some kind of expenditure on its account. If, on the one hand, excessive optimism is being criticised for the draft budget, it is said that the most optimistic forecast by the Ministry of Finance has been taken, which again is not true, because the base scenario has been taken on the basis, not the most optimistic and most pessimistic, but at the same time cannot require a substantial increase in expenditure. These two things don't fit together. The state budget cannot be of the nature of Baron Münchhausen; expenditure must correspond to revenue. If they are not in line at any point in time, revenue should normally exceed costs, but in difficult times, the same revenues that have been collected in good times must be spent to cover increased costs in bad times. I am convinced that this budget is realistic, that it takes into account our current options and that it also takes into account future scenarios, which are far less optimistic. I dare say it's also verifiable by numbers. If the negative scenario forecast by the Ministry of Finance, according to which the economy will grow by only 1%, the deficit will be 2.9%, not 2.1%, and this means that Estonia will still fit into the framework set by the Stability and Growth Pact. I call on you all to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U94	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U95	Let's get on with our work. Messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: 1) the Government of the Republic. a draft law on strategic goods, initiated on 26 September, commission of state defence committee; 2) in the Estonian Central Party faction. a draft law amending § 4 of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 26 September, commission of the Finance Committee; 3) Social Democratic Party faction. a draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act and the State Family Benefits Act, initiated on 27 September, Committee on Social Affairs. In accordance with § 49 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Board of the Riigikogu decided to convene additional meetings of the Riigikogu on 29 September as follows: 1) at 17 p.m. on 29 September, for the second reading of the draft Act amending § 402 of the State Budget Act (95 SE), initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, in the event that 95 SE's first reading is completed on 28 September; 2) With effect from 29 September, one hour after the end of the first additional session, the draft Act on Supplementing State Budget Act § 402 of the Social Democratic Party Group (95 SE) for the third reading, if the second reading of the Bill on Supplementing State Budget Act § 402 of the Social Democratic Party Group (95 SE) for the first additional session is completed, and the Riigikogu's decision to ensure compliance with the obligations arising from the Framework Agreement on Financial Stability Fund for Europe and its amendments (90 OE) for the continuation of the second reading by the Government of the Republic. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu decided to set the deadline for the draft decision of the Riigikogu to make the documents on the basis of the second reading available to the members of the Riigikogu to the members of the Riigikogu. 1 p.m. on 28 September 2008. Yesterday, an Estonian-Belgium parliamentary group was formed. Please, presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one item on the agenda: today's ninth item on the agenda, the draft law on plant propagation and the amendment of the law on plant variety rights at first reading 93 will be presented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, on behalf of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U96	Yesterday, due to the end of the plenary session, the debate on the draft law supplementing § 402 of the State Budget Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, was unfinished during the presentation by the leading committee. Please report to the speech chair... I'm sorry, I'd like to ask you to speak to Eiki Nestor first. Any questions for my colleague, Eiki Nestor? No, it's not. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Sõerdi of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law supplementing § 402 of the State Budget Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group at its meeting on 26 September. The initiator presented in detail the objectives of the draft and the need for the draft. In short, according to the initiators, the task of the draft could be to enable Estonia, together with other euro area Member States, to participate in measures that provide financial support to the Member States with a view to maintaining the financial stability of the euro area. Since a guarantee under the current State Budget Act would only be possible if the State were to own the majority or only part of the company, it would be necessary, in the opinion of the initiators, to supplement the law in such a way as to create the possibility of granting a State guarantee to the company in which the State holds the majority shares, provided that those majority shares belong to the Member States of the European Union. I forgot to say that the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi also attended the meeting of the Commission and there were specialists from the Ministry of Finance. The question was whether § 40 of the State Budget Act should be amended at all, or § 37 of the State Budget Act, which, as you know, was adopted in the Riigikogu at a time when there was a financial crisis and provided for the possibility of using the resources of the Stabilisation Reserve to stabilise the financial system, because it is a financial stability situation in general. The initiators of the draft act thought that financial stability was undoubtedly an important matter, but maybe § 37 is not quite suitable for this regulation, which is the purpose of the initiators' draft. The Commission also noted that since there is a draft decision of the Riigikogu concerning the accession to the European Financial Stability Fund, which is an urgent matter, and since the draft of the initiators provides the basis for this decision in the State Budget Act, the draft 95 could be dealt with quickly, operationally and at a parallel pace to the bill of 90, or rather at an early pace. The Minister of Finance also spoke about urgency in the committee, as he said yesterday in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, at the first reading of the 90 draft decision, that it is necessary to react quickly to the situation that has developed. At the same time, we must admit that the laws in force, including the basic law on the state budget, are not intended for situations such as those that have now developed. For the initiators of the draft act, the question was whether they agree in principle that this is a broader issue of financial stability. Since the content of § 37 of the current Act is more related to financial stability, this draft could be more a matter of financial stability. This was in principle accepted by the initiators. Members of the Commission asked what would happen if we were a week or two late and missed the pace of the European Union. The Minister explained the situation in other national parliaments. The Minister pointed out the problems that had arisen in Slovakia and Slovenia. The Member of the Commission had a question about whether, if the whole guaranteed package were to increase, the law would have to be amended again and how the future procedure would look. The minister replied briefly that we were talking about granting a guarantee of EUR 2 billion, with the actual guarantee for the coming years being more of a few hundred million euros, divided between three countries. I must also state the position of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance here. Their opinion was that the establishment of this basis in the State Budget Act does not change the matter, the Riigikogu has competence under the Constitution and this competence cannot be increased. They doubt whether there is any need to amend the state budget law. This was a brief summary of the Commission's debate. The Commission also made decisions. 10 members of the Commission supported the proposal to close the first reading, 1 against. The Commission decided to set the deadline for submitting amendments today at 12 noon, but since the first reading did not stop yesterday and the reading moved forward to today, the Commission decided yesterday to set the deadline for submitting amendments one hour after the end of today's sitting. The Commission proposed to put the draft ahead of the agenda, which was done yesterday. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U98	Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. You have questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U99	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft is a satellite that goes with the bill 90. Without this, it is not conceivable that the provision of guarantees in draft 90 could be legally resolved. However, if, last week in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, my colleague Nestor had not started talking about this issue, it is quite likely that no one would have thought that there would be a conflict with the law. The question here: how can you justify the low level of the draft coming from the Ministry of Finance that the draft does not respect other laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U100	Thank you for your question. We in this Chamber of the Riigikogu are still dealing with Bills 95 and 90 separately. Right now we're talking about bill 95. I don't quite agree that the initiator of the bill came up with this. The bill had already been put into procedure. I would like to congratulate the initiators of the draft for their important contribution to the European Union's decision-making process. As we know, on Sunday, a serious and comprehensive letter was received from the Chancellor of Justice concerning draft 90. You said there was a connection between these drafts. In fact, the Commission was quite unanimous that the draft 95, as proposed by the initiators, did not solve many of these problems with regard to the draft 90, which the Chancellor of Justice had pointed out. In my opinion, this is a rather complex matter of constitutional law. I call on the Riigikogu to seriously address the issues raised by the Chancellor of Justice and to ensure that both the draft decision 90 and the draft decision currently being dealt with are on the correct legal basis, so that no matter what instance or institution would find a reason to challenge these drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U101	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot accept that they are not linked and that they cannot be spoken of now. Of course, you have the right to refuse to comment or answer. But now the second question. Let's look at bill 95. It's about companies. Of course, this is not an ordinary company, everyone understands it, but let's just say that in a normal company, in a public limited company, those who take decisions are often responsible for decisions that have been made incorrectly with their property and money. Now, of course, the state will take responsibility. Just in case, will there be any liability for those who make this decision, just material, financial responsibility? I am thinking precisely of the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U103	Thank you. This question could, of course, have been put to the initiator of the draft. As regards the accession to the EFSF on the basis of draft decision 90, the fund will indeed be set up, as you said, as a private limited company and private limited company, with shareholders responsible for the company's decisions, which are the 17 euro area Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U104	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U105	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is clear that bill 95 is a supporting law to draft Riigikogu decision 90, without which this decision could not be adopted, i.e. to decide to participate in the EFSF. Participation in the EFSF means participation in a financial structure providing guarantees for euro area countries. This draft law, however, talks about the granting of State guarantees to a company whose shares belong to the Member States of the European Union. Aren't we making some kind of mistake here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U106	Thank you. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U107	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! I would like to begin by thanking the Social Democrats who have come up with this bill and not let it happen that a decision of the Riigikogu is taken on almost nothing, even though the law does not allow such a decision to be taken. My question concerns why the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself did not think of this in order to amend the basic law on the state budget before coming before Parliament with this draft decision. I mean, a draft decision of 90.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U109	Thank you for your question. The Committee on Finance considered it justified to support the draft and to proceed with it. I think that if we proceed smoothly with this draft, we will also achieve the objective that we need to achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U110	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U111	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Is the position of the Government of the Republic regarding bill 95 known to the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U112	Thank you. I think the Minister of Finance is competent to represent the government on this matter. In the Committee on Finance, as I said, the Minister for Finance participated and also expressed his views, which I have passed on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U113	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sõerd. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for tabling 95 amendments one hour after the end of today's Wednesday sitting. First reading of bill 95 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U114	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkuri, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U115	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is an honor and pleasure to introduce to you draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance 86. The draft complements the Psychiatric Assistance Act with a new chapter laying down restrictions on the person's ownership of inpatient psychiatric treatment, as well as complementing the procedures and conditions for the application of restraint measures. Currently, the law does not provide for a list of substances and articles authorised or not authorised in a psychiatric hospital or a psychiatric department and does not give the health care provider the right to withdraw substances and articles. In order to address the situation, it is necessary to establish a legal basis for restricting the ownership of persons present with psychiatric assistance providers by establishing a list of authorised or prohibited cases with psychiatric assistance providers and a basis for restricting the ownership of substances and articles by a medical decision. The bill clearly sets out the substances and articles that a person undergoing psychiatric treatment must not have in the hospital, such as alcoholic beverages, narcotics and psychotropic substances, weapons and explosives. In addition, a list of substances and articles the possession of which may be prohibited by a decision of the health care provider on the grounds of their danger to the person himself or to others or which pose a serious threat to the privacy of persons undergoing treatment: substances containing alcohol, medicines, cutlery, photographic apparatus and cameras has been established. Activities to limit ownership must be documented by the healthcare provider in the person's history of disease. The draft also complements the procedures and conditions for the implementation of containment measures. The current law provides for the fixing and separation of containment measures. This draft has supplemented the list of containment measures with less restrictive containment measures that have proved necessary in practice. According to the draft, containment measures are physical containment, drug control, mechanical containment and separation. Control measures shall be taken against a person with mental disorder who is involuntary treatment or psychiatric coercive treatment if the person's mental disorder presents a direct threat to self- harm or violence against other persons and other means of eliminating the threat, including conversation, persuasion and oral relaxation, have not proved sufficient. It is important that the choice of restraint measures should be based on the principle of minimum exercise of force on the patient and that the restraint measure should be used in a manner which does not impair the patient's dignity or endanger his or her mental and physical health. The draft imposes an obligation on the Health Board to monitor the provision of psychiatric treatment. The Agency shall be empowered to verify the implementation of containment measures in psychiatric hospitals and to document their implementation. In summary, this draft will bring to the level of the law an important fundamental right of persons undergoing psychiatric treatment, i.e. the restriction of property rights, and will complement the implementation of containment measures, including supervision. I certainly support the decision of the Social Affairs Committee to conclude the first reading of the draft and adopt it as a law in the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U116	Thank you very much, Minister. You have at least one question. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U117	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! It is certainly a necessary bill, but unfortunately it regulates certain matters in a psychiatric hospital alone. It is a question of restraint. A patient may also experience acute psychosis in a general hospital, a family doctor, a nursing home, but this law does not regulate the application of restraint measures. How, then, could such a thing happen at a family doctor's appointment or with any health care provider, either under the Psychiatric Law, the Law on Law Enforcement, or under the Police and Border Guard Act? How could this really happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U118	Thank you for your question. A good member of the Riigikogu, after fulfilling his medical duties, certainly knows that the law on psychiatric assistance provides for the use of restraint measures against persons undergoing psychiatric treatment. As far as welfare institutions are concerned, the regulation of institutions is set out in the Social Welfare Act. Of course, all welfare institutions must take into account that when we talk about so-called voluntary care, i.e. the person in the nursing home, the person is also, of course, responsible for public order on the basis of his or her own free will and of his or her own free will, as provided for in the law of law and order. In this sense, these opportunities are and are included in both the Social Welfare Act and other laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U119	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U120	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! However, I did not understand one thing in your answer. I have a detailed question: is there any kind of legal regulation that could, if necessary, be provided by other health care providers, and not only by a psychiatric hospital? I'm thinking of a general hospital or a family doctor's appointment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U121	Thank you. If we look at the 'time dimension', we are in the process of regulating containment measures or providing assistance at all with regard to the rehabilitation of minors. There we also took the same view that, in the case of minors' rehabilitation, we can talk about health care-related restraint measures, including the possibilities to bring a person to justice. As far as we know, the Chancellor of Justice, with whom this bill was born, has not complained that there are problems with the use of restraint measures in general hospitals or institutions. So we can assume that so far we've done well. As far as possible containment measures in general hospitals are concerned, we talked in the Commission, a good questioner remembers, for example, the drip infusion. A person comes to a general hospital voluntarily and agrees that if his/her medical condition requires, for example, an infusion, doctors have every logical right to fix hands. I don't think we should have a problem with that. If a good member of the Riigikogu feels that there are still problems somewhere, I am happy to expect a concrete example to review whether this case is covered by the law or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U122	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. No further questions. Please report to Heljo Pikhof, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U123	Madam President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is my honour and pleasure to give an overview of the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting. a on September 20th. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, his advisor Anni Tooma, Head of Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Heli Paluste and Specialist of Health Department Ülle Jordan participated in the meeting. The social minister Hanno Pevkur made an overview of the draft, the need to amend the law on psychiatric assistance and the content of the draft. During the discussion, the members of the Commission asked questions to which the Minister of Social Affairs and the Ministry's officials replied. The questions concerned the role of the Chancellor of Justice and the Chancellor of Justice in the initiation and preparation of the draft. The need to amend the law on psychiatric assistance and to restrict the ownership of patients in psychiatric clinics and to regulate the procedures for applying containment measures at the level of the law has been pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice in his letter to the Minister for Social Affairs and is also evident in the inspection reports carried out as a result of the visits. Cooperation has also been carried out in the preparation of the draft. Questions were raised about the current situation in psychiatric institutions. At present, there are differences in practice in the application of containment measures in different health institutions. The procedures for the application of containment measures are usually laid down in the internal rules of the medical institution, while restrictions on ownership are not regulated. The Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to send the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance to the first reading on 27 September 2011 with a proposal to terminate the first reading. The deadline for submitting amendments is ten working days provided for in the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. It was decided to appoint Mr Pikhof as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U124	Thank you very much, colleague. There's a question. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U125	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, About a year and a half ago, there was such a case in Narva that representatives of the Chancellor of Justice came there, went to a social centre where the homeless are staying, and remarked that the person who comes to stay there should not be taken away from a bottle of vodka or a knife, because it is his personal property and if the person is deprived of it, even in such a place, it is a violation of his rights. Paragraph 92 (6) states: "The health care provider is obliged to keep an item taken from the person... ' At the end of the paragraph, it is stated that the substance or article must be returned to the person without delay. Does this involve such things as alcohol or a cold weapon?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U126	If you're talking about a bottle of alcohol, they'll naturally take it away by the time they're in the hospital, but then they'll have to give it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U127	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Pikhof. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to invite Mr Viktor Vassilyev to speak as a representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U128	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a necessary draft. This is a good bill, and I am in favour of adopting this bill as a law, but I still want to draw the attention of all of you to certain circumstances. In fact, the initiation of this draft was triggered by the fact that the Chancellor of Justice, who looks at everything that is happening in Estonia, happened to the psychiatric hospital and saw a terrible thing, the way the madmen are tied to the beds. If a person is dangerous to himself and to the surrounding ones because of illness, his fixation or restraint, whatever we call it, has been used for hundreds of years, if not thousands of years. It's rational and necessary. However, both the Association of Doctors and the Association of Hospitals and other organisations have proposed a number of improvements to this law, including pointing out that the law regulates only one small part of the health care system or services provided. In fact, any patient who suffers from a somatic or physical illness can easily enter a psychological condition where he or she may develop an acute mental disorder. If a person has a physical illness, it certainly affects his psyche. As a result, there are situations (all medical practitioners know this) where a person needs to be fixed in a general hospital, county hospital or wherever medical practitioners are dealing with patients. But the law doesn't regulate it. Why? Because the bill was initiated by a person who went to a psychiatric hospital. He touched the elephant's limp, but if you touch the tail, it looks like the elephant looks quite different. The elephant should have been touched wherever the hand can reach. When I was in college, we were taught how to fix people in a way that makes it safe and safe for people. This means that the inventory must meet the requirements and staff must have completed the training. It's a pretty delicate thing to fix a human being. Mr Minister said that if, for example, a blood vessel is driped into something, there is no problem because the person has signed up for treatment and we will tie his hand to it. It's not as simple as a 90-year-old person who's quite insane and doesn't know about the earth or the weather. When he is given a drip, his hands are tied to the bed with a bandage and the other hand is tied to the bed because he doesn't understand what's happening to him, he can rip it off, whatever he wants, he can hurt himself, and the medics, with purely human motives, limit his movement. Now from the nursing home. Do you know that there are people in nursing homes who have spent their life in prisons with little breaks? If he's been assigned five years, then three years he's gonna sit down, get out for a week, and then he's gonna go back home again, maybe to jail. When he's 70 years old, he'll be thrown out of jail, but where will he be sent, old and sick? To the nursing home! It's where these guys set their own rules, they live by their own rules. But these rules also include the fact that this guy sometimes wants to get some rest. I've seen a situation where a gentleman comes to the staff and says it's time for some rest, please close me down a bit. In the old days, the room looked like a brig, and there were bunks. The guy calmed down a little bit, came out and said thanks for saying he's okay now. You see, these things need to be legalized, these things need to be seen in a complex way. Let's not touch the elephant just from the trunk, there's enough of us to reach everywhere! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U129	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. More, it seems to me, there are no requests. I will set the deadline for the submission of 86 amendments on 12 October at 18. The first reading of Bill 86 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U130	The first reading of the draft law amending § 2 of the Holidays and Holidays Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. I ask Priit Toobali, the initiator's representative, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U131	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 May this year, the Estonian Centre Party Group passed the draft Act amending § 2 of the Holidays and Holidays Act. The draft complements § 2 of the Holidays and Holidays Act, which adds the second holiday of Easter to the public holidays. The purpose of the draft is to make Easter the second holiday in Estonia a public holiday and a holiday day. The current Holidays and Holidays Act provides for 11 public holidays. These include the New Year, the Great Friday, Easter's first holiday, the Spring Day, the First Day of Pentecost, the Day of Victory, the Midsummer Day, the Day of Independence, Christmas Eve, and Christmas Day and Christmas Day. Estonian public holidays mostly coincide with public holidays established by other European Union Member States. One difference is the second Easter holiday, which is a public holiday and a holiday in most Member States of the European Union. The exception is Estonia, Malta and Portugal, where Easter holidays are the usual working day. If the bill came into force, the number of public holidays in Estonia would increase to 12. Easter is part of the so-called "movement celebrations." Their beginnings are calculated by the lunar phases. They begin their first full month on Sunday after the spring solstice and may thus be between 23 March and 26 April. The addition of the second Easter to public holidays is understandable, since in countries with Christian traditions, it is Easter, a great Friday, a quiet Saturday, and the first and second Easter, with great emotional content, a festive time, and family, relatives, and loved ones. Undoubtedly, Easter 2 is a religious festival. Easter is the most important thing for Christians in the church year. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, we do not have a state church, but traditional religious holidays are nevertheless celebrated. I mentioned that there are currently 11 public holidays in Estonia. It is noteworthy that seven of the 11 public holidays have religious backgrounds. The Estonian Council of Churches has also given its position on this draft, which brings together eight churches and two associations of congregations with nearly 400000 members. The Council of Churches supports the celebration of Easter as a national holiday. One aspect of the Easter is the Christian resurrection, the resurrection from Christ's death, the second related to the birth of spring, the awakening of nature from winter. These two sides fit well together. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the second Easter holiday will become a public holiday in Estonia, as in most Member States of the European Union. This simplifies the situation of companies which, because of their work, have to communicate daily with parent companies or subsidiaries located in other countries. In the Nordic countries and Latvia and Lithuania, with whom Estonia has the closest economic ties, the second holiday of Easter is a public holiday and a holiday. Also, when the law is adopted, the second Easter holiday in Estonia is a normal working day, but there are no interbank transfers, because the European Central Bank has a day of rest. As a result, the work of many companies on the second holiday of Easter has been suppressed anyway. The draft reduces Estonia's average working week, which was 41.1 hours in 2008, according to a study by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, while the average working week in the European Union was 40.4 hours. The average working week of the EU-15 in 2008 was 39.9 hours. Thus, it is possible to give people an extra holiday in Estonia without making the average working week shorter than the European Union average. In the discussions on the draft, there was a debate in the Steering Committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the impact of adding an additional public holiday and the output for the economy. I trust the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, who stated in his position on the draft: 'Although the impact of an additional public holiday on the entire state budget and the economy is not significant, it is worth considering that the cost of some state budget institutions would increase. For example, there would be a part of the work of the Police and Border Guard Board, who would earn double remuneration for the work. ' I repeat: according to the Minister for Finance, the financial impact on the economy and the state budget is not significant. I would add that several current public holidays are so-called mobile holidays and all public holidays are mobile in the sense that they happen in one year, in the second year, to the weekend, so it would not make sense to issue very specific sums of money on the effect of one public holiday and a holiday. It is, of course, possible to make the necessary calculations between the first and second readings, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also had a debate on which countries of the European Union have a great Friday and the second Easter in parallel with a public holiday and a holiday. There are 13 countries like this. It should be noted here that those countries where the great Friday is not a public holiday and a holiday, but the second holiday of Easter is a public holiday, are 11. Let me remind you that Easter Day is not a public holiday in just three countries: Estonia, Malta and Portugal. Thus, there are far more countries where Easter is a public holiday than those where this is not the case. Why is keeping the holidays important? Why can't we just ignore them or work these days? Of course, it is good to have another day off, but it is important that we also understand the meaning of these holidays and show solidarity with those for whom holidays mean more than a day off from work. Think of all those for whom Easter is of profound religious significance. Holidays are a part of culture, and how beautifully we celebrate our holidays and how we honor our customs shows something about the nature of our people and our culture. Estonian folklore about Easter is rich. Let us take this matter with respect and let us move one more step closer to Europe. Finally, I call on you all to support the draft, and I hope that there will be the same consensus on this issue in this Chamber as in 2005, when the religious holiday, Christmas Eve, the Central Party's proposal, was once again announced as a public holiday and a holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U132	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U133	We are not taking a step towards Europe, but we are now putting it so that there is no time to close the coat. There are still a number of countries where Easter is not celebrated. You didn't call them. These are India, Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan and many other countries where this holiday is not celebrated. That's why I wanted to ask what this second Easter means. Why is it even celebrated?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U134	Thank you, dear questioner. First of all, I would point out that when I listed in my report the countries where the second Easter is celebrated as a public holiday, I meant the 27 countries of the European Union and three of them in Estonia, Malta and Portugal, the second Easter is not a public holiday or, therefore, a holiday. But the question concerned Easter. The second Easter is associated with Christ's resurrection in the Christian world. The message of that day is that Christ has risen, that he has indeed risen. In the words 'the grave is empty', the whole core of the Christian faith lies.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U135	Please, Mr Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U136	Thank you. I too learned that Malta and Portugal are not celebrating this holiday. Thanks for that. We have 11 national holidays. In the committee, did you consider the possibility of replacing this holiday you offered with one of the available holidays and, if so, which one?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U137	Thank you. I am not a Commission waitress, but since I am a member of the committee where this was discussed, I can say that your party partner, Andres Herkel, came up with the idea that perhaps the second holiday of Easter would be changed to a big Friday on the public holiday calendar. So it was a debate, but no decision was taken on it, it was just a subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U138	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U139	Thank you. Dear waitress, Of course, holidays and rest are extremely pleasant, but I would remind you that if we look at regions that are more competitive than Europe, the United States or Asia, their guarantee of success is just working, working more than Europe. I think this is the basis of wealth. But I am going to ask you more specifically: are there any restrictions in the law right now, a ban that does not allow employers to give free days when there are means to do so? Maybe we're invading some kind of playground that doesn't really have a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U140	Thank you. The draft law submitted by the Group of the Estonian Central Party talks about the national introduction of a public holiday into the calendar of public holidays. Whether the law allows or prohibits religious celebrations, the bill does not speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U141	Please, colleague Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U142	Thank you very much. I consider myself a person quite close to the church, and I am already a member of the Council of the Dome Church in several configurations. Having given many lectures on this subject to young people, I know that the first phenomenon of Christianity is so-called redemption, that we have suffered and that our sins have been committed. That is why this phenomenon of great Friday's suffering has been marked by church concerts and all kinds of events. In Finland, too, there was a discussion in the past about whether major celebrations could be allowed on that day. I am asking if you have also had the EELC, who in fact has always stressed the importance of a big Friday. Maybe more should take part in church events on that day; another holiday is such a rudimentary thing where there are no celebrations in the church line.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U143	Thank you. I repeat what I said in my presentation that the Council of Estonian Churches sent its position to the Commission, which brings together eight churches. Their view was that they basically supported the celebration of Easter as a national holiday.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U144	Please, colleague Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U145	Thank you. Dear waitress, Is there any way you can comment or explain the amazing fact in itself that this day is not celebrated in a national way in countries with much stronger Christian traditions than others, in Catholic countries such as Portugal and Malta?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U146	Thank you. I can't explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U147	Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U148	Thank you. I touch the religious side less, I stay on the economic side more. Do you have an example of our immediate neighbors adding a holiday like this for religious or economic reasons? I, for example, know one of the opposite examples. In Sweden, a few years ago, they were very keen to make their flag day or national day the anniversary of which led to the abolition of one of the Pentecostal ones. So it wasn't a holiday, it was a religious holiday that was abolished as a national holiday. Do you know any example where the holidays are simply added?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U149	Thank you. I cannot give a concrete example from other countries. But this is the same debate that was also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Andres Herkel raised the issue of not bringing in one holiday, not increasing the number of holidays from 11 to 12, but some existing celebrations being exchanged for another Easter.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U150	Please, Mr Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U151	Thank you. Good waitress! As you rightly said, it is largely a religious holiday. You also asked the Estonian Council of Churches for an opinion. How did they argue or justify why this religious festival should be a public holiday?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U152	Thank you. If you will allow me, I will read out the letter they referred to the Commission because I have it with me here. This letter is not very long: 'According to the 2000 census, where the answer to the question was voluntary (about 15 years of age and older), 318921 people in the Republic of Estonia admitted themselves to be Christians. The Estonian Council of Churches unites eight churches and two assemblies of congregations, together with nearly 400000 members. Members shall also include those younger than 15 years of age. In addition, other smaller confessions and individual congregations. The Estonian Council of Churches discussed the issue at its regular working meeting and basically supports the celebration of Easter as a national holiday. " In this letter, they do not give reasons, but they make a fundamental point of supporting the celebration of Easter as a national holiday and a day of rest.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U153	Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U154	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am quite benevolent about the procedure for this draft, but since you have mentioned my name twice here, I am now asking if the Centre Party will have a position on this if we do not increase the number of public holidays. If the idea tends to suggest that the second Easter could be a public holiday, what public holiday would you take off on your calendar?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U155	The Centre Party Group has not discussed this issue again, but the Centre Party Group will certainly shape its position between the first and second readings if this draft is left in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U156	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. I would like to ask Peep Aru, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U157	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On the 19th day of this month, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we discussed the draft law submitted by the Central Party Group, which was dealt with very thoroughly by the previous speaker here, both from the perspective of the drafters and from the perspective of the Commission. That makes it easier for me. In addition to hearing the authors of the bill, we had three papers on the table. One of these papers was quoted here; it was read literally. This was the position of the Estonian Council of Churches. The opinion of the Government of the Republic was represented by Kristen Kanarik, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and the position of the Government of the Republic also existed in writing. I will read it out as well: 'The Government of the Republic decided not to support the bill, as there is no analysis of the impact of the legislative amendment. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal does not reveal the possible implications for the domestic economy of shortening the average working week in Estonia. Only the assessment that Easter Day's second holiday is a public holiday in most Member States of the European Union and that there will be no interbank transfers on that day cannot be considered sufficient and the wider impact of such a legislative amendment should be analysed. One of the negative consequences of shortening the working week may be a reduction in the income of the worker. ' As you can see, the drafters are trying to push the impact analysis of the proposed draft law smoothly into the hands of the other institutions and have not worked hard enough in this regard. But we also have a citizen's letter on the table. The resume of this letter is in the last sentence, which reads: "Faith in public life and on the streets! ' All available materials have been reported. Of course, the draft also gave rise to an active debate in the Commission. This debate could be summarised in three points. Firstly, it really needs a more precise analysis, which the introduction of an additional public holiday, as well as a holiday day, will lead to in the country's life. Secondly, it is questionable whether there is a serious argument that the public holiday and the day of rest in other countries have disrupted communication with foreign countries on that day, or whether we can calmly deliver and make the necessary bank transfers the next day, when everyone is working, or the day before, when everyone is working. Third, the question was whether there was political readiness to replace the great Friday's second Easter on the public holiday list. However, no decision was reached on any of the issues in the Commission; of course, decisions were taken on the draft as a whole. The decision of the committee was that it was unanimously thought that today could be the day when the matter was being discussed in the Chamber of Riigikogu. There was a consensus that the role of representative of the Commission could be fulfilled by me, and it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft be rejected at first reading. There were 5 members of the Commission in favour and 4 against. In doing so, the committee gave further decision-making powers, both the right and the opportunity to the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U158	Thank you very much, Mr Peep Aru. Questions. Let's start with my colleague, Kalle Jents.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did the Commission get a clear picture of the real situation in the countries of the European Union? Priit Toobal spilled the numbers like a cuckoo, it got really messed up. At first, he said that it was sacred in all countries except Portugal and a few other countries, then some 11 and 13 came. Which day, then, will be given more priority as a day off, the great Friday or the second Easter? Did the members of the Commission also have the opportunity to formulate an opinion on the new idea that sounded in the Chamber today to replace this holiday instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U160	Thank you, esteemed penguin. In the Commission, it was unambiguously clear that today is not the second Easter public holiday in three Member States of the European Union: Estonia, Malta and Portugal. At that time, the Commission had no material to use that would have addressed which Member States of the European Union have a major Friday public holiday. Today, our Commission staff have done this analysis and it has become clear that a major Friday is a public holiday in 15 Member States of the European Union: Estonia, Bulgaria, Spain, Ireland, Italy, Greece, Cyprus, Latvia, Portugal, Sweden, Germany, Slovakia, Finland, Great Britain and Denmark. Big Friday is not a public holiday in 12 Member States: Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Poland, France, Romania, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U161	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U162	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! As you mentioned, in your opinion, the Government of the Republic complains to the initiators that there is no analysis of the impact on the domestic and also on the state budget. My question to you as a coalition politician is this: are you aware of whether the Government of the Republic, drawing up the annual draft state budget, will monitor it, for which day of the week a public holiday will happen, for example, Christmas Eve will end up on a weekend or a week, and will the state budget be affected and to what extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U163	Thank you! I think that on this point I am as wise as the honourable author of the question. I really do not know how to conduct a macroeconomic analysis in the Republic of Estonia, which indicators are taken into account precisely. Fortunately, we have specialists in the Ministry of Finance and in other institutions to carry out macro-economic analysis, for example, I am thinking of banks based on Eesti Pank and, of course, private capital. I believe that they will take into account all the factors in order to give us a clear economic forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U164	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm a little confused now. You have explained why the Commission or, rather, the government is not in favour of this draft, that the serious argument is not that in many European countries this day is a national holiday, and also a lack of impact analysis. That's the coalition's position. Yesterday, we had a stormy discussion for almost four hours about a draft, where the main argument is that everyone is joining and we should join together, there is no impact analysis, but there is a two-handed side. Why the double face, which is the right one?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U166	I think, Mr Questioner, that you have enough time here to turn your duplicity into a one-sided one. I also dare say with absolute certainty that the questions of the EFSF were not discussed at this session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U167	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U168	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks again! I hope someday you'll start pronouncing my name and my last name correctly. Sir...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U169	Stalnukhin. Right?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U170	Yeah, that's what I meant. Dear waitress, I really liked your report, really, really, and I'll tell you why. It was very pedantic, I like that. All correspondence received by the Commission on this matter was received from the church, the government and a private individual. Now I have such a request. Sooner or later, whether we like it or not, your committee will discuss the problem of gay marriages. May I ask that if you are appointed co-rapporteur, you give us an honest reading of all the letters that will be received by the Commission on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U171	The will of the Commission is, of course, my order. We'll see who that waitress is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U172	Please, Mr Jents, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U173	Thank you. The question is specific. As you said yourself, in the meantime, there has been more information that the Members of the Commission did not have before. How do you feel today, as a Member of the Commission, whether this bill can be processed further, or whether you will stick to this opinion, as decided by the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U174	I also told the Commission that as a lazy person by nature, I would very much like to have more holidays. However, looking from a national perspective and looking at the economic situation where we are, that we have work to do to move forward and develop the country, I voted against this draft in the Commission. My views have not changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U175	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U176	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Did the Commission mention how many members of the Commission understand what the Bible is and what it is about?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U177	Thank you, Mr. Asker! That's not what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U178	Please, Mr Paul-Eerik Rummo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U179	Thank you. How about now, would lazy people by nature want to leave this bill in the process, because it's a terrible lot of work, or turn around? Further processing this bill will, in my opinion, require a very great deal of work. The Commission obviously wants to be lazy and say that we are canceling the job. What's the position?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U180	Thank you, Mr Rummo, for this question. It's all in the hands of the great hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U181	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U182	I, too, am puzzled by the style of the performer and the approach to the question. You said our country was or we were in the economic state we are, and there is a lot of work to be done. An hour ago, the Prime Minister said that we are the best in the European Union, we are doing well. Then why can't we have an extra holiday?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U183	Mr. Lenk! You're a good colleague, but you ask such stupid questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U184	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Peep Aru. Do the delegates of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. Please speak as a representative of Andres Herkel's Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U185	Ladies and gentlemen, I think a conservative view should be that if we do one public holiday during each Riigikogu and increase their number, we will go to a ditch in a few decades. This approach should be generally understandable. In a few decades, the holidays would clearly be too much. One of the reasons I came here right now is that I don't want to take credit for being the proposer so that the great Friday and the second Easter should be changed on the calendar as public holidays. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not Herkel's proposal, it was Herkel's hypothesis in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where I put this question to the honourable rapporteur. I think it is rather odd to ask the Council of Churches whether the second Easter should be a public holiday. I think it is difficult for the Council of Churches here to answer differently than in the affirmative. But if we ask the question in such a way that it is necessary to choose either the big Friday or the second Easter, then we will have a very substantial answer, which could be our guide. I think that is what the Commission should be asking. We are of the opinion that the position of the Government of the Republic was not best founded during the Commission's debate, which is why this issue could be further discussed. But in order to simply add to the public holidays, let's say, we'd rather stick to a very modest position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U186	Thank you very much, Mr Herkel. I would like to ask for a chair as representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U187	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate revealed a lot of interesting things. I want to add one more thing to this. It is actually very interesting that the Commission was not discussing adding a public holiday, but replacing two public holidays. I suddenly remembered that I was a teacher. As a teacher and a whole faculty, I think I would very much like it if the first Pentecost and the second Easter had been changed, i.e. that the second Easter, which is usually in spring, would become a holiday and that holiday, which is usually when teachers are already on holiday, would become a national holiday. I'm telling you, the teachers would be very grateful. Either way, there's something to talk about. I ask for further discussion of the draft, with this idea, in order to find a consensual option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U188	Thank you very much, colleague. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed not to stop reading the first reading of the draft law, we need to vote through this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the decision of the commission to reject the draft law amending § 2 of the Holidays and Dates Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 52. Please vote! 12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 60 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. [[Let's hear it.]] According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the deadline for submitting amendments is 12 October at 18. First reading of bill 52 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U189	The first reading of the draft law amending the Youth Work Act and the Social Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group follows. Please waitress Rainer Vakra, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U190	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to report the draft amendment to the Youth Work Act and the Social Tax Act, which is issued by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, which bears number 38. The purpose of the draft is to amend the law. This is due to the need to regulate the concept of "pupils" at the level of the law and, in order to increase the number of occupations, the employer should be exempted from social tax on the remuneration paid to young people aged 13 to 18 working in cash. The reason is very simple: according to section 5 (4) of the Health Insurance Act, Estonian young people are covered by state health insurance until they reach the age of 19. For years, there has been a situation in which vacant chess positions fill in a few hours. This year, for example, SA Student enquiring offered 700 seats in 15 minutes with 1500 applications, then the process was terminated. Employers are often the same companies for years, and new ones, especially in cities, are becoming increasingly difficult to find. The aim of the draft is to increase the number of student accommodations, which would provide a greater number of young people aged 13 to 18 with the opportunity to gain work experience and develop social competences. Once adopted as a law, the situation of young people aged 13 to 18 who wish to take part in a student chess programme will be improved, as employers' social tax exemption will increase the interest of entrepreneurs in participating in the programme. As a result, the number of student accommodations is increasing, allowing young people to find meaningful and socially educational activities for the summer. Project camps and youth work projects within the student framework will contribute to shaping the values of young people who are about to grow up and to gaining work experience and social competence, which will ensure that young adults will live independently in the future. The implementation of this amendment will reduce the revenue of the state budget by close to EUR 130000. Why has the draft law dealt only with student chess, but not with all Estonian young people? The reason is very simple. The Estonian Youth Work Centre, which is a branch of the Ministry of Education and Research, has control over the student chess, which also means that national supervision is guaranteed. I hope that all ladies and gentlemen will consider this draft to be important and will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U191	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, One more question. We imagine that one farmer will set up a holding on, for example, 10 June and finish it on 31 August. He uses 16- and 17-year-olds to work there. He finishes his business and starts it again on 10 June next year and calls it a student chess. In fact, the work done in September, October, and the weekend can also be described as chess. Does that not give such a, say, clever entrepreneur the opportunity to avoid any form of social tax payment at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U192	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Mr Tarmo Leinatamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U193	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, How much are we talking about? Take, for example, the student A who is in the student chess. What is his average earning income during the summer and what is the size of the group working for one employer? How much could one employer win in relation to a student chess?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U194	Thank you, good questioner! The question is relatively philosophical. Depends on how much work someone wants to do. I looked it up: the incomes of all the young people who participated in the student chess are below the minimum wage. The size of one group is 30 young people in the middle, but there are also contractors who take several groups on several exchanges. The average income per young person is a few hundred euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U195	Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U196	Thank you. Good waitress! Is it known how many more interested companies could arise if this bill was adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U197	Thank you. I myself have met a number of existing partners who are involved in student chess and who are employers. Talking to them has shown that this is a very important motivation for them and could increase the number of student accommodations by more than 30%, or a third.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U198	Thank you. I believe that if the entrepreneur thought he was very clever, he would hire these students at all without a third party mediation. The emphasis is now that all activities are controlled by the state, or the Estonian Youth Work Centre, which is a party to all contracts, in the Ministry of Education and Research. On the other hand, students cannot function without the support of the state and the municipality, because entrepreneurs pay young people only salaries, they pay not for overnight accommodation, catering or anything else, but specifically for wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U199	Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U200	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I very much like the overall objective of this draft be able to give young people more opportunities to gain work experience. However, when we discussed this draft in the Committee on Culture, you were extremely repulsive and irritated at the opportunity offered that entrepreneurs who employ young people without chess and thus give young people the opportunity to gain work experience could also benefit from this tax credit. As we know, chess doesn't work in every region, and not all young people are prepared to participate in chess where they need to spend the night or in urban chess. In the meantime, have you been able to reflect calmly and agree that perhaps you could consider not underestimating other employment opportunities and extending this draft to other forms of work?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U201	Thank you. I certainly wasn't repulsive. I'm so sorry if you made that impression. My explanation for the fact that only student chess students have been spoken at the moment was very simple. I'll repeat that. The draft stipulates how state control is ensured through the Ministry of Education and Research. On the other hand, students play a broader role than students can earn pocket money. Students also play an educational and educational role. This is one of the cornerstones of this bill. But I will not rule out that in the future, we can make a bill together, where we will see that the newspaper boys of the Evening Light or the ice cream sellers of some ice cream producers are equally exempt from social tax. That's a really good idea. I think we can discuss this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U202	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U203	Thank you. I'm asking for more information. You've had a lot to do with a student chess. What kind of work are these basically what does a student mate mediate through employers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U204	Thank you. Most of all, of course, are all kinds of simple jobs that literally promote work education, such as berry harvesting, tree laying, clean-up, raking, picking branches. This is what, I believe, every young person is able to do and where the risk of all kinds of injuries is still minimised.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U205	Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U206	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I believe that you are from this school, which considers our common Estonian thing to be so common that it does not divide the summer student in two. Although the state finances most of what's going on, the mayor still sends the students to Tallinn as if they were on a separate path and says that the student chess was now opened. It's still a national matter, and it's curated by the Ministry of Education. I have a question about financial accounting. It must be based on some kind of distribution. What do you think is the proportion of public and private jobs currently offered to students?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U207	Thank you. I will certainly not divide chess so that Tallinn and the rest of Estonia will be chessful. On the other hand, in answering this question, I must limit myself to statistics that are more student-friendly in Tallinn, i.e. the Student-Student Statistics Foundation. Looking at the figures of recent years, the number of employers has fallen, but especially the role of private companies has decreased. Perhaps both the districts and the Tallinn city companies have managed to continue their good order projects, but the private companies have unfortunately left the boat.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U208	Please, Tõnis Lukas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U209	Thank you. I did not mean, with my question, not that these young people are getting jobs in the public sector, but that the public sector is ordering work. But what was your calculated basis? You have a specific amount here. Then there had to be some proportion between a public-sector subscription and a private-sector subscription, as the public-sector would pay for possible tax expenditure from the public budget anyway. What's the proportion you're going to get?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U210	When I look at the figures used by the Ministry, presenting their estimates to the Government of the Republic, they used the figure of 7306, in the example of 2010. In 2011, unfortunately, this figure has decreased, it cannot be said that half, but by a third, in 2011, nearly 4500 young people took part. We used the number 4500 and the year 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U211	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. I ask Lauri Luige, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed the draft law amending the Youth Work Act and the Social Tax Act 38 on Monday, 19 September. In addition to the members of the committee, the representative of the Central Party Group Rainer Vakra, who presented the draft, and Katrin Olt, the head expert of the Youth Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Kaire Liiv, the lawyer of the legal department participated in the meeting. In principle, the Commission supported the overall objective of the draft, and considered it important that youth employment and training progress. At the same time, it was recognised that this whole thing must be looked at in the context of the future state budget and taken one step with it. The question was raised as the mechanism proposed in the draft still motivates economic operators. Neither the initiator of the draft nor the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research could give a precise answer to this question. So there's no forecast today. However, the initiator of the draft stated that it is very likely that this will, to a certain extent, motivate businesses to create new places or channel money there. The Ministry of Education considered the draft to be a minus that the new concepts were defined in a bit confusingly. In fact, the form of action that the draft intends to write into the Youth Work Act is already covered by the same Youth Work Act. In fact, the concept of a youth project camp also includes a student-friendly concept. This was justified by the fact that the student-friendly concept remains a little narrow in order to introduce it into the law, since the general concept already exists. However, it was considered important that the acquisition of work experience should be encouraged more widely, not only in a more student context, but also to view it as a broader whole. The Commission recognised that there are differences in needs between regions. Student activities are linked to larger cities, but the situation is slightly different in rural areas and smaller regions. There were also differences in the health and working conditions of young people. The question was raised as to whether the money paid by entrepreneurs would still reach the young person in full. If, as an entrepreneur, I want to contribute to the work of young people, then either my money actually reaches the person or there are still some mechanisms or stages in which this money could disappear. In some cases bilateral agreements are concluded between young people and those who are in a position to work. In such a case, the chess organiser must find the resources for remuneration, catering and other purposes. However, in the case of a student, which is the idea of the initiator of the draft, the contract is tripartite, i.e. student chess, the employer and the young person enter into an agreement with each other, and the employer pays the remuneration directly to the young person. So in response to the question raised by the Commission as to whether money goes directly or indirectly in such a case: in the case of a student, the money goes directly, but in the case of other people who are working, this may not be the case. In conclusion, the Commission considered the issue to be important and should continue to be addressed in the future, perhaps in a bit wider context than in a more student-friendly context, and also to look for alternatives as to whether the abolition or compensation of the social tax component is the most appropriate solution, as there may be some other and better measures. It was therefore proposed that the Commission involve the Committee on Social Affairs in the debate on the draft, either in the form of an opinion or in a separate debate within the Commission on the subject. On this basis, the Committee on Culture made three decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 27 September. Since, unfortunately, it did not arrive on the agenda yesterday, we are discussing this draft today. The decision was taken in a consensual manner. The second decision was to propose to the Assembly that the first reading be closed (by 10 abstentions, 1 against 0). Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 10 working days for the submission of amendments. As we are discussing this draft today, this deadline will be at 18.00 on 12 October 2011. This decision was also adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U213	Thank you. You have a question. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U214	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I would like to ask whether there was no discussion in the Commission about the number of children aged 13 to 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U215	Thank you. As I recall, this figure was not specifically mentioned anywhere, and I do not find it in the Commission's minutes either. But we can definitely take that out, so we can sort this out later.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U216	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft law amending the Youth Work Act and the Social Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 6 p.m. on 12 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U217	Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U218	We will continue with the second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the cooperation agreement on pension insurance between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading of the draft Act 85 on the ratification of the cooperation agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on pension insurance initiated on 12 September was completed on 20 September. On the proposal of the Social Committee, the President of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting amendments at 16 a.m. on 23 September 2011. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. The Committee on Social Affairs reconvened for discussion on the draft on 26 September when the Commission's explanatory memorandum and the text of the second reading were approved. The proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs is to conclude the second reading of the draft and adopt it as a law. This is a draft which will be dealt with in two readings. So today, there will be a vote of adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U220	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. As there were no amendments, we will proceed to the final vote on the foreign treaty and prepare for the voting procedure. I will put to the final vote draft Act 85 on the ratification of the cooperation agreement on pension insurance between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 members of the Riigikogu, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 85 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U221	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Arto Asa, member of the Economic Commission for a chair as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! We have reached the second reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act 41. In short, I recall that this is a transposition of the European Union directive. We are in a bit of a time mess with the transposition of this directive. The first reading in this hall was June 15th. No proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees, but we met with the initiator and stakeholders of the draft and made six amendments to the draft, which are also available to you in the draft explanatory memorandum. In short, the first two amendments are linguistic. The third amendment is of a somewhat refined nature, specifying that lighting services are meant to illuminate airports rather than aircraft. The airport manager may charge a fee for this. Amendment 4 is more substantive. The content of the proposal is, in short, that when airport managers and airport users have to consult on airport charges, these consultations can also be held less frequently than once a year. If the original draft text provided for an annual consultation obligation, the managing body of the airport and the user may also agree on a slightly less frequent schedule. The content of this proposal was to add flexibility and reduce pointless bureaucracy in the negotiation process. Amendment 5 is also linguistic. Amendment 6 specifies that out-of-court practitioners within the meaning and provisions of the Aviation Act are the Authority and the Police and Border Guard Board. Amendment 6, in particular, we are correcting one of the fingernails that has entered the aviation law over time. This law has been amended tens of times separately in small parts and certain legal provisions have been lost in the course of these improvements. Now we're gonna fix that. Procedural decisions were such: the commission unanimously accepted all the amendments, proposed that the second reading be held in this large Chamber today and, when the second reading of the draft is closed, that the draft be referred to the third reading. a on 12 October, with a proposal to adopt it as a law. As I have already mentioned, all the Commission's decisions were adopted by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U223	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us examine the amendments. The first is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee takes full account. The second is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs, which is fully taken into account. The third is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs, which is fully respected. The fourth is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully accounted for. The fifth is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully accounted for. The sixth is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, fully accounted for. The second reading of Bill 41 has been completed and the third reading has been appointed as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U224	Let's go to the next bill. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Enlargement of the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development' begins. The rapporteur is Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U225	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I propose with this draft to increase Estonia's participation in the capital of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). The total capital increase is 10 billion euros and Estonia's share is 0.1%. This is the second capital increase in this bank, last year 2000. It does not entail a financial obligation for the owners of the bank. The EBRD has been profitable over 20 years of operation. The contribution is made by redeploying reserves to the tune of EUR 1 billion, the remainder, or EUR 9 billion, will be asked to subscribe to the shares. Estonia should subscribe to 900 shares in the amount of EUR 9 million. Estonia undertakes to ensure, if necessary, the bank's liabilities to the extent of its participation if the bank's loan portfolio deteriorates significantly and there is no continuation of the paid-up capital and reserves to cover the bank's liabilities, which is highly unlikely. The capital base of the EBRD is very strong and the potential obligation is unlikely to become real. Before asking shareholders for money, the EBRD should spend the reserves collected to cover losses. Shareholders will only be asked for the capital to be recovered in the final stage. We have no reason to expect the bank to change its successful and profitable policies. Even in the event of a decrease in our direct customer benefit (the peak of EBRD projects in Estonia was 1997-2002), the bank is important to Estonia because it allows Estonian companies to expand to the target countries of the bank and contributes to improving business culture in our neighbours and other important countries, such as the other Baltic countries, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus. The capital increase is primarily intended to enable the bank to meet the growing demand during and after the crisis. The EBRD was successful, for example, in stabilising the financial sector in Central and Eastern Europe, including investing EUR 100 million in Parex banka. It was very important that foreign banks did not withdraw too significantly from the EBRD's target countries during the crisis. This was generally achieved. We believe that this is a well-functioning bank, which within its competence must have an important consultative political dialogue with governments, putting pressure on countries to take steps to improve legal certainty and the like in the business environment. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U226	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of Andrus Saare, member of the Chair Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U227	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission agenda included a draft 77 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development' on 20 September. As the Minister for Finance has just given an overview of the draft, I will only briefly mention what has been said in the Commission. As the initiator, Kristiina Abel, adviser to the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the draft. The purpose of the draft is to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the EBRD to 900 callable shares, with a total value of EUR 9 million, in accordance with the conditions set out in the resolution. According to Resolution 128, Estonia has the right to subscribe to 900 shares, which we want to do in full. Let us mention here that the increase in the bank's capital is in line with our country's interest in supporting the development of the financial sector and important projects at national level, for example in the energy and business sectors. Assuming that all current shareholders participate in the capital increase, the participation rate of Estonia will not change, even after the capital increase it will be 0.1%. Now, about the questions and the issues that came up. I would like to mention right away that the draft was not a very long discussion. They asked how much direct property obligations our country would have. The answer was, 'The bank is heavily capitalised. Very unlikely. Used as a last resort if the bank's paid-up capital and reserves are not available. ' They also wanted to know which countries were particularly in need of support. In the near future, one such country will be Turkey, but not only Turkey. The purpose of the EBRD is to provide support for legal certainty in the business environment. The bank was asked what the effects of the current global crisis had on the bank. The answer was that the crisis has not damaged the bank so far and, in most cases, a profitable lending policy has been pursued. It was also said that if the Estonian state did not increase its participation, the same EUR 20 million would remain our participation, which would certainly not be in the interests of our country. The Commission did not make its proposals for the draft, and on the basis of the above information, the following decisions were taken: to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda on 28 September (all members of the committee were in favour of this proposal), to finish the first reading and to set the deadline of 6 October at 18. This decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U228	Thank you very much. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft decision 77 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 6 October. 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U229	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Establishment of Parental Obligations and Measures for the Protection of Children, on the Recognition, Implementation and Cooperation of the Law on Accession to the Convention, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice for a chair as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have to start by saying that this is a very good bill. The title of the draft is relatively long, but it should not be confused, as the draft itself consists of only four paragraphs. Now for the bill itself. In 1992 Estonia signed an agreement with Lithuania and Latvia on legal aid and legal relations. Estonia also concluded an agreement with Poland in 1998 on legal aid and legal relations in civil, labour and criminal matters. These legal aid agreements govern, inter alia, the jurisdiction of the courts, the enforcement and recognition of judgments and applicable law in relation to the legal relationships between parents and children, adoption, custody and care, and succession rights. In 2002, Estonia acceded to the Convention on Competence, Applicable Law, Recognition, Implementation and Cooperation for the Determination of Parental Obligations and the Application of Measures for the Protection of Children. The Convention contains legal provisions on matters of transnational competence, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions relating to parental responsibilities and child protection measures. The Convention has a total of 39 States Parties, including all 27 Member States of the European Union. Now for the question of yourself. The problem is that, although Lithuania, Latvia and Poland are also Contracting Parties to the Convention, the law applicable to relations between Estonia and these countries cannot be determined in accordance with the Convention, since, pursuant to Article 52 (1) of the Convention, the Convention does not affect other international instruments concluded between the Contracting Parties. Such instruments are legal aid agreements with Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, which partly regulate the same matters as the Convention. Thus, unlike all other countries of the European Union, legal aid agreements must still be applied in relations with Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. Since legal aid agreements and the Convention are based on different criteria for determining the applicable law, such as legal aid agreements based on the nationality of the child, and the Convention on the habitual residence of the child, such regulation may create uncertainty for half of the children. Such a difference makes the work of courts more difficult because courts cannot rely on a single regulation but must take into account the fragmentation of legislation. This problem with the bill will be solved. Article 52 (1) of the Convention allows a declaration in which a Contracting State declares that it will apply the Convention instead of an agreement between States Parties. In short, this means that the prerequisite is the habitual residence of the child, not the nationality. It is also important to note that most acts of private international law in the European Union are also based on the habitual residence of a person rather than on nationality. The initiative to make a declaration comes from the Latvian Ministry of Justice. In order for Estonia to make such a declaration, it is necessary to supplement the Act of Accession to the Convention on the Establishment of Parental Obligations and on the Application of Measures for the Protection of Children. Paragraph 4 of this Act introduces new paragraphs which provide that the rules of applicable law of the Convention prevail over legal aid agreements. As a result of the declaration, the Convention will be applied instead of legal aid agreements. This makes it possible to determine the law applicable in cross-border cases in the relationship between the child and the parent on the basis of uniform rules, which in turn facilitates judicial proceedings and facilitates the protection of people's rights. For those who have not followed this issue from the very beginning, I will briefly say that the problem is that Estonia has acceded to one convention and, at the same time, it has concluded legal aid agreements with a country before its accession to the Convention and they overlap in part. According to the Convention, when there are special agreements, they should be applied by us to legal aid agreements. At the same time, legal aid agreements are based on nationality, but on the place of stay of the Convention. Most acts of private international law in the European Union are also based on the habitual residence of a person rather than on nationality. The courts are struggling to interpret this provision. The Republic of Latvia has proposed to harmonise the standards so that the Convention will become applicable in the future. This should facilitate the work of the courts and it should also be easier for ordinary people. The Justice Department thinks it's reasonable. That's where I'm gonna end up. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I certainly support the completion of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U231	Thank you very much. No questions have been registered to the rapporteur. I'm asking for a chair of the Legal Affairs Committee, Siim Kabritsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U232	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. As the Minister gave a very thorough and good overview, I will not dwell on this matter. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 19 September. Bill 79 of the Act amending the Law on the Recognition, Implementation and Cooperation of the Convention on the Establishment of Parental Obligations and the Application of Measures for the Protection of Children, the Law on the Recognition, Implementation and Cooperation of the Convention, decided to refer the Riigikogu to first reading on the plenary session on Wednesday 28 September. The proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft (consensually) and set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. Wednesday 12 October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U233	Thank you. No questions for the performer. Any requests for negotiation? There are no negotiating requests. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft law 79 be discontinued. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 6 p.m. on 12 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U234	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on plant propagation and the amendment of plant variety rights law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus, who brought us good news about Kaia Kanep's victory!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U235	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! However, the Ministry of the Environment has not taken over the processing of the draft law on plant reproductive and plant variety rights, but I am here today as a replacement for the Minister of Agriculture and I am happy to present the draft. It is a draft law transposing the requirements of the Directive, which entered into force on 30 August 2010. There are certain derogations for the marketing of fodder plants and seed mixtures intended for the preservation of the natural environment. These requirements must be transposed into Estonian law on the basis of the Directive. a by 30 November. The draft also addresses issues related to the implementation of the directive on the marketing of fruit crops. The marketing of fodder plant seed mixture, or preservation mixture, intended to be used for the conservation of the natural environment and genetic resources is permitted as a novel requirement. The collection sites for the components of these preservation mixtures are protected areas and the use of preservation mixtures is intended to restore a natural area such as road edges or constructional careers. Seeds may be collected from the protected area in accordance with the rules of the nature reserve, subject to the consent of the protector of the protected area. The marketing of preservation mixtures must be subject to marketing authorisation, the components of the preservation mixture must meet the lowest requirements, i.e. the requirements of commercial seed as regards germination, purity and other such characteristics. The requirements for consumer seed are laid down in the Decree of the Minister of Agriculture on the marketing of fodder crops. Such a preservation mixture may be marketed during the year by 5% of the quantity of fodder plant mixtures marketed in the previous year. The marketing and production of preservation mixtures shall be officially supervised by the Agricultural Authority. As noted at the outset, the second important objective of this draft is to lay down the requirements of the directive on the marketing of fruit crops. A known variety shall be considered to be a fruit plant variety which has been marketed before 30 September 2012. Since these are old or marketable varieties, only a description of the variety on the basis of which the registrar decides on the acceptance of the variety must be submitted to the registrar for registration. There is no need for costly and resource-intensive technical tests such as the registration of a new variety. Since fruit crops are old varieties, a number of historically known variety names (for example, "Treboux' is also known as "Lambanina') can also be confirmed when these varieties are registered. If only one of these names is registered, this could mislead the consumer. The draft law amending the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law also lays down requirements for the registration of a variety of genetically modified fruit and berry crops. Such a variety shall comply with the requirements of distinctness, uniformity and stability of the variety and, in addition to the results of the technical examination, a marketing authorisation for genetically modified organisms shall be required. Predictably, there are no genetically modified varieties in Estonia. No authorisation for the release into the environment of genetically modified fruit or berry varieties has been requested so far. In the case of registration of a variety of genetically modified fruit and eggs, the applicant must also be authorised to use the genetically modified organism in the variety in the European Parliament and Council Regulation on genetically modified food and feed for that purpose for food or feed. With regard to the conservation of genetic resources, the current law makes some clarifications, for example, for the sake of legal clarity, that technical tests to determine distinctness, uniformity and persistence need not be carried out in the case of genetic resources and well-known varieties of fruit and berry crops. It is also specified that, in the case of varieties which are intended to satisfy 90% of the requirements for uniformity, the Office itself is able to develop less stringent testing methods. That concludes my introduction to the bill. I ask the Riigikogu to support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U236	Thank you. No questions for the performer. I request Meelis Mälberg, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as co-rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U237	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act 93 on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at its meeting on 22 September. The draft was presented to the Commission by Mr. Vahur Mõttus, Head of the Plant Health Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Tambet Sova, and Chief Specialist of the Plant Health Office of the Department of Plant Health. The Minister of the Environment has now given a very expert and thorough overview of the draft law. During the debate in the Commission, all the members of the Commission received exhaustive answers to their questions. The Members of the Commission did not disagree on the content of the draft. The Commission took the following decisions: to appoint Mr Meelis Mälberg as rapporteur at first reading of the Act on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, to send the draft to the Riigikogu for first reading on 28 September. a, thirdly, to propose to the Assembly that the first reading of draft 93 be closed, fourth reading, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments to draft 93 be set at 12 noon on 7 October 2011. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U238	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The commission has proposed that the first reading of bill 93 be discontinued. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments on 7 October. 12:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U239	We will proceed with the next item. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This time it is a draft, which is indeed from the field of the Ministry of the Environment. With the draft law amending the Waste Act, we take over our legal space the requirements of Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008. It is a new Waste Framework Directive which repeals the 2006 Waste Directive, the 1975 Waste Directive and the 1991 Hazardous Waste Directive. The 2006 Waste Directive was a codified option. In essence, the previous framework directive had been adopted quite a long time ago, in 1975, amendments in 1991. In the case of the draft, as you may have noticed, it is purely a transposition of the requirements arising from the directive. Although it is also well known to me that there is quite a debate on the waste law, its nuances and the possible revision of the law, both in the committees here and in the wider sense, all those issues that do not directly concern the transposition of the directive have been deliberately excluded from this draft. It has to be said that quite a lot of the new Waste Directive 2008 already exists in the Estonian Waste Act. For example, we have set out general principles for waste management, i.e. the obligation to treat waste in a way that does not endanger human health and does not endanger the environment. We have also taken into account the waste hierarchy, the proximity principle in the disposal of waste and the requirement to act in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle, according to which the cost of disposing of waste must be borne by the holder of the waste or by previous holders or by the producer of the product. The current Waste Act equally establishes the most important waste management requirements, such as the obligation to permit or register. As a result of the directive, we, as a Member State, have an obligation to establish a waste management plan. Now, what's new is in the bill compared to the law in force. The purpose will be specified. For example, in addition to environmental and health protection requirements, there is a duty to respect the efficiency of the use of natural resources. The scope is also specified. For example, animal by-products do not fall within the scope of the Waste Act, as this area is governed by a directly applicable Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and by a Regulation of the European Commission. The concept of waste becomes more precise. So far, 16 categories of waste have been used to clarify and characterize the concept of waste, which the European Commission and most Member States considered not to be clarity-creating and explanatory but rather confusing when discussing the draft directive. So this term has been specified. The law introduces the end-of-waste status according to which waste is recovered as a result of the product. If it can be used normally, if there is a market for this product and this product meets certain requirements, we will no longer be dealing with the mass reflected in the waste balance. The concept of by-product is also new. It is a product from the production process that does not have to be considered waste if it can be used without further processing. Similarly, it must have a market and meet quality criteria. Another nuance in terms is that we are no longer talking about the re-use of waste, but about the re-use of it. The concept of preparing waste for reuse, such as cleaning and repair of the part of the car, electrical and electronic equipment, will be introduced so that it can be re-used. The draft takes over our legal space a five-step waste hierarchy, which is directly derived from the directive. The primary task of this waste hierarchy is to prevent the generation of waste and the last, lowest level in this waste hierarchy is waste disposal, landfilling. The aim is to make every sense: that as little waste as possible reaches the landfill and as much waste as possible is taken if it cannot be avoided, in some other way. The requirements for the content of the waste management plan shall be specified. According to this bill, Estonia will also need to adopt a waste prevention programme by 12 December 2013. What should this program contain? An indicative list of measures is set out in Annex 4 to the Directive. We need to start preparing this programme. One requirement is also clarified. While Estonia has been required to collect waste by type since 2008, as of 1 January 2015, the directive that is transposed into our law will have to collect at least paper, cardboard, metal, plastic and glass waste by type. This requirement applies to all waste producers. The Waste Oil Directive is also repealed. Its requirements have been transposed into the Waste Directive and are also included in the draft on your tables. It is certainly worth mentioning that recovery targets are being set: 50% of the annual waste generated on municipal waste, 70% of the annual waste generated on construction and demolition waste. These targets will apply from 1 January 2020. That's the end of the short introduction right now. This is a very sensible and good draft, for which I would certainly ask the support of the members of the Riigikogu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U241	Thank you very much for your interesting presentation, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus! No one wants to ask you anything. I would like to ask Tõnis Lukas, Chairman of the Environment Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U242	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on the Environment dealt with the draft s. During the 19 September session, the Minister heard the presentation and discussed the subject a little, but considered it very reasonable that the Minister's proposal to remain within the framework of the amendments resulting from the directive in the further processing of the law rather than to extend the subject matter. This will probably make it possible to transpose this directive more quickly and better, as issues related to waste management can be opened more thoroughly, as demonstrated by our later meeting with the management board of the Estonian Waste Operators Association. This means that the issues raised in the extra question were not very many at the Commission's meeting. The individual questions were whether the Kunda cement plant was burning waste or waste fuel, and which, according to the law, regulates it from a substance that will periodically burn there. The role of local authorities in the transport of waste, their desire to transport waste and perhaps to do it more usefully for themselves, was also touched. But perhaps the most principled question was Valeri Korb, who asked whether the bill would make the current law more liberal or not. The minister replied that no, the law does not become more liberal because it basically does not change. There will be no fundamental changes that we need to decide here on the ground. The legislative changes are mainly due to the directive and to the way life goes. Waste management is known to be one of the most developing areas in life and in the economy. The Commission, as I have already said, met representatives of the Waste Operators Association, who made proposals or, rather, reiterated those proposals that they had presented to the Ministry during the round of coordination. Our message was that the Commission's decision is already apparent from the fact that we have decided to bring the draft to first reading unchanged, i.e. we consider it wise to remain within the framework of the directive. The Commission decided to appoint the first reading today, to propose the completion of the first reading and to propose amendments if the members of the Riigikogu have them, i.e. a by 12 o'clock on 5 October. It was decided to appoint the chairman of the committee to represent the Commission in the proceedings for this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U243	Thank you. Tõnis Lukas, you have a registered question. Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The waste sector is already quite complex and increasingly complex in Estonia and Europe, as we see from these draft laws and directives. This is a very large and serious area, yet when a common man hears the words 'waste' and 'waste', emotion is obviously not pleasant. What's so nice about the waste? I wanted to ask you what your own gut is when you introduce this bill. Will there be a positive or negative internal feeling with regard to the waste sector? There are very many people who see quite a lot of positive in the area of waste, and we know that there has already been some competition in Estonia for waste flows.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U245	Thank you. Waste is part of our lives. There are different types of waste, and there are also very beautifully decorated packages that even invite themselves to pick themselves up and buy them. But no, I don't shake my hands when I read that law. It is all the more so that this law does not cover, for example, animal excrement, if it is not covered by subsection 1 (2) (2), straw or other natural non-hazardous agricultural waste, etc., which people are accustomed to feeling, smelling and perhaps giving rise to the impression that the waste is somehow dirty. No, waste management is proud, as is the interest of companies in this activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U246	Thank you very much. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The commission has proposed that the first reading of bill 76 be discontinued. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 5 October 2011.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U247	The last item on our agenda today is the first reading of the draft law amending the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft law does not deal with nuclear energy, it is not a nuclear law, I will say that right away, because I know that this issue has arisen. This draft does not deal with the decision whether or not to establish a nuclear power plant in Estonia. However, this is a clarification of our national radiation and nuclear safety system. This law transposes Council Directive 2009/71/Euratom of 25 June 2009 establishing a Community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations. This will not lead to major changes for Estonia, as there is only one nuclear installation in Estonia during the closure phase and, as I said earlier, new installations have not been decided to be built. The legislative amendment that you have on your tables specifies that before a new nuclear installation is established, it is first necessary to adopt a principled permitting decision in the country and only then can you apply for a radiation licence issued under the radiation law. In order to ensure better radiation safety, the draft law amending the radiation law provides for a number of clarifications. One of the areas specified by the amendment to the radiation law is the safe management of radioactive waste, but also the role of different authorities in ensuring radiation safety. A new mandate for the enforcement of the Regulation specifying the handling of sources whose owner cannot be identified. Another important area is the clarification of response in emergency situations, complementing both the concept of an emergency and the responsibilities of the authorities in the event and resolution of such a situation. In order to better regulate this area, a mandate is given for the establishment of a regulation of the Government of the Republic. The legislative amendment also clarifies the role and tasks of the Environmental Board. In particular, the Environmental Board has the right to provide paid services in the field of radiation safety. It is not new services, but services for which the Environmental Board already has the know-how. The list and prices of these paid services will be set by the Minister of the Environment in a regulation. That's all for an introduction. I am happy to answer the questions and also ask the Riigikogu to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U249	Thank you. There's a question for you. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned nicely in the introduction that this legislative amendment does not include the decision whether or not to establish a nuclear power plant in Estonia. But I ask which law would then specifically regulate how and under what conditions a nuclear power plant could be built in Estonia. Who prepares it or should prepare it, and when can it be expected, for example, in this Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U251	Thank you for that question. As I begin with the last part of the question, as the preparation of this draft law falls within the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, they are involved in preparing it, I do not dare or wish to have any specific and final deadline for my colleague. I'm sure it's possible to ask Juhan Parts. Indeed, the existing laws are not enough to allow us to move forward on the subject of the construction of a nuclear power plant. If at any moment this fundamental decision is made that a nuclear power plant is coming to Estonia, a new law is needed. This new law is called the nuclear law. A working group has been set up in the Ministry of Economic Affairs to prepare it. Certainly, general principles can be laid down in the nuclear law. But, of course, this requires a series of lower-level regulations to ensure that everything is accurate, thoroughly considered and prepared. But I will also say in front of the Chamber of Riigikogu what I have emphasised in several other forums. In my opinion, everything that concerns the future of energy should now be one of the most important debates in society. I would like this debate to be somewhat more lively than it has been so far, and that politicians, not just politicians, would certainly be involved in this debate. So I urge the members of the Riigikogu, as well as the various committees, to take the initiative in this debate. In fact, it is not just a question of whether or not a nuclear power plant. The question is what choices we make in ensuring our energy security and energy in general. Whatever you choose, it's pretty well known to everyone. The important thing is that these choices must be made and very clearly acknowledged that if we say no to one thing, then that means that we must probably say yes to another thing in our energy portfolio. But once again: I really call for this debate to be very intensive and also to involve experts from outside Parliament, the government and the circle of politicians.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U252	Thank you. The draft law amending the radiation law has aroused a keen interest, we have a number of questions. Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U253	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, the Act amending the radiation law is not a law establishing a nuclear power plant in Estonia, nor can it be. But you mentioned, in answer to the previous question, that we are still talking about nuclear energy and energy security. My question about this particular draft is as follows: is this draft not intended to prevent the development of nuclear energy in Estonia in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U254	Thank you. This draft provides a very precise framework for all aspects of the system for ensuring radiation and nuclear safety. I have no reason to believe that anyone would like to further develop the idea of nuclear energy, as you mentioned, in any way contrary to the radiation and nuclear safety system. In view of this, the answer is no, this law certainly does not make this fundamental decision or create obstacles, but it does lay down very specific requirements that must be met by the activities in the field of radiation and nuclear safety in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U255	Thank you. Next question, Erki Arrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U256	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You called for a conversation. This draft law amending the radiation law, which is rather a directive, contains a reference to the management of nuclear waste. Is this the beginning of the regularisation of the construction of the nuclear power plant? You said that the nuclear power plant or this initiative should be more dealt with by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. What do you think should be done first, and then the law or vice versa, first the law and then the calculations on the nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U257	Thank you. It makes sense to start working out the law when we have taken together a fundamental decision as to whether we are going this way at all. This, in turn, makes sense, as I referred to above, not only to one issue, not only by focusing on the nuclear power plant, but also by looking at the entire energy portfolio that is possible. I think it is early to decide that yes, we will take this fundamental decision and start building a nuclear power plant in Estonia. I think that the so-called calculations you have also referred to, the weighing of the various impacts must be done very, very thoroughly, and only after that will we be able to decide on all possible environmental and economic advantages and disadvantages. I didn't understand the reference to nuclear waste. Once again: there is no plan in Estonia to start landfilling nuclear waste. And once again: the question of our own nuclear power plant must first be decided at principle level, and only after that will it make sense, if we decide that it is a good decision, to continue to deal with the details. I think that we have not now reached this stage of the debate so that we can say yes, we are going to take very intensive action towards the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U258	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, good minister! You very commendably called for a revival of the discussion, and we have the opportunity to liven up and decorate today's dark autumn evening with this discussion. Of course, there is still a great deal to be done to start a serious discussion on the establishment of a nuclear power plant in Estonia. A discussion is currently under way on whether or not to join the nuclear power plant in Lithuania. The government will probably give us information about this in the near future. But one possible prerequisite for debate is the certainty that in the future we will have those specialists who will operate the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U260	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U261	Do we now have specialists who can prepare this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U262	Thank you for your question. I appreciate the potential of Estonian universities, and I believe that we already have specialists who would be happy to take part in this debate. Of course, in our universities, especially in recent years, as you probably know very well, everything that concerns the energy sector has become the subject of an even more acute focus. This knowledge certainly exists within Estonia, but of course it is wise and sensible to involve experts, know-how not only from Estonia, but also from countries where, for example, nuclear disputes have already been held in a very thorough way. However, I come back once again to the fact that the debate on energy, the energy portfolio, should not focus solely on the nuclear power plant. When involving experts, it is of course necessary to look for experts in this field, but not only. We are also talking about biomass energy, wind energy, hydropower, and solar energy, which probably cannot be very successful in Estonia. We are discussing the perspectives of oil shale, but also, for example, LNG as a possible addition to our energy portfolio. The thing that hasn't been discussed very much, but what could be, I think, central is our energy connections and their development. The question of atomic energy is only one of everyone else. Only by focusing on this can we get a very wrong picture and we can completely unearnedly exclude all opportunities for diversifying the rest of the energy portfolio. But I believe that the President of the sitting has long wanted to call me to order, because I have deviated a little from the content of the bill 80. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U263	There is nothing, Minister, the respondent can speak exactly as long as he wishes. No further questions. Thank you very much to the Minister for the Environment. Kalle Palling, Member of the Environment Committee, will be the co-presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U264	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to warmly thank you for the opportunity you gave to the Minister that he was able to answer so thoroughly the questions that may have gone somewhat out of the framework of this bill. I am really grateful that there were so many questions and that this area was dissected. Now from the process of proceeding with the bill. The Board of the Riigikogu took the draft into its own procedure. At its meeting on 13 September 2004 and appointed the Committee on the Environment as the lead committee. The draft was presented by Keit Pentus, Minister of the Environment, and Evelyn Pesur and Reelika Runnel, chief specialists of the Ministry's Climate and Radiation Department. As mentioned, the draft relates to the transposition of the Euro Directive and to the obligations imposed by the National Development Plan on radiation safety and its implementation plan. Two new concepts are introduced: nuclear safety and the nuclear installation. The definition of radioactive waste management is specified. Two new decrees of the Government of the Republic and one regulation of the Minister of the Environment will be introduced. They regulate the response to emergency and permanent exposure situations, as well as the management of radioactive waste and the provision of paid services. There was also a modest debate in the Commission, which asked questions similar to those asked in this Chamber today, mainly on the construction of a possible nuclear power plant and the creation of the necessary law for it. Interested in who exactly should work it out and where we are. We also received the answer that a large part of the law has actually been prepared in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It was also asked how many people are involved in radiation surveillance in Estonia. In principle, the debate was limited to that. The committee proposed to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 5 October. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz;
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U265	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U266	Thank you. Honourable speaker! I ask about § 302 "The obligations of the authorisation holder in the operation of a nuclear installation'. Does this quality system, which is necessary to comply with radiation safety requirements, come with this directive or is it a quality system for nuclear safety operations in preparation at the Ministry, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U267	Thank you. Of course, you could have asked the Minister that question. I will give an overview of the Commission's debate. The content of this section is derived from the Directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U268	Thank you. Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U269	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress Kalle! I remember from the Commission's debate that there was a rather tight competition for the co-rapporteur. What do you think it may have come from? What is your opinion on whether humanity has already gained its rod in the field of nuclear energy and radiation safety, or whether there are still prospects for development on this issue in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U270	Thank you, good questioner! To be honest, I do not remember that there would have been an invasion of the position of rapporteur for the commission. That was true on the previous item, when we dealt with the Waste Act. It's hard to tell how tough those sticks have been. Every disaster is shaking the world and humanity, but I think what we are doing when we transpose the directive and what is really meant by creating this directive will certainly help to prevent these situations from happening in the future. Monitoring and prevention in the construction of such sites would be very good to ensure that all requirements are met with punctuality.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U271	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U272	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I have a question about your report. You did not specify the topic discussed in the committee how many people are involved in radiation surveillance in Estonia. This question also arose in the Commission. Maybe you'll be more specific about how many of them are there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U273	Thank you. Monitoring is carried out by the Environmental Inspectorate. I do not know how to specify this figure and it was not specified in the Commission, but all the necessary tasks will be fulfilled. There is only one object in Estonia that is being monitored. As a result, we do not need too many people to be specifically monitoring this day. The correct answer is that we do not have any persons in Estonia who would only be involved in radiation monitoring, but the programme for preparing nuclear specialists has already taken place at the Technical University, which is what the University of Tartu wanted to do. At present, the programme for the preparation of specialists is somewhat under pressure in connection with the reform of higher education policy, but I hope the Minister of Education still considers nuclear energy to be a very serious choice. We certainly need to prepare these specialists, whether we are building a nuclear power plant in Estonia or not. The acquisition of a stake in the Lithuanian nuclear power plant is currently very seriously under discussion. Estonian specialists could also work freely there. Good professionals are needed everywhere and they usually do not know national borders, they will find an application in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U274	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U275	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Although everyone in the Commission understood that radiation law does not directly concern nuclear power and its development, it nevertheless came up in the Commission. Since you were a spokesperson for this support group in the previous composition, you can answer what are the external influences or factors that can slow down the development of nuclear energy from the Estonian point of view or, on the contrary, add a lot of speed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U276	Thank you. To be clear, this support group has also been set up and I am still chairing it. The price of energy is certainly important from external factors, which depends to a large extent on the price of inputs in the Estonian context and elsewhere. One of the biggest inputs that affects the price of electricity in Estonia is the price of CO2 tonnes. We'll see. Next year, the current period of the so-called Kyoto period is coming to an end, and then it will be clear what will happen to the price of CO2 in the future. If the price of CO2 continues to rise, we will inevitably need to consider alternatives to the current very carbon intensive energy production, we need to consider replacing it and what would be affordable for the electricity consumer both in Estonia and on the Nord Pool power exchange more generally, where we are all nicely at the beginning of 2013. When we look at our immediate neighbours and Nord Pool's electricity market players, both Sweden and Finland are getting their electricity mainly from nuclear energy. I am not sure that, in the long term, our oil shale energy will be sustainable without subsidising the state. I think that dealing with nuclear power and preparing laws should, in any case, be a priority. If the price of CO2 continues to rise, we need to react quickly, because it will take at least seven or eight years to set up the plant. We need to get this under control. But if we're in a starting position for another two or three years, I think we can just be among the behinds, and some neighbouring countries are setting up a station in their territory where we're going to buy electricity more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-28_U277	Thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. The commission has proposed to stop the first reading of the draft law amending the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 80 amendments on 5 October 2011 at 12 noon. Today's trial is over. Thank you very much to all participants. Have a nice evening! Closure of the sitting at 5.33 p.m.
