ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues want to hand over drafts or enquiries? Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U2	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to give you two drafts for discussion: the draft law amending the law on basic school and upper secondary school and the draft law amending the law on pre-school children's institution. Both drafts concern school meals. Firstly, school meals are addressed in upper secondary schools, which was a very serious topic for discussion in election debates in recent months. Surely many young people here have legitimate expectations. The draft law amending the Pre-school Children's Institution Act provides for the cost of catering for a child to be covered by EUR one and a half, which is currently the average cost of catering for children's institutions. We can certainly discuss these two drafts together and shape our position on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 100 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 1. Now the messages. Firstly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Chairman of the Group is Kadri Simson, Vice-Chairs Mailis Reps and Valeri Korb. Secondly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the Chairman of the Group is Jaanus Tamkivi, Vice-Chairs are Remo Holsmer and Valdo Randpere. Thirdly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Chairman of the Group is Urmas Reinsalu, the Vice-Chairs of Kaia Iva and Toomas Tõniste. Fourthly, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has registered the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the Chairman of the Group is Sven Mikser, the Vice-Chairs Eiki Nestor and Indrek Saar. Today, after the end of the session, four parliamentary groups (Estonia-Finland, Estonia-Spain, Estonia-Sweden and Estonia-Thailand) will be held in this Chamber. You are welcome to attend. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, there will be no briefing tomorrow. The plenary session of the Riigikogu starts at 14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U4	The only item on today's agenda is to decide on the mandate of the Prime Minister-designate Andrus Ansip, appointed by the President of the Republic, to form a government. Before we go to that, I will show you how this item is being dealt with. The delegation of powers to the Prime Minister's candidate to form a government is specified in § 131 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. The President of the Republic appointed s. a On 4 April, by decision No 877, Mr Andrus Ansip, candidate for prime minister, was appointed to form a government. Pursuant to § 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the prime minister candidate will present a report to the Riigikogu on the basis of the establishment of a future government. The prime minister candidate expressed his wish to make a presentation before the Riigikogu at today's Riigikogu session. The presentation by Prime Minister-designate Andrus Ansip of the basis for the formation of the government lasts up to 25 minutes. The following questions. A member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions to the candidate Prime Minister. There will be no negotiation. A final vote will follow. The power to set up a government for the prime minister candidate is decided by the Riigikogu by a majority vote. This means that a candidate for a Prime Minister will receive a mandate if more members of the Riigikogu vote in favour of it than against it (§ 131 (3)). We will begin the debate on the mandate of the Prime Minister candidate appointed by the President of the Republic, Andrus Ansip, to form a government. I'm asking for Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! Good people of Estonia! The Riigikogu building was the first public building in Tallinn to be designed with electric lighting. It was a symbolic act: with the latest technology at the time, the free people were the first to provide their own chamber of representation, because it is here, from this hall, that we must demand fresh solutions and spirit light. In our modern world, electricity and electric lighting are no longer news. We are getting so far that next year, thousands of electric cars will be driving on Estonian roads and there will be loading points across the country. Estonia is a rapidly developing country. The world around us, too, is not a frozen, unchangeable environment. As Estonia's statehood becomes more stable and secure, the world as a whole seems to be facing a rather troubled and difficult era. International relations are increasingly important: what is happening in Lebanon, North Africa and Japan directly affects us. We need to understand what is happening in order to be ready to take action at the right time. Being a member of influential international organisations, Estonia is among the decision-makers. Decision-making is a responsibility that goes beyond the borders of Estonia and often Europe. Together with our friends, partners and allies, we are ready to make the necessary decisions at the right moment. We understand that responding to international problems alone is not enough; they must also be prevented. Estonia is proud of its people who help solve crises in different parts of the world. For almost all countries in the world, the most difficult challenge of recent years has been to cope with the global economic crisis. Countries behaved differently in the crisis, some are still looking for a way out. But across the world, economic experts agree that budget balance, reserves and the most flexible economy, including low debt, are key to coping with the crisis. The government, which is now going to distribute money for daily expenses, would show that it has learned nothing from the crisis experience of recent years. Such a government would have no full learning capacity. Estonia could not afford such a government. Dear Riigikogu! The government, which I am asking for your support to form today, in the first point of the governance agreement, will allow the government sector to move to a structural budget surplus by 2014 at the latest and then to keep the surplus in all growth years. By this we have made it clear that the policy aimed at improving the quality of life of the people of the government asking for a mandate is framed by the obligation of responsible and intelligent management; the obligation to continue developing Estonia as an attractive and reliable economic environment. This is not an easy task, but I am hopeful because the parties of the new government that is to be born have worked together well old: we have eaten together several trees of salt and hardened in the economic crisis. Honourable representatives of the people! Today is the third time I have spoken before you in accordance with Article 89 of our Constitution. By presenting the basis for the formation of the government, I would stress that the ten major tasks of each of the Estonian Prime Ministers and government, which I mentioned four years ago in this very remote area, are still topical. The main aim of the government's activities is to improve the quality of life of people, to create Estonia and such a living environment that our culture will progress, more children will be born and the life expectancy of Estonians will be increased, and people will be happy to live here. What will the new government do if you give it a chance? We intend to continue the structural reforms in education that have been started and to make the necessary strategic decisions in energy. We need to reform special and preferential pensions, introduce insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases and increase the security of flexibility in the labour market. We intend to reduce labour taxes, reduce the income tax rate to the same level as the VAT rate, eliminate the special preferential tax on work-related level training, further develop the general economic environment towards business-friendlyness and increase the social security of families and pensioners with children. A competitive economy, a family-friendly state, a sense of social security and a highly educated nation are our greatest goals. Good friends! A healthy economy brings about an increase in the standard of living for all Estonians , so I will sum up a large, 55-page coalition agreement with one sentence. The rise in the standard of living of Estonian people is a prerequisite for stable economic growth and a competitive economic structure, as it is the new jobs, pension increases, services for families with children, safety and good education that depend on them. Progress in the global value chain is key to economic growth in Estonia. What has been done and created in Estonia must become significantly more valuable and competitive. The state contributes to economic growth by creating an attractive and reliable environment: education, research and cultural development, labour market, infrastructure, IT, energy, transport and justice, and economic diplomacy. Estonia will continue to make progress with a strong market economy and liberal economic policy to gather wealth, which will gradually improve the lives of all people. The goal of the family and population policy of the government association is to create a family-friendly country from Estonia, where people are happy to have children and to raise and age with dignity, which ensures that the Estonian people are a growing nation. To this end, we will ensure that the parental benefit system continues and we will also introduce a parental pension. In order to increase the participation of young people in activities of interest and reduce risk behaviour, we will establish a leisure fund. The government that is to be created considers it right that the principle of more support for those who need more help and who have more children must apply even more when family benefits are paid. We will also continue to make childcare facilities more flexible in order to help parents get back to the labour market more quickly and thereby increase the income of families. The objective of the labour market and social policy of the government union is to increase people's incomes, improve quality of life and increase social security. We value the higher incomes of good economic development in the country, decent subsidies that meet real needs and dignified ageing. Yes, the latter means a stable pension increase for our older people. According to current forecasts, the economy is growing at such a rate that I can say: pensions will rise in the next and following years. In reducing unemployment, we focus on young people as well as those who have been absent from the labour market for a long time. We are developing active labour market measures, depending on the labour market situation, including wage support, work placements, start-up support, training of unskilled people. We improve the ability of the unemployment fund to help people find a new job by providing faster services, modern information technology opportunities and a more personalised approach. However, education is, of course, the best tool for combating unemployment and for raising people's wealth. This is why the challenges in education policy are undoubtedly one of the most important for this government. Our long-term goal is to bring Estonian education to Nordic excellence. The Nordic level of education begins with the provision of child care and proper early childhood education for each child, which means today's general education and which leads to high-quality higher education. It is the latter area that receives special attention from the government union that is born. We want to implement innovations that make high-quality higher education available free of charge to all capable Estonian young people. The Government League wishes to see Estonia as a society where creativity and creative people are valued. Professional culture and the opportunity for all Estonians to participate are also at the heart of the government's attention. Good Riigikogu and respected guests! I assure you from this speaking board that the aim of Estonian foreign policy will not change, this is to ensure Estonia's security and welfare growth. We will continue to be active in international organisations. We are designing policies in the European Union, the North Atlantic Alliance, the United Nations and other communities. We deepen transatlantic cooperation, maintain good relations with all our friends and neighbours, develop the European Union's Eastern Partnership, stand up for human rights, enhance development cooperation and contribute to resolving crises in the world. Recent events have clearly shown that the protection and assistance of Estonian people abroad is one of the important activities of the state. The more Estonia develops and the world expands for us, the more the role of the state in protecting citizens and businesses will increase. Good listeners! Estonia is no longer a transitional country. However, I do not share the view that Estonia has already become a so-called boring Nordic country or that we should, over time, set ourselves the goal of becoming such a state. Instead, I think that Estonia could be a rapidly developing, free and dynamic Nordic country. Such a country will never actually be ready, but it will never stop striving for a better way of life, for the best possible standards of living. I am convinced that this is the kind of Estonia we want to live in. I believe that in the next four years Estonia will be governed by a strong Riigikogu and a capable government, and together we will bring Estonia four years closer to the wealthiest in Europe. I hope in this work that civil society, the media and the opposition will have a fair share of sympathy and thought. Thank you and good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U6	Thank you very much. Any questions for the prime minister's candidate? Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! You started your speech very nicely. You said that when the Riigikogu building received electrical lighting, fresh solutions were expected from this hall. I think that voters also expect fresh solutions from the incoming government. But when you read the coalition agreement that you will become your agenda, it is clear that with regard to the labour market, you intend to pursue exactly the same policy that has guaranteed in recent years that Estonia is among the five countries with higher unemployment in Europe. Many Estonians no longer have faith in finding work in Estonia. We see that there are very many participants at all these events where jobs are offered abroad. Is the solution of your government, which is to put it together, that unemployment will go away by itself? Is your solution emigration?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U8	Thank you. A good questioner understands that the solution he proposes is not a solution. A good questioner also knows that unemployment has started to decline very rapidly in Estonia and the rate of unemployment reduction has been faster than the majority of experts have expected. Of course, a good questioner also knows that this has not happened by itself. Estonia has managed to keep its public finances in order. It has given faith to investors who have created a significant number of new jobs here. I am convinced that if we continue with just a firm conservative fiscal policy, there will be more investment in Estonia. This means, however, that new jobs will be created and unemployment will be further reduced. So Estonia's prospects are very good compared to many other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U9	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U10	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! The reduction of poverty, in particular the reduction of poverty in families with children, has been and will continue to be a very important priority for the social democrats. It is regrettable that there is nothing in the coalition agreement to read about increasing the universal child benefit of less than EUR 20 so far. However, one point in the coalition agreement states that the principle of more support for those who need more help and who have more children must continue to apply to the payment of family benefits. In four years' time, in order to assess whether you have fulfilled your coalition agreement in 93 or 95%, I would ask you to state as concretely as possible how many families, families with children are most in need, and what year and what kind of benefits they can expect from your government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U11	Thank you. The more the government and the Riigikogu take action to reduce poverty, the lower the number of people in need of support will be. In Estonia, the share of people living in relative poverty in the population has decreased significantly in recent years. If, two years ago, 19.7% of the Estonian population lived in relative poverty, this percentage has now fallen to 15.8. This is the fastest reduction in the share of people living in relative poverty in the European Union. How did we achieve that? The good questioner probably knows that, above all, this was about increasing pensions, which reduced the number of people living in relative poverty. Secondly, we achieved this with our good unemployment insurance system, which has not allowed the unemployed to fall into relative poverty. In recent years, we have significantly increased the efficiency of social spending and directed resources primarily to those who really need state aid. Of course, we have also significantly reduced subsidies. However, relatively few people are also aware that the share of social expenditure in Estonia has increased very rapidly in the years of the crisis as compared to gross domestic product. While since 2000 the share of social expenditure was 12 to 13% of gross domestic product, last year we spent as much as 19% of gross domestic product to solve social problems. I believe that the Social Democrats have noticed that the outgoing government has made social spending more effective and that they will continue to support these measures in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U12	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U13	Dear Mr. Ansip! On 9 September 2010, the Government Office, chaired by you, basically approved the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan for 2010-2014. I can't find any references to this document in the coalition agreement. I want to hear from you what the relationship between the government to be created and this Ida-Virumaa agenda is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U14	Thank you. In Estonia, governments are consistent, just as the compositions of the Riigikogu always continue to follow the beginnings of previous formations. Of course, the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan is also the basis for the start-up government. I expect that even if the power to form a government is not given to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-05_U15	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister's candidate, for your presentation. We can go to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the mandate of Prime Minister candidate Andrus Ansip to form a government. Please vote! 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and no abstentions. Prime Minister-designate Andrus Ansip was authorised to form a government. [[Let's hear it.]] I wish you luck and success on behalf of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10:27 a.m.
