ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the fourth working week. It is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the Law on Plant Protection and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and other laws. Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U3	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I have the honour of handing over to you the draft law amending the Law on Rescue Services. Let me give you a brief description. You know that, unlike other dangerous professions, such as police and border guards and military officers, rescue workers do not have a special pension. That's not what they're after. There are still some actors in this field, such as smoke and chemical divers, as well as deminerators, workers with an increased level of risk. This is also shown by the fact that over the past five years, 73 people have had to leave the service for health reasons. In this regard, we have drawn up a draft which would give them the opportunity, I would stress, to go on retirement rights ten years earlier than the three years provided for in the current law. Our calculations show that these people will be up to 150 in the next five years. But once again, it's only an opportunity. So good work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now the messages. The Government of the Republic took s. a draft law restricting the acquisition of immovable property 54. Therefore, this item will not be dealt with in the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 12 October: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's get to the presence check. Seventy-eight people have registered to be present at the moment, 23 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U6	We're going to the agenda. Today's agenda includes a presentation by the Chancellor of Justice and discussions on three draft laws. The first item is the report by the Chancellor of Justice on the monitoring of the constitutionality and legality of legislative acts, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, and the activities of the Chancellor of Justice as a prevention authority. I will brief you briefly on the procedure for dealing with this item. First, the Chancellor of Justice makes a report of up to 30 minutes, then the members of the Riigikogu can ask the Chancellor of Justice one oral question. Following questions, negotiations will be opened in which only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Now, please report to Chancellor of Justice of the Chair, Indrek Tederi! Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U7	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Respectable members of the Riigikogu! This is my first annual speech to the Riigikogu elected in spring 2011. The mere fact that more than half of the XII Riigikogu has been elected a representative of the people before shows, in fact, the trust of the voters and the fact that the Estonian legislator has demonstrated by his actions that he is on the level, and that in principle he can be satisfied. But we can never rest on success and laurels and simply enjoy contentment. Life constantly offers new challenges and needs for decision - making. The decisions you have taken and the decisions you have taken alone will shape Estonia's life in the very long term. The main topic of my annual report is Parliament as the decision-maker. After all, it is good to judge every decision if it is judged critically. I would like the composition of the XII Riigikogu to take my subsequent criticism and views as part of a normal working process. I am a critic because of my position, but I have always stressed that I am a constructive critic, with the emphasis on the word 'constructive'. All my statements are about the desire and the task of defending constitutional values. The summary of the activities of 2010 gives an overview of my actions in defending constitutional values last year. You've got that review online, and I'm not going to rewrite it. I may not have an original effect, but, based on the review, I am just saying that many cases that have been through my hand show very clearly that Estonia needs to strengthen the content of administrative reform to ensure that people's fundamental rights and freedoms are better ensured, a change in the content of local governments, one of which is traditionally worth considering is to narrow down their number. At the same time, if the drawing of borders does not succeed in any way, then the taking over of the duties of local governments by the state could be considered, because the fundamental rights of individuals must be guaranteed. Whether the guarantor is the State or the local government, it is probably a secondary issue from the perspective of the person, as long as these fundamental rights are guaranteed. In my opinion, the dispute between the state and the local government, which is whose responsibility and who pays, is highly questionable in terms of guaranteeing the fundamental rights of the person. After all, money is always less than there is a need for it, and it can be argued endlessly, but fundamental rights are not guaranteed, public services are scarce. Indeed, we can always argue, but is this not a waste of the national capacity of a small country? Moreover, both the state and the local government are still human and perhaps not the other way around. A simple truth that sometimes tends to be forgotten. If you look at the responsibilities of local governments, such as social affairs, public transport, the creation and financing of kindergartens, the planning process, the organisation of construction supervision (I mentioned here just a few tasks of local governments) and compare them with the number of inhabitants and budgets of local governments, you can see a clear contradiction. Where does a municipality with less than a thousand inhabitants take money to hire a professional and motivated social worker or an official competent for the processing of plans, or to arrange for a smooth public transport to the nearest attraction centre? The residents of small municipalities also want the developers in the middle of their small municipality not to set up a large wind farm unexpectedly, just as they can get to the nearest centre without a private car to go to the pharmacy, family doctor, clothing store and cinema. However, it seems to me that the administrative reform has traditionally been buried. Even if this issue sometimes arises because the need for it is obvious, it seems merely a mouthful. There is no need for real action from the legislator, as it is understandable that this reform will also require unpleasant decisions, but it may make the vote yield from one or the other municipality weaker for at least one election period. However, I dare to assume that, in the long term, the implementation of administrative reform can be so beneficial to society that it can actually give more votes to those who carry out the reform. Both the countries that are significantly better off in our country and those that have not done as well as we do speak of the positive effects of the administrative reform. For example, in Denmark, which is more or less equal to us in terms of area, but 4.5 times larger in terms of population, the administrative reform took place in 2007, with almost 300 municipalities remaining 98. My Danish colleague has expressed the view that the reform went unexpectedly simply and has produced good results in terms of guaranteeing the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. The same has been confirmed by my Latvian colleagues on the reform in Latvia. I wouldn't speak any further on the subject of administrative reform here, because what is there to play the role of leierbox? All I am saying is that a lot of people's problems come before me are caused by the inability of local authorities to manage. In so doing, I have nothing to complain about these small municipalities with 500 inhabitants. They do as much as they can, within the limits of available capabilities and money. The regime is in the hands of national politicians and decision-makers, because the ultimate responsibility for the functioning of the public sector and for guaranteeing fundamental rights rests with the state. Continuing on the subject of decision-makers, I think it is quite quite appropriate to recall that the most important decisions in our country must be taken here in the Riigikogu. After all, we are parliamentary democracy according to the constitution: that is how the people decided in the referendum on the Constitution. The violation of the Constitution is when Parliament becomes a'mañana parliament', a place where there are no substantive debates, but merely entrusting decisions to the executive power, where there is indecisiveness, and where there is a release from responsibility. This pressure to reduce Parliament's role always exists, it is a common 'punch' between powers, and I ask you not to give in to this pressure. Parliamentary democracy is a fundamental constitutional value and must be respected in every situation, even in times of difficult recession. When you discussed the European Financial Stability Facility over the last night, the Minister for Finance tried to convince you that you would refrain from debating its terms and volume before any specific aid agreement was concluded. In other words, you were being sidelined by millions and possibly billions of euro decisions. (I would remind you that Estonia's 2012 budget is estimated at less than seven billion euros.) I have, as I know, also given my opinion in this procedure. I believe that the role of the Riigikogu in helping euro area countries in economic difficulties must be greater than merely deciding on the maximum possible amount of the general guarantee. I am pleased that you managed to change the so-called EFSF draft in a short time, so that the Riigikogu's role in deciding on the aid packages became considerably greater at first than what was proposed. It will continue to be a good thing to keep on the watch, and if you are content, you can easily lose your power. The negative development is not so-called bang-up, but still stealth and slip. One step that takes back its competence is followed by another. At the same time, the Constitution requires Estonia to remain in parliament to decide on important matters. Parliament must control the government, not the other way around. I will take a few examples from my own practice, which has shown that Parliament's action should be stronger. It is fair to say right away that, like the annual review that has been presented to you, this criticism largely applies to the previous parliamentary formations. I have great hope, actually, that those sitting in front of me can be decision-makers. Now to the examples that illustrate the fact that the Riigikogu does not, on many occasions, use the function conferred on it by the Constitution to be a decision-maker in important matters, but delegates decision-making to the government. In this case, if the government does not act, the Riigikogu itself will not do anything. This is the case with the charges for the handling of technical networks and installations. I proposed to the Riigikogu last summer, where I said that the rates of current fees are not in accordance with the Constitution, namely they are too low. The previous Riigikogu agreed with me. But nothing has changed in this area. Has there been an additional debate in the Riigikogu on what regulation should be in accordance with the Constitution for farm charges? No, it's not. The debates are held on newspaper columns by landowners and the Minister of Justice is also debating, in the summer of Eesti Ekspress, Maavaleht and Äripäev. Indeed, many landowners are affected by the ridiculously low rate of tolerance for technology networks and facilities. It has been about a year since my proposal, even a little more, but a draft has not been prepared to eliminate the constitutional situation, and you have not asked the Government of the Republic to do so either. In my opinion, the year is enough time for a very difficult legal problem to be resolved. It is wrong that Parliament accepts the continuation of the anti-constitutional situation. I have not yet gone to the Supreme Court on this issue because I have believed that Parliament understands the seriousness of the situation and solves the problem. Another example. As early as autumn 2009, I presented a report to the Riigikogu on the problem of rehabilitation services for children with addiction disorders. The Riigikogu committees agreed to the report and instructed the executive authorities to develop the appropriate regulation. It's still being developed. What has the Riigikogu done through the committees so that this problem can be solved and the will of the legislator is also done? Third, and given that the weather is getting colder and the snow is coming down soon, then the most topical example. In June 2010, I made a report to the Riigikogu on the availability of temporary shelter and asylum services for people without shelter. In particular, I pointed out that not all persons in need of assistance have access to temporary shelter and asylum services. I asked the Riigikogu to develop a temporary shelter and the provision of asylum services. Basically, the Riigikogu agreed with my proposal and instructed the Ministry of Social Affairs to prepare appropriate amendments to the Social Welfare Act. No such changes have been made either. Therefore, there is still confusion about the provision of temporary shelter and asylum services. On the basis of both the fees, the rehabilitation services and the temporary shelter service procedures, the question arises as to whether Parliament can do nothing to ensure that the executive powers comply with its decisions and requirements. In such a situation, should Parliament perhaps draw up the draft itself and then hold the parliamentary debate down? You have two options: force the government to work or draft itself. In any case, however, it is wrong that Parliament is simply watching as people's fundamental rights and freedoms are not guaranteed. I noticed from the work of the previous parliamentary term that Parliament does not even wish to debate matters concerning its own rights and is prepared to reduce the rights that should protect Members from possible arbitrary criminal charges. I am talking about the Institute of Immunity and its amendment on 1 September. a when amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure entered into force. Namely, the previous composition of the Riigikogu dealt at length with major amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure under the name of Bill No 599. They also amend Chapter 14 of the Procedural Code, which, as we know, concerns the drafting of an indictment and the special procedure for certain procedural procedures, in short, the immunity procedure. Until September of this year, the law provided that a senior state official protected by immunity, including a member of the Riigikogu, may be detained as a suspect, subject to a restraining order, carried out a search, seizure, observation and review only after obtaining the consent of the Riigikogu to draft an indictment. From 1 September s. a § 377 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the consent of the Chancellor of Justice as a prerequisite for the detention of a member of the Riigikogu and other high officials and for the application of a restraining order, the seizure and examination of property without the consent of the Riigikogu. There was no change described above in the original version of the draft. It is clear from the draft documents that the amendment was initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The explanatory memorandum merely states that the wording of the provision will be updated as the procedural steps listed are necessary in a pre-requisite phase where there is certainly not enough evidence to draw up the indictment and therefore the request for consent as an act of charge can even indirectly be regarded as a violation of the presumption of innocence. The updating of the provision is based on the principle that one level prior to the act, i.e. the removal of immunity, gives consent in the processual sense to the act, such as the arrest of a member of the Riigikogu. I could ironise that I thank you for your trust, that Parliament has delegated its exclusive competence in the field of immunity to one person, but this delegation is indeed highly questionable in the terms and in the spirit of the Constitution. In essence, immunity is lifted. In the wording of the Constitution, immunity is known to be immunity so that criminal liability is not assumed without the consent of the majority of the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu can now be arrested as a suspect by the regulation in force since the first day of last month without Parliament's decision, hopefully not without a judge's decision. The majority, both the coalition and the opposition, agreed to this change. 'Criminal liability only with the consent of the composition of the Riigikogu' is furnished by merely filing an indictment. The lack of this regulation, in addition to the so-called emptying of the nature of the immunity procedure, is also: 1) the Chancellor of Justice has been transformed into the maker of a binding decision, which conflicts with the nature of the Chancellor of Justice, the Chancellor of Justice never makes a binding decision; 2) there are no criteria in the law for the granting or refusal of such consent to a procedural act. Thus, the Riigikogu, without a public debate of substance, has rendered the integrity of one of the major institutions of the functioning of the parliament empty. If Parliament actually has the will to abandon the Institute of Inheritance as such, it is possible, but this can only happen by amending the Constitution. Of course, it must be preceded by a thorough debate, which is immunity. So far, we have seen this as a guarantee of the functioning of Parliament. Fortunately, all these examples of the passivity of the Riigikogu apply largely to the previous composition of the parliament. I hope, and I am also sure, that you will find the determination to be literally decision-makers and to show Estonia as a parliamentary state, where Parliament will exercise the rights conferred on it by the Constitution, debate and decide. Honourable elected representatives! I'm telling you, you're not going through an easy time, given the global economic situation. International publications, such as The Economist, are increasingly writing about the fact that economic power is moving eastwards from the Western world, and Western countries, including the Member States of the European Union, need to adapt to a situation where they are no longer dominant in the world. In the near future, it may be real that the West that ruled the world for two centuries may become dependent on China and India's loan money. At present, the European Union must fight for the euro to survive and for the euro-zone countries not to fall into a deep economic crisis. At the same time, I would not dramatise the situation, because European history is a history of constant crises. Moreover, Estonia has shown itself to be a rational and capable state, able to cope, even in difficult situations. In a situation of economic crisis, action should occasionally be taken very quickly and flexibly to prevent worse. As a result, there has been a debate across Europe on how much should be heard by Parliament when it comes to economic policy decisions and how many things should be left to the executive. Undoubtedly, government decision-making is faster, because then there will be no public, multi-round debate, there will be no troublesome issues for the opposition. In my opinion, however, such office-to-office decision-making in parliamentary democracy is not right and acceptable, all the more so as, at least in a small country, Parliament will be able to come together quickly if necessary and be flexible. On the basis of the EFSF draft procedure, I dare say that the government would certainly like to force you to play the role of spectator, co-clapper, on important economic and monetary policy issues in the future. I believe that the Minister of Finance will make many more speeches to the Riigikogu next year, where he will try to convince you in such a way of lack of interest and incompetence. I quote: 'It is absolutely impossible for us to make the Riigikogu a slave to the EFSF and an executive power who is always discussing the matter. He'd have a loan payment on the agenda every week. With all the competence that the Riigikogu has, it still does not have enough to do so. And the interest doesn't get too far, and soon the hall will be empty and everyone will be embarrassed. ' In a parliamentary state, the Riigikogu should have a say in important economic and financial matters, and I believe you have an interest in taking the floor. I stress that the people must also be able to decide, through their own elected representatives, how to deal with the economic crisis. The voters of the opposition parties must also be able to have a say. Estonia's economic situation and its sustainability is a matter for the whole nation and the people cannot be rejected by the argument that ministers have an unpleasant response to opposition politicians in the Riigikogu. The slowness of the parliamentary procedure in a small country is merely a word: the processing of the EFSF draft also showed that the Estonian Riigikogu can be very quick and effective. However, if you delegate to the government decisions on important financial issues, such as the granting of large guarantees and loans, you will also give up the possibility to decide for yourself on the revenue and expenditure of the national budgets for the coming years. Parliament could decide only a little in the future, because much of the money would have been planned by the government. Do you really want to give up the decision on the state's revenue and expenditure? The competence to plan the revenue and expenditure of the state given to the Riigikogu is one of the central elements of the parliamentary organisation, as the state budget allows the executive power of the Riigikogu to spend state money, thereby controlling the activities of the government and setting limits on it. I strongly advise you to keep your wallet. Finally, I note that important economic issues must be discussed by the large composition of the Riigikogu and not by any individual committee, such as the Committee on European Union Affairs. This is important because debates in this House receive media coverage and help people understand the content and importance of the issue to be decided. If the decision taken by the Riigikogu later requires large distributions that have a significant impact on the Estonian state budget, it is also easier for the people to understand why we need to start cutting our own domestic costs, such as the salaries of rescuers or teachers of general education schools. In a difficult economic situation, the people must be firmly involved in decision-making through their elected representatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U8	Thank you, Chancellor Indrek Teder! You've been asked a lot of questions. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U9	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You called for the Riigikogu not to be a rubber stamp. It was the Riigikogu that initiated the removal of this immunity provision. He proved that he wasn't a rubber stamp. But I have a specific question. In the discussions on the EFSF draft, it was clear that the commitments made there would go over the European Stability Mechanism and set out how this transition would take place when the stability mechanism was launched. During the procedure for the draft act, it was known that it would be launched in 2013, as stated in the draft explanatory memorandum. Now Europe has proposed that it be launched as early as 2012 and by members of our government...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U10	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U11	...has agreed to it. Is it necessary to amend the law adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U12	Thank you for your question. First of all, I will answer a question that was not asked about the immunity procedure. Indeed, Parliament itself initiated this amendment and put these provisions at the end of one major Code of Criminal Procedure, which are quite at the end. I pointed out that this was without discussion. But they didn't ask about it. As far as the EFSF is concerned, I don't know. There may be all kinds of unexpected events in the crisis. But my emphasis, as I have said at least a hundred times, is that Estonia is a parliamentary state and the Estonian Parliament has shown for almost 20 years that it is able to debate very complex issues and can also argue complex matters more clearly. Whatever this development is, it must be Parliament who decides on matters of particular importance. After all, the Constitution also explicitly states that the State is still a parliament, that is an explicit provision, and that is not a formality. Also, let's say, in this complicated process, the result of which we do not know, I think, this initial principle must be preserved. There may be different nuances in difficult situations, but the basic constitutional principles based on parliamentarianism must be maintained. After all, we have historical experience (I would not like to draw this parallel) when, in the long years preceding the war, Parliament was pushed into the background. We know what that led to. The answer is that Parliament's position as a decision-maker must in any case be maintained.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U13	Thank you. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U14	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I thank you for the encouragement you have repeatedly expressed to defend parliamentary decision-making powers. In part, these examples of weighty decisions that you have provided, where the negotiation was not sufficient, are probably really competent. But I am going a little bit in the other direction with my question and I am asking you this: should we also defend ourselves from an excessive, insignificant legislative initiative? The opinion that laws are being made too lightly in Estonia was recently expressed by a top lawyer. But I also noticed one half sentence in your written introduction. You say that in other ways, the justice mills keep grinding and regulating too much at times. Are you also prepared to explain something in the direction where we may have gone too far with the legislation and to change the laws too lightly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U15	Thank you! I stress that you always have to stick to the principles. Regulation of nuances can be a pleasant activity, but I also agree with many authors that it does not have to be a 'core' activity because it is not possible to regulate absolutely everything all the time in a changing society. That's what we've seen some other time. If we look at the Estonian laws on legal proceedings, they are extremely nuanced, but they could be much clearer and simpler. After all, the Estonian state is ready in terms of legal entity; there is no point in rewriting it all the time. If the law works, it's a tool. We're not replacing a working tool. In this sense, this legal entity is one very pragmatic thing; it is not just a puzzle of a crossword puzzle that is always forged by lawmakers. In that, I agree with the questioner that on the one hand, you might as well slow down. But you can't give up the original principles. In my few years of office, I have seen that this has sometimes been the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U16	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U17	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The ESM requires changes to the European Treaty and therefore there is no possibility that this topic will not come to the grand chamber of the Riigikogu. In that sense, I believe all fears are in vain. But my question concerns the capacity of the local authorities to which you devoted the start of your speech. Yesterday, the Minister of Regional Affairs declared Estonia the most capable municipality of one municipality, which doubles the debt burden imposed on municipalities by law. In the context of the European debt crisis, this is about Italy's level. This municipality has been doing this for several years in a row, and there is reason to believe that it is not by chance, but still quite consciously. Please tell me how such recognition can be assessed and whether compliance with the law and the conservative and correct handling of taxpayers' money could be a criterion for self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U18	Thank you! In fact, the 'paradox' between local governments and the state is enshrined in our constitution. On the one hand, Estonia is a unitary state; it is expressly stated. On the other hand, local authorities have been given very broad autonomy, including financial autonomy. At the same time, the state holds the purse and the government is responsible for ensuring that the state budget is balanced. To say the least, I think 2006 was the only year when the consolidated balance sheet of local governments was positive. Normally, the country's consolidated balance sheet, if I remember correctly, is always compensated. My view is that, financially, Estonia is a united state and that must also be taken into account. But as far as this ranking is concerned, it takes into account the financial capacity of the local government. Indeed, the practice is that larger municipalities in a certain form are more capable. But that doesn't mean there's no problem in these municipalities. Of course, rankings can be made on the basis of different starting points. As I pointed out, I deal with local government issues all the time. As I also said, if it really is not possible to reduce the number of local authorities, then perhaps it is possible that the state will take over certain very important functions. This has been done somewhat in the field of education, also in other areas. I am based on the fact that people's fundamental rights should still be guaranteed. Whether a particular guarantor is a local government or a state, it is a slightly secondary issue. This is a broader and general issue. But I deal with local government issues all the time. 226 is just such a large number that it is not possible to control the general legislation of all the municipalities at all, because the annual number of general acts is, by memory, about a few thousand. It is not real, not even if the Office of the Chancellor of Justice was several times larger. Consequently, something should be done to make public services more accessible to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U19	Thank you. Please, Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U20	Thank you very much, Mr President. My recognition to the Chancellor of Justice, who has not drawn the so-called front line of this hall in order to curse and rumble and proclaim the supreme truth, but he really urges us to find a way out together. I also ask in the key to the immunity of the MPs and that we are, as if, delegating an assessment to the Chancellor of Justice. To the extent that it is draconian in comparison with other European countries, have we set a precedent for this, or do we have such cases among our "fatemates"?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U21	Thank you! The essence of immunity is a historical legacy from one side, it's like a monarch's warranty. Estonia has so far not furnished it (and I think it does not, either) as an individual's privilege, as it is in some countries, that the MP, while being a Member of Parliament, cannot be absolutely blamed. Estonia has furnished it in some form in a more flexible way, it is a guarantee of parliamentary functioning, so that Parliament can decide whether, for some reason, the Member should be excluded from the decision-making process. Here exactly the same models cannot be brought in, every constitution is in some form different. In general, however, it is the power of the legislator; it is not given up. Why did I talk about this in my annual speech? First of all, it took place without a debate, undercover. I had a dialogue with the Commission and the Ministry of Justice on an expression that remained in the law: the Chancellor of Justice must also assess the political nature of the indictment from 1 September. It doesn't make any sense to me. That's what we had the discussion about. But the rest was such a secret gift, such a thing shouldn't be done. Of course, you can say that if the Chancellor of Justice sees shortcomings somewhere, then make a suggestion from the speaker. Maybe that's what I'm doing. I just haven't made it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U22	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U23	Thank you very much. Honourable performer! Your conclusions and the examples you brought today about the need for a greater role of the Riigikogu in controlling executive power are particularly accepted by the opposition representative one hundred percent. In theory, the whole coalition will agree. It is practically much more complicated, of course, because it is difficult to imagine that coalition parties, represented both in the top of the executive power, or in the government, and here in the Riigikogu, would not work hand in hand. That would even be kind of weird. The only option would be if there were more representatives of the civil society in this Chamber or if the power of the opposition was much greater. Would it be difficult to foresee this as a step in the right direction, because the voter will decide if the head of the Riigikogu would always be the representative of the opposition according to the Estonian political agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U24	Thank you! That is an interesting and intriguing question. You should decide where to draw the line. There must always be a challenger. We've seen in the history of the world that if there's no argument, the system will get out of hand. Where's the balance point? I'm sure that's a worthwhile question. Yes, there is always a very close connection between the members of the coalition and the government. The pure model is not realistic in the light of Estonia's historical experience. However, it must be borne in mind that the Member, no matter what, is a member of the coalition or opposition, is also responsible to the voters on his own behalf. He has a free mandate, as the Constitution says. In this sense, he is a separate institution, although the link between him and the government is strong. But the weight must not be such that the government is higher. It's a sense thing. Inevitably, there is always a "border" being defined between the branches of power and there is a certain tension that is necessary, but it must be a tense situation, one must not completely dominate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U25	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U26	Thank you, good manager. Thank you to the Chancellor of Justice for a very interesting presentation. I come back to the question of immunity, although you answered my question in some respects when you answered Mr Järvi's question. But still, we have no regulation, both how your organization should behave and how we should behave. If we are faced with a situation where the criminal fate of one or another member of the Riigikogu or another important member of the Riigikogu must be decided, what are your proposals? Which laws should we specifically look at, which law should we begin to change, is the law of the Chancellor of Justice, the same Code of Criminal Procedure again? What do you propose?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U27	Thank you! I think, first of all, that before such a fundamental change is made, it should still be a debate. The former wording gave clear meaning to the criminal liability laid down in the Constitution that if there is a very intense restriction of fundamental rights, which could hinder Parliament's work, it would go before Parliament. This principle has now been abandoned. Why, I don't know. Consequently, we should look again at what this chapter 14 means. It is such a way of saying a peculiar paragraph, and the Chancellor of Justice's position is quite strange there. I've always asked myself who this Chancellor of Justice is exactly. He's not a judge, a prosecutor, or a lawyer. He's not a criminal person at all. He's kind of an extra check. At the same time, we are a state with an independent judiciary. The court's ruling the law. It is a complicated issue, but I do not think that complicated issues should be resolved quickly. Moreover, other questions may arise. I did not mention in my speech that the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu ends with the entry into force of a conviction judgment. If someone has been arrested, how will he realise this free mandate, how will he vote, participate in the Commission's work? I don't know. So he's being escorted to this hall? I can't imagine. If there's some kind of questioning originally made, I'll call it that, it'll lead to all kinds of other problems, I hope, not in reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U28	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U29	Mr Chancellor of Justice! I also want to thank you for a very constructive presentation. My question concerns the written overview of your activities, which has been distributed to us. On page 25, it is stated that it is regrettable that the Ministry of Culture has not yet been able to develop a draft law amending the law on the cultural autonomy of a minority, even though the draft law was already foreseen in the work plan of the Ministry of Culture for 2008. During several previous review periods, the Chancellor of Justice has drawn the attention of the Minister of Culture to the fact that the current version of the Act on Cultural Independence of a Minority is too general and does not contain any specific grounds for refusing to grant permission to form a national list of minorities. At the same time, we know that the Ministry of Culture has used this general version and refused authorisation. The Ministry of Culture has not given you any explanation as to why, for three years now, the amendment of this law or the preparation of a new law has slowed down, or what can explain this and what are the intentions of the Ministry in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U30	Thank you! Unfortunately, I have not received any further information about this at the moment from the Ministry of Culture, but I can still ask what is the state of play of this procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U31	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will return to the issues of local governments and administrative reform with my question. That's for two reasons. First of all, you remained vague in your reply to Mr Rõivas, who had a very specific question of compliance with the law, in a particular case about the entry into the loan limits. Do you not think that this is a problem if local authorities exceed the permitted loan volume in some cases even several times? Second. In larger municipalities, tax receipts are really better. The ranking presented by Minister Kiisler was also headed by the rural municipalities around Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U33	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U34	Isn't there a greater risk of corruption in these municipalities and the desire to link up all kinds of construction contracts...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U35	Kalle Palling, please stop, 15 seconds is over time!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U36	...in the parishioners' business?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U37	Thank you! I just mentioned, when I was talking about local government, that public finances are one. The Constitution explicitly states that the state of Estonia is governed by law, and chapter 14 of the regulation of local governments states that the local government is governed by law. Of course, we all have to follow the law. It's elementary. If there's a rule of law, you have to follow it. Second, corruption. In my opinion, the risk of corruption does not depend on the size or small size of the local government. It's up to the people, it's up to the rules. There, I do not believe, can be found in one link so that larger local authorities are more corrupt than smaller. That would be quite an arbitrary position.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U38	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U39	Thank you. Thank you very much for your presentation. At the beginning of your presentation, you referred to a familiar situation where important fundamental decisions are not made or are not made with sufficient speed, because they require unpleasant'subdecisions' concerning many people. And the elections are, as always, very close. We also know, and this was clearly reflected in your presentation, that some fundamental decisions may prove unpopular simply because they are not sufficiently discussed with the people, there is little involvement and there is too little time left for inclusion and parliamentary debate. Both things are familiar. Can't the solution be that one election cycle or parliamentary cycle is longer than it is now and that the elections are never so dangerously close that important things are not done?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U40	Thank you! I think it makes sense that the electoral cycles are regular. We can see that elections in all democracies of the world will inevitably affect decision-making, but at the same time it is possible to make decisions that, in the near future, seem at first sight unpopular but far-off popular. I guess that's why we shouldn't change the election cycles. This may lead to some other problems that we cannot imagine at the moment. This is the basic principle and the simplest and most clear system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U41	Thank you. Please, Peter Kreitzberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U42	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The issue of immunity is undoubtedly of paramount importance; it concerns 101 people. The reception in Tallinn schools concerned thousands of children and even more parents. Have you now taken a clear position on whether it was done right or wrong and what should be done differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U43	Thank you for your question. I sent a letter of formal notice to Tallinn, where I pointed out that this regulation was not in accordance with the Constitution or the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. I also offered constructive advice in order to find a solution in this situation for about 4,000 children to be admitted to the school in their place of residence, given the three criteria laid down by the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, and that there would be no such emotional tension in society because, because parents put children in several schools at once, this situation was created, overburdened. I've sent a letter of formal notice to Tallinn. It was a few weeks ago, mid-September.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U44	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U45	Your Honor, Chancellor! You said that you would face many problems related to the inability of local authorities to manage. I would ask you to comment on your claim a little more broadly and to explain what problems would not exist if the administrative reform had been carried out. Personally, I would argue that when it comes to the quality of local governments' services or administrative capacity, for example, no one is prohibiting cross-border cooperation between municipalities and it is still being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U46	Thank you! One big issue is about children. It is quite common for a child defender to be a social worker, unable to get and able to do the job. At all, social work is something that, in small municipalities, can remain a little modest. This is the one place where I'm exposed to it. After all, there are other areas: organising public transport and everything else that is closest to people, as well as detailed planning. I am currently dealing with a specific procedure concerning the detailed planning of windmills. There are extremely complex issues, which must be resolved by local authorities not only by specialists but also by top specialists, but some municipalities simply lack this capacity. We have tried to train local government staff, but if the number of local governments is still so high, it may not be the desired result. For example, according to 2010 data, 226 of the municipalities had a higher-education rural municipality or city secretary in about 50%. I don't think that's enough. In this sense, it is a real problem that I have to deal with all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U47	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U48	I have a proposal to submit a draft law amending the Penal Code, the explanatory memorandum of which states that here, next to this blue-black-white flag, there is a transparent glass jar and every member of the Riigikogu or high-ranking dignitary who uses the expression 'the Riigikogu is not the thing', puts a hundred euros in that jar. In spring, when the session is over, the President of the Riigikogu Ene Ergma will take this jar and make a transfer to the Estonian Food Bank. What is the role of the Riigikogu, how we use it, how we use our opportunities, it is in our own hands. Let us not act ourselves in relation to this one material, comrades. Although this may not be the essence of the role of Chancellor of Justice, it has been sympathetic for me to have a preventive function, which means that the Chancellor of Justice will also be involved in dealing with certain drafts in order to avoid problems. As we see in real life, it's difficult to dim things into place. I think it has been useful that, in early cooperation, there has been one thing or another, a possible contradiction has been debated, and it has found its true nature in the law. As far as administrative reform is concerned, unfortunately, on the IRL side, we are still awaiting an opinion. As regards immunity proceedings, I think that, despite the lack of debate, all members of the Riigikogu, and especially the members of the Legal Affairs Committee at that time, were fully conscious when such changes were made. Yes, if we take it legaloretically, then, for example, when a member of the Riigikogu is arrested, the key question is the guarantee of the functioning of the parliament. But as individual members, we all have the opportunity to stand up for not applying this point. Thanks again! Our legislative work goes on!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U49	Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. Next, please speak to Deniss Borodichi! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for a very meaningful presentation. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice again had to make a critical assessment of the excessively rushed adoption of the drafts. Their implementation is often ignored, which in turn calls into question the quality of the laws and their suitability to provide the necessary solutions. Bad legislative practice is to quickly push through legislation, which, unfortunately, we see quite often in the Riigikogu. Let us recall here the unexpected rise in VAT, which was unconstitutional due to insufficient notice, or the recently agreed draft EFSF law in the government, which did not comply with the Estonian Constitution. It is equally bad to delay the adoption of the necessary amendments. The latter is illustrated by the issue of large state fees that have not yet been resolved. Since 2009, the rates of state fees in civil and administrative proceedings became fivefold. According to the Supreme Court, increasing state fees poses a serious risk to access to justice. If the amount of the state fee does not allow the person to exercise his or her rights in a court of law, this is a disproportionate and therefore an anti-constitutional state fee. Equal treatment and effective legal protection are guaranteed only if access to justice is made possible for all. In June of this year, the President of the Supreme Court stated in his review here in this very hall that justice may be as honest and fair as possible, but if recourse to court is hindered due to lack of money, the rights of persons will unfortunately remain unprotected. For a long time, the Chancellor of Justice has given the Supreme Court a number of opinions regarding unreasonablely high state fees. From the point of view of the rule of law, the right of recourse to the courts under § 15 of the Constitution is an essential fundamental right, to which the European Court of Human Rights has also drawn attention. Aren't high rates of state fees an increase in the hidden tax burden? However, the revenue of the State must primarily take the form of taxes, not state fees. The Centre Party has repeatedly initiated a legislative amendment to reduce state fees, but it has not yet received government support. At this point, the Chancellor of Justice's comment on the lack of legislative activity is fully justified. All we have to ask is why. It is good to note that the Chancellor of Justice is not going to give up on this issue and will continue to do so this year. In his review, the Chancellor of Justice has found that the slow resolution of local government problems poses serious difficulties in guaranteeing fundamental rights. It focuses here on the lack of sufficient authority of the official body, which means that they are unable to guarantee the quality of legislation and of the day-to-day administrative procedure. The Supreme Court's decision, which obliges the state to separate its responsibilities from the duties of local governments and accordingly to change the financing of liabilities, deserves attention. Thus, the Court states that, together with the obligations, the State must also provide the municipalities with money to comply with them. To date, this judgment has not been passed because the government has no will. However, it is a pleasure to note that the topic of local governments is still in the interest of the Chancellor of Justice this year, which is why we hope to obtain a more precise position from the Chancellor of Justice on, for example, the financing of the obligations of the state and local authorities. In his earlier proposal, the Chancellor of Justice has drawn the attention of the Riigikogu to the fact that the notification of a surveillance operation must be carried out in accordance with the Constitution and requires systematic monitoring. The Chancellor of Justice considers that the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Surveillance Act are contrary to the Constitution in so far as they do not provide for effective and systematic monitoring of the postponement of the notification of the surveillance operation and in so far as it allows the person not to be informed at all due to the postponement of the notification. Here too, the Centre Party Group has offered a solution to the problem by proposing a bill, but this week it remained unsupported by the Coalition in the Commission. It is extremely important for the Chancellor of Justice to fight this constitution's indiscretion unwavering. In addition, we believe that many other important issues that the Chancellor of Justice could and should analyse need to be addressed. According to the Constitution, schooling for school-age children is mandatory to the extent prescribed by law and is subject to tuition fees in general education schools of the state and local governments, but we are increasingly moving towards hidden paid education. We are talking here about school transport, educational materials, extra hours, school food, etc. According to the Constitution, the Chancellor of Justice is an independent official in his activities, so we expect him to draw more attention to the issues of society. In a difficult economic situation, where we are increasingly overshadowed by emigration, unemployment and child poverty, the responsibility and role of the Chancellor of Justice in society is growing. All the more so, we hope that the institution of the Chancellor of Justice will not be subject to day-to-day policy, but will no longer stand in the defence of the people in order to provide people with a sense of security so that either the urgency of the government or the shortcomings of their fundamental rights will not be violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U51	Thank you very much. Call chair, Rait Maruse, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U52	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Chancellor of Justice! In fulfilling his legal obligation, the Chancellor of Justice has presented to the Riigikogu a 132-page (with 169 pages of annexes) written overview and today's oral presentation. The written overview is a professional and neutral description of what has been done during the year and is a grateful reading for everyone who wants to get an overview of the activities of the Chancellor of Justice and his office and the current state of the Estonian legal system. Today's oral presentation was only a small choice of many problems. It included a critical look back on the activities of the previous Riigikogu, especially the omissions, as well as a few fingers to show how representatives of the people should work. As the Chancellor of Justice has positioned himself as a constructive critic of office, I leave open the issue of his degree of competence and intervention in day politics, particularly pro-active intervention. One might ask that, once the Chancellor of Justice has stated his views at the preliminary stage, whether he will still retain the objectivity and neutrality necessary to assess the constitutionality and legality of the work (i.e. the law or other decision), as required by his constitutional mission. However, this small objection does not render the Chancellor of Justice's attentionless. The Chancellor of Justice and his office have shown themselves to be a very professional and high-quality centre of legal analysis and competence whose work has helped everyone. In an attempt to generalise the concerns highlighted by the Chancellor of Justice, this is a concern for parliamentary democracy, the self-defining of the Riigikogu and the execution of decisions made. We've noticed that, and hopefully we'll do our best to correct things. Due to a lack of time, I do not consider it possible to analyse his individual expressions (examples) here. The issue of the balance and mutual control of legislative and executive powers is an evergreen issue of state governance and a battle continent. It is true that, in recent times, both in Europe and elsewhere, especially in the case of coalition and majority governments, the focus has moved towards executive power. On the one hand, it is understandable because it guarantees efficiency, competence and speed. On the other hand, it is in the interests of a balanced and stable democracy that important matters of state life are discussed at the political marketplace, in Parliament, where all views and arguments are represented, and then a decision is made. There is no such element in the (coalition) government, there is no such thing in the opposition government and there is no excessive public access, it is mediated, not directly as in the case of the legislator or the Riigikogu. I am not saying that for this reason government decisions are a priori wrong or bad, but they may be. I believe that we all agree that Estonia's centre of power must be the legislator, that is, the Riigikogu. The people have written it for us in the Constitution. The question is how to ensure it and better implement it. For 20 years, we have been moving in basically one bed of state law, and we have trampled quite deep ewes in it. Often we don't ask questions about why some things are so and others. Joining the European Union and becoming a player in its problems have pushed the exercise of power further towards the government. This leads to the idea that a critical analysis of the current state of law is not just a word or a slogan. The developing and adequate state must constantly analyse the state of its state and make necessary adjustments. Part of our current state of affairs lies in the Constitution, part of the transitional practice and part of the basic laws of the state institutions. We can quite be sure that there are still ways to improve the position and efficiency of the Riigikogu. These opportunities can only be carried out by the Riigikogu itself. If the Estonian economic and tax system has kept things up to date, this is not the case in the state order. This is where we've moved to the Jooksak, and we've gotten pretty stuck at times. For example, we are stuck with the administrative model created in the 1990s, the public service law is old and old, and the organisation and administration of the third power, that is, the administration and administration of the judicial authority, is not yet organised. All these are central areas for the exercise of public authority, which is why the Chancellor of Justice's attention should be considered to be very relevant. Our attention often focuses on individuals or problems, on details and the resulting overregulation, while statehood is a much more important and decisive system and procedure. There is certainly room to revive the work and role of the Riigikogu, in particular through the critical review of its Home and Working Procedures Act. There is certainly no justification in the Riigikogu for simply leaving the decisions made or unpleasant problems in the hands of the Riigikogu. I believe that the relevant committees have taken stock of the problems and omissions in their area and are taking them into their action plans. Not to be overlooked, too, is the fact that most of the work of the Chancellor of Justice has been involved in solving people's more everyday concerns, especially the role of the Chancellor of Justice on the Ombudsman's wing. This is necessary and welcome, because it is because the country is created by people and for people, not the other way around. The state must respect its own laws, as well as its promises. As liberals, we appreciate human freedom, but equally the protection of their rights and freedoms, including excessive economic and financial pressure. Then the country and its power will be held, believed in him. So is our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U53	Thank you very much. I'd like to report to Andres Anvelt's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U54	Madam President! I'm hoping to fit in five minutes. First of all, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice and his office for a critical report. It certainly led many of us to look there for what is important in his field. At the same time, I would like to argue with my good colleague Marko Pomerants, because this is a negotiation, as we call this procedure. Marko! I would not want to live in a country where Parliament does not make any mistakes or, in other words, the supervisor does not find any mistakes and where everything works suspiciously smoothly. This is what the Chancellor of Justice pointed out. That we often forget that we are a representative of a democratic state, where Parliament must play the role that is assigned to it by the Constitution or other laws. Otherwise, we'd rather move towards dictatorship. In the example of my family, I know it's not good: I still don't know where my grandfather's grave is. So we should all avoid moving towards the dictatorship and towards it. A very important point in the Chancellor of Justice's report was that the decision-making process would be forced to take us to the level of the executive and to make us as Parliament, using this modern word, the rubber stamp, the debate may only take place on the opposition side, and the coalition will confirm the decisions that have come from the government. That's a shame. I think that the coalition should also look itself in the face, perhaps boldly involve the opposition, and also bring opposition drafts to the debate in the committees, which do not confuse our fiscal policy. It must be considered important that recent policies, especially government policies, are taking us, including the oposits, away from the people. In a very simple area, even on this very issue of state fees, we are pushing the people into the Middle Ages, so that it is not actually possible for it to resolve its issues by means of a court of law. Yes, theoretically, formally, this option is, but essentially, it's complicated. Local authorities have become vassals, and their funding is not in proportion to the obligations imposed on them. Speaking of criminal proceedings, it has to be said that we have indeed heard the problems raised by both the Chancellor of Justice and the members of the Riigikogu concerning possible constitutional interferences in this very Chamber lately. We no longer live in the 1990s, we live in the second decade of the 21st century, we can say that we must not fear that if we defend citizens' rights, we may also defend the rights of so-called criminals and criminals in criminal proceedings. They're what the court calls them. Therefore, in essence, any changes to criminal proceedings must be read in order not to be in the situation we are in from 1 September, when we actually subtract our own authority by reducing the same immunity capacity given to a member of the Riigikogu. In summary, I would like to say that the reports of the Chancellor of Justice should affect us, members of the Riigikogu, like a cold shower, so that we can still understand that we run the country and that we do not have the right to give this function to anyone else, the executive. We have to make decisions. Thank you, and a good procedure for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U55	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, I haven't received any statements from the forced tenants lately. I think in my history that this problem has basically been solved. I will also answer the other side of the question: I do not intend to deal with this issue further.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U56	Thank you very much. We cannot negotiate any more, all the political groups have already sent their representatives to speak. We will stop dealing with this item. Thank you very much to Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U57	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Thank you very much for your 169-page review. My question concerns state fees, or rather, their size. What is your opinion: are many people currently being prevented from accessing legal aid due to high state fees and do you consider it appropriate to reduce state fees next year or now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U59	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Thank you very much for your presentation. In your speech, you touched on the relationship between the Riigikogu and the government and on the dialogue that is being held in this large hall. This dialogue often takes the form of questions and answers. Often, however, a member of the government makes a comment to the questioner, especially to the questioner on the opposition side, for example, that the question is not relevant or the questioner is not competent to ask the question. This is how a culture has developed that the questioner asks what he wants to ask, and the respondent answers what he wants to answer. The question is this: should we increase the profile of specialists in the Riigikogu in order for politicians to have better competent advice, or at least this would be an opportunity for the opposition, which may not have access to specific information as directly as the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U61	Thank you! Of course, the questioner asks what he wants, and the respondent cannot be forced to answer what would in any case please the questioner. However, when I answer the question to the other side, I say that, yes, I am of the opinion, I have expressed this opinion in private conversations and perhaps also in meetings with the political groups, that it is perfectly natural for the Estonian Parliament to go the same way as other parliaments in the world, that the Member has an advisor who will help to resolve all the issues related to the drafts in a professional way. It is very common in world practice that every Member has an advisor. This would improve the level of functioning of Parliament. However, if we look at how many of the previous Parliament's drafts were redrafted (I do not have the exact number in mind at the moment), for example, that was a pretty large number. It is wrong to claim that Parliament is doing nothing. At the same time, Parliament is more visible to society, and what is visible is also more criticised. It's an inevitability in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U62	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U63	Mr. Chancellor! That's the kind of thing, ESM. According to the judgment of the German Constitutional Court, the principle that countries are not liable for each other's debts is removed from the European Treaties. Germany can't go the other way. It is now proposed that this decision, which also concerns the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which you have spoken about, be reviewed in the Riigikogu in accordance with the procedure of ratification. It's one-two readings, squirt and ready. Would it suddenly be more rational to review the decision changing Estonia's Constitution and the conditions for Estonia's accession to Europe capitalically, even in the event of a better shortage, as an urgent question in the process of amending the Constitution? At least not as a ratification, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U64	Thank you for your question. The ESM is certainly such an extremely important issue that I will be dealing with in the future. I'm gonna start analyzing it. Secondly, I have repeatedly emphasised that, in general, I am not in favour of amending the Constitution. It would still be very exceptional. Whether such a question can be dealt with quickly, I doubt that. I think that the ESM theme should be one big subject of analysis in the future. There should not be very quick and cardinal decisions. Of course, Parliament's involvement in this is mandatory according to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U65	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U66	Thank you, Madam President. Good Chancellor of Justice! Thank you very much for a good and meaningful presentation. It would be very difficult not to agree with you. One of the issues you touched on was that people get unreasonablely low remuneration for the tolerance of technical installations. It's been up for a year, but nothing's been done. Could it be that someone even knowingly slows it down because it is actually someone's expense? Do these citizens have any hope of getting a fair reward afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U67	First of all, it is not the legislator's decision on how it determines this fair remuneration. Secondly, I remember that when it was discussed in the committees, the representatives of Eesti Energia and Elering said that even if this fee was increased, it would not affect them very much in the collection. This decision is likely to have gotten stuck in somewhere. Legally, it is extremely difficult to calculate it perfectly, but somewhere it must be a reasonable compromise so that the owners of the land under construction can still get a fair return. At present, this fee is so minimal that it does not cover land tax or postal costs, so it is not simply requested. It is essentially regarded as expropriation, as a disproportionate violation of § 32 of the Constitution. I therefore believe that, as it concerns the property rights of persons, this issue should be resolved in the near future, and if it is not resolved, I will have to appeal to the Supreme Court, which in 2004 made a decision which found the absence of remuneration to be in breach of the Constitution. Now there's the next level. If the reward is symbolic, I think it is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U68	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U69	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your presentation, you pointed out that a number of important drafts have been blocked in the social field. At the same time, these are issues where interested parties often have different sides of the barricade and it is very difficult for the Ministry to reach a consensus that is satisfactory to the various parties, or the lack of money is a problem. What do you suggest, how do you proceed in such a situation, so that in a year's time, if you give an overview, you do not point fingers at the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U70	Thank you! I think the Riigikogu committees could also demand some result from the ministry, after all, people want the result. I know that this issue of access to rehabilitation services from one area of work went very well, but this beautiful progress was extremely slow. If, in the meantime, it got stuck behind where to write this amendment into the law, so don't put it in our law, put it somewhere else, then I think it's a man-made glass Pearl game. It is important that it is regulated. You can argue about the carving of one norm forever, but the result must come. That is where I see the role of the Riigikogu's committee to demand and support the Ministry of Social Affairs with its request. I do not really want to criticise the Ministry because they still try rather hard, but they also solve the so-called current problems and some of the problems are put into a bigger bill, on the grounds that we will never solve it. For example, the Child Welfare Act, which I did not mention, is always somewhere in the process. But how long can it be done? You could lend out the good lawmakers of the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U71	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U72	Thank you, good manager. Your Honor, Chancellor! Thank you for your very meaningful presentation. You discussed the issue of local governments at the beginning of your presentation. It's a subject you can discuss for a long time. Perhaps administrative reform means not only an administrative-territorial approach, but also a revenue base and everything that is also linked to the regional level of self-government. My question is about rural governments. That's not what you've been talking about. It is known that public transport procurement, family doctor practice competitions have been withdrawn or taken away from rural governments in recent times, etc. Do you think that rural governments have a necessary and dignified place in the current Estonian administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U73	Thank you for your question. I must honestly admit that I have not done an analysis of the location of rural governments in the administrative model of the future Estonia. But as reality shows, their role is constantly decreasing or being reduced. I don't know what's going on in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U74	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U75	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. I have a question. Your report said that there are too many 226 municipalities in a small Estonian country. What is your opinion about the number of municipalities in Estonia or how many taxpayers should be in one municipality so that he can fulfil all his obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U76	Thank you! I do not want to say a specific figure now, because when the Chancellor of Justice states a figure, there should be a very clear and unambiguous methodology, a clear analysis. However, this number should be such that the municipality is able to guarantee the fundamental rights of individuals, it should be administratively capable. The public service must be available and, consequently, the municipality must have a good income base. Why am I criticizing this huge number? As we have seen many times, small, although good local authorities simply cannot hire specialists for many reasons. On the other hand, as I said, it is not real that the Chancellor of Justice, who is supposed to check the general legislation of the local government, would get a picture of the general legislation of 226 municipalities. It is simply not real, even if you decide that my budget will be five times higher. Then the question would be that it doesn't make sense. A small society must always choose precisely rational steps. On the one hand, administrative reform could take some form. As a second option, I suggested that, if the merger is so painful, the state could take over certain tasks to ensure the availability of the public service. But the Chancellor of Justice doesn't want to say a particular number here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U77	Thank you. Please, Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chancellor of Justice! You have pointed out in your review that you have also been working on school lunches. After all, the free payment for these so-called free lunches is not very different in different municipalities, there are differences in choices and the balance between the two sides: necessity and equal treatment. It's like all children are equal, but their families aren't equal. To what extent can the principle of equal treatment and the small amount of money that goes to school lunches be applied on an ad hoc basis in such a situation? There's a certain contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U79	Thank you! Yeah, there's a paradox here. If we take the principle of equal treatment, it can go a long way. Any circumstances which appear to be equal treatment under equal circumstances are not always the case. If you look at how this is happening in local governments, if in certain cases local autonomy is still in place, this picture is going to be extremely difficult. For example, in the birth grant decision, the Supreme Court found that the autonomy of local government is very wide. We have to take that into account. At the moment, the way the local government regulates it, it also dominates in certain cases. But it's awfully complicated, and if there are 226 units of these complex things, it's unfathomable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U80	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Good Chancellor of Justice! In your presentation, you congratulated Parliament on the swift, correct and wise decisions taken on the EFSF Framework Agreement. Parliament does not just have to make the right and quick decisions, although the people will certainly demand it from it, but Parliament must also be able to explain to the people why one or the other decision was made. From this point of view, did the Estonian Parliament do the right thing the week before last? Didn't he set it up? Today, several parliaments have not yet adopted this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U82	Thank you! Since the original draft decision was quite different from what was adopted, I also considered it constructive and right to recognise the honourable Parliament, not only to be a critic, but also, as I said, a constructive critic. However, there is, of course, room for improvement in this information and debate, because in Estonia the debate was launched in connection with this decision of the Riigikogu. This debate could have started much earlier, because the problems relating to the amount in question are enormous and concern and can affect every person. There's, yeah, definitely room for improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U83	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U84	Thank you. Chancellor of Justice! You are obsessed with the problems of old people's homes and equality, etc., but there is a large group of people who have not been paid attention at the moment or, actually, this issue is unresolved. These are the forced tenants who lost their homes in the course of the property reform. There are about 100,000 of them in our society. They were literally evicted from their homes and have been given nothing to replace them. You, too, have received a few letters from the tenants that you have responded to. I have this question: do you think that the state of Estonia, the government or the Riigikogu should continue to deal with this inequality, or do you intend to look further into this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U85	Thank you! Yeah, I think that's gonna stop you from going to court. I have made a report to the Riigikogu because the topic of reducing state fees is up, everyone acknowledges it, but the pace of solving the problem is too slow. Let me see if there is a need for a proposal in a particular area to come here to the speaker's desk. What is problematic about state fees? The question is that it is very easy to increase them, but to say that a particular amount is contrary to the Constitution is a bit complicated. I have offered a method of comparing state fees to standard of living with average wages. From the point of view of the so-called average defendant, this should not be too burdensome for a person. But in this form, yes, they're too big.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U86	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U87	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You have rightly advised the Riigikogu several times today to hold more debates and also to take into account the views of the opposition, you have said that they cannot be ignored. We've been trying to do that. Every member of the Centre Party has spoken in discussions on very important drafts. Your scheduled performance last week, too, was a week later. But the press has always said that the Centre Party is stalling. What are we going to do with this very good recommendation of yours anyway? For 20 years, this road roller has been pushed here. When do you think that discussing and discussing these issues could actually become more balanced?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U88	Thank you! I think this debate in Parliament is and will continue. At other times, participants may feel that it is useless, like pounding on a spot. But if we look at it for 20 years, both the coalition and the opposition have contributed to Estonia's development by examining concrete drafts. Yes, indeed, the public does not always understand that Parliament is one point of debate where things are being debated. The debate also takes place through the use of certain procedural rules; it is a real civilised fight. I think it's very important. As I have said many times, there is, on the one hand, the role of the coalition and, on the other hand, the role of the opposition, which is critical and must be, representing its constituents. However, I admit that this may not always be understandable to the public in a particular procedure, but then more should be explained. It's such an extremely difficult continuous job, which can sometimes cause boredom, but it's a real life. Real life is a struggle.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U89	Thank you. Please, Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You have analysed very thoroughly the regulation of the Constitution and the Public Transport Act. My question is about different fares, which have also been of great interest to the public. Ten months ago, you submitted a very comprehensive memo to the City Council of Tallinn. My question is: has the city council responded to the memo? Different fares for Tallinn public transport for Tallinn and non-Tallinn citizens, as well as other EU citizens, still apply. Have they answered you, that's one question. Secondly, if they have not responded, how long do you think the time will be for the general and individual acts of the city or municipality to be brought into conformity with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U91	Thank you! According to memory, I think that Tallinn has changed its public transport regulation in this respect, so it has been answered. After all, this topic, specifically on fares, was terribly complicated, where European Union law came in. Whether it is a single act or a general act, that is one issue. There are many other legal problems relating to this subject. However, yes, Tallinn amended this general act, its regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U92	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U93	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your annual review, you will once again bring in the traditional theme of how Estonia is moving step by step away from its promise in the Constitution that at least basic education is free of tuition fees and is sneaking towards paid education. What tools do you think the Riigikogu has to combat, for example, so-called compulsory donations, which are unfortunately quite common in schools? There's no tuition fee, but it's completely random that all parents donate the agreed amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U94	Yes, in the case of declining income, such issues in society will inevitably arise. The Constitution expressly provides for free education. I think sneaking payback is a problem. However, if parents really want to support voluntarily, there is no question, but if this pressure gets massive, there is indeed a limit somewhere. The question arises: If, under social or community pressure, a parent is forced to pay at any cost, it must be felt. It is difficult and difficult to sense, because supporting a school in one area is a free right for people. But where do you draw the line? Here's a good recipe, frankly, no giving. But if it is clear in a particular case that people are forced to do so, it is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U95	No further questions. Thank you, Chancellor Indrek Teder! I'm opening negotiations. First, please speak to Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U96	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office, colleagues, Chancellor of Justice. First of all, I would like to thank you for your presentation and its quality. I've often said, "Give me a hundred men," and I'll do it alone. In the role of the Chancellor of Justice, it is probably fair to say that the entire Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, with its 41 people, had to contribute in order to ensure that all these procedures were carried out. In the Riigikogu, there are reasons to talk about the quality of the Riigikogu's own work. If we look at the statistics for 2008, 2009 and 2010, we can see that in recent years, 2009 and 2010, there has been one such draft every year where the Chancellor of Justice has been forced to say that one or the other shear should be brought into line with the Constitution. Is that a little or a lot? The ideal would, of course, be zero. The question is how do these contradictions arise in this law. But it would certainly be interesting for some law students to do research on the topic 'The emergence of conflicting legal provisions in the laws adopted by the Riigikogu and the problem of eliminating these contradictions'. Now about the role or nature of the Riigikogu at all. My colleague, Marika Tuus, recently gave us an idea that this is a branch of AS Eesti Teed, where the road roller as such is the main means of production. A good number of colleagues and high esteemed dignitaries in this Chamber very often mention one tool. This tool is on Lembit Kaljuvee's desk. It says Lembit Kaljuvee's name on it, and it puts it on paper. You, Chancellor of Justice, used the term'mañana-Parliament' today. I have a proposal... I'm taking extra time right now, just in case!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U97	The second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related other laws initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I would like to present a speech chair to Igor Gräzini, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U98	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs examined this draft and decided to refer it to second reading by consensus. The Commission's consensual proposal is to conclude the second reading. I'll just add one thing. One comment or one amendment that is here is made in connection with the entry into force, but it is linked to the fact that this thing moved forward. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U99	No questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Igor Gräzin! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will examine the table of amendments. For the 75th draft, the commission has tabled one amendment and it has been fully taken into account. We have examined the table of amendments. Since the commission has proposed to stop the second reading of the draft 75, the second reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related other laws initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U100	Today's third item is the first reading of draft Act 61 amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. As a result of the illness of Yana Toom, a member of the Central Party Group, Viktor Vassilyev has been appointed rapporteur by 61 political groups. Viktor Vassilyev, speaking chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U101	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with a bill of 61, called the 'Law amending the Law on Ravikindlustus'. This is a little specific, to some extent, about health care and, to some extent, about health insurance. I don't know how many of you have read the proposal to amend the law, as well as the explanatory statement, but I've done it with appropriate attention, and I got it pretty well. I'm also trying to explain to you that it makes sense to everyone. First of all, it is proposed to amend the Health Insurance Act, according to which Paragraph 5 (2) (5) is worded as follows: 'a person who receives employment or service charges under a debt-law contract for the provision of a service with a term of more than three months or an indefinite duration, who is not entered in the register of business as a self-employed person and for whom the other party to the social tax contract is obliged to pay monthly social contributions on the basis of Paragraph 9 (1) (2) of the Social Tax Act at least for the financial year, calculated from the monthly rate established by the State budget, or for whom the monthly social tax has been paid in aggregate terms at least for the financial year, calculated on the basis of the monthly rate established by the state budget. ' That's the text. Actually, it's pretty simple. So far, there were arrangements for the employer to pay social security contributions when a person is employed, in whatever form he or she has been contracted, and if that rate has been calculated for the financial year from the monthly rate laid down by the state budget, i.e. the minimum wage, the person is therefore considered to be insured. As you all know, theoretically, hardly practically, the minimum wage is EUR 278.02 and the social tax calculated on it is EUR 92. If 92 euros is covered by social security, the person is insured. However, there is not even enough work in Estonia for everyone at the moment for which the minimum wage would be paid. Some people work under a debt-law contract, whether for the provision of employment or for the provision of services or other services, but in any case they are legally employed. He or she shall, by any contract, receive a piece of remuneration which is less than the minimum wage, and each piece of it shall be subject to a social tax which shall be less than that calculated at least for the financial year from the rate of the monthly levy imposed by the State budget. Maybe every part is below the minimum, but all together is considerably higher than that. However, such a person is not considered to be cured. So if there are several jobs where everyone receives a salary below the minimum, although the amount of all these salaries may be significantly higher than the minimum, each job also pays a social tax which is below the minimum, all taxes together may be higher, then the person, although he may be doing a job in the heap from morning to evening, does not have any health insurance. That's what I'd say, an unfair situation. All this is due to the fact that social contributions received under different contracts are not aggregated in accordance with the current legal order. Although I think it's work, it's done in one chair or several chairs. Several employers are still paying social tax for the person and if the sum of these amounts exceeds the corresponding minimum, then you could sum it up. A person has worked, worked hard, and should have the right to treat himself on the same basis as other people. This is the first change that the Group of the Centre Party will put before you. The second amendment is § 2, which states that this Act will enter into force on 1 January 2012. It's simple and understandable. Just as with any proper bill, there is an explanatory statement here. The explanatory memorandum is in front of you, and I believe that many of you have, however, taken a look at the explanatory statement. This shows that the draft concerns perhaps up to 83882 people who do not have health insurance. Of course, not all of them work with small parts of contracts with several employers, but there are still quite a few people whose social contributions could be aggregated. After all, people must have equal opportunities to take care of their health, regardless of their socio-economic status, their education, ethnicity or other affiliation. Everyone we live here is human. And the sickness doesn't ask about nationality or religion. Medical chorphs do not always know what sickness comes from, many of them do not even come as punishment for their own sins, but for the sins of our parents, which we are not to blame for. So, in any case, we consider it reasonable to have arrangements where social tax paid by different employers could be aggregated. The adoption of such a law requires a majority of votes in favour. I think we're all reasonable people here. All of us have relatives and acquaintances who do not work as directors of a company or chairman of the board, and among our relatives and acquaintances are people who get a little bit here and a little bit there. In fact, it was not regulated by law that social contributions received from different employers would not be aggregated, even within a logic. It was hoped that people would organize their lives and incomes in such a way that they would formalise themselves as self-employed, and then it would be as if everything were okay. You know, not everyone wants to be self-employed. This requires a person to be entrepreneurial. What we're going to do here is: self-employed is still self-employed, but not the unhappy person who is forced to do part-time cleaning work here and be a half-time wardrobe lady. What kind of entrepreneur is he? Why does he have to be self-employed, fill out a lot of documents, declarations and anything else? Everyone doesn't know how to do that. To be honest, I can't imagine that I should become a self-employed person, I just don't want to deal with all this complicated paperwork. The explanatory memorandum contains a chapter such as 'Content of the draft and comparative analysis'. This part of the explanatory memorandum is also quite relevant, as we have seen repeatedly in the explanatory notes of various draft laws. There has been some repetition of what I have already mentioned, i.e. that the draft consists of two sections, the first extending the circle of insured persons and the second determining the date of entry into force of the law. Yes, there is also reference to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Everything must be based on the Constitution. Under § 28 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to health protection. However, the current situation is unequal. There are people who fulfil all their obligations to the state and society, work legally, on the basis of contracts, pay all taxes, but the state does not give them what they would expect from the state. This unequal situation should be made rational, this inequality must be eliminated so that people have a level playing field. So, as I have already said, § 2 of the Bill provides for the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2012. In my opinion, nothing prevents this law from coming into force on 1 January 2012. By the way, the faster the better. The deadline, i.e. 1 January, is October, November and December. During this year, many people may get sick. You know, the flu season's coming up. The weather and climate in Estonia are exactly what they are, Greece, by the way, nothing compares. So we should make sure that people who, God forbid, get sick can, like a law-abiding person, still take the sick list and heal themselves for the health insurance money. The explanatory memorandum shall also contain a chapter entitled 'The terminology of the draft and compliance with European Union law'. There are no new terms here, and the amendments to the draft are fully in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and European Union law. Now chapter 'The effects of the Law and the costs necessary for implementation'. The effect of the law is, of course, to eliminate the unequal situation that people are treated equally, regardless of whether they work in one or more jobs, as long as they work hard. As far as spending is concerned, it is a law that does not require any expenditure. No, it does not, because if a person works in several small jobs with several parts of the contract, he or she will be paid for the social tax and the money will be entirely there. That money is there, he's in the health fund's budget, except for some reason it's not used to treat people. What this money is used for, we don't know, and I wouldn't be poking that question right now. Let us not touch on this issue now, we are still talking about people's health and that the costs of restoring health should be borne by the health insurance fund. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also submitted a position on the draft. The Ministry of Social Affairs has done quite a good analysis, for which I thank the good officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs. They have certain doubts. After all, doubt is always useful, because if anyone has doubts and doubts, it provides an opportunity to think things through and formulate things more accurately, which will benefit the law and, of course, all those people whose fate, whose health, whose course of life depends on that law. The Ministry of Social Affairs writes that the regulation laid down in the draft is not fully designed and implemented, as it does not contain proposals for an implementing scheme for a legislative amendment. To a certain extent, the Ministry of Social Affairs must be given credit. The point is that the Riigikogu is a legislative body, we establish a law, and the law then gives the Ministry of Social Affairs the power to draw up the necessary implementing provisions, the necessary implementing mechanisms. Three or four of the 26 members of the Central Party Group worked more closely on this draft, because they are better informed about this issue, and the Social Affairs Committee discussed the matter in full. However, there are hundreds of officials working in the Ministry of Social Affairs whose professional work is to set up applications. These are the people I know, I know a lot of them, I've worked at the Ministry of Social Affairs for two and a half years, they're very good officials, they've been trained appropriately. I dare all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to assure you that the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs are perfectly capable of drafting the implementing provisions of the law. Here it is written that the basis, duration and conditions of interruption of insurance cover could be further specified. With all due respect to ourselves as a member of the Riigikogu and, of course, to you as members of the Riigikogu, I fear that we will still not be able to develop such precise applications as those with conditions, criteria, control mechanisms, etc. Let it be done by specialists, each of them to do his own work. But the good officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, at least, have worked on the law and already found out about the problems they have to deal with when the law comes into force. The opinion also states that it has to be worked out, and I underlined the appropriate additions to the tax return forms and the procedures for filling them in. I don't know if there's anyone in this room who can develop tax return forms and procedures for filling them in. If you really leave the work of a member of the Riigikogu aside and sit for a week, then yes, it does, but I'm sorry, it's not our job. The drafters of the bill have spoken to each other, and I am not going to read the entire explanatory statement to you, that would be foolish, you are literate people, that it is known how people are taking fewer and fewer sick copies. First, people do not want to take the sick list because the first three days are on their own and then 80% of the salary is paid. In addition, people are also a little afraid that if the master, the goddamn capitalist and the bloodsucker gets the chance to lay off places or whatever else, he'll try to get rid of those who have filed more sick leaves. People are afraid to take sick leave. As a doctor, I dare assure you that during the old days of counseling, a few others came to the doctor, brought cognac and chocolate and grabbed something else in their pockets, and asked, "Dear Doctor, can't we get a sick leave for three days?" Now they come up with a different story, they bring a cognac and a can of candy, they crab something in their pockets and they say, "Doc, can't we just get off the sick list?" That's a joke, of course. But that's the way it is, people don't dare take the sick list. The Ministry of Social Affairs confirms that our data is not correct, that according to the report, the intake of sick leave has increased in the first quarter of 2011. You know, it's such a small movement, depending on the year, whether it's colder or warmer, but it's definitely narrowed since 2008. I am not going to read all these tables here, which the good group advisers have printed out to me, they will find on the page of the Health Insurance Fund to waste your time unnecessarily. The law is necessary, people expect it. Your constituents will certainly thank you if you do your job appropriately and vote in favour of this law. I hope you will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U102	Thank you very much, Viktor Vassiliev, for using your 20 minutes so rationally and for not reading to us the explanatory statement of the law. Now you've been asked questions. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U103	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! You spoke very emotionally and meaningfully about the content of the bill and said what the Ministry thought. But you did not say anything about what the Commission thought was the Commission's debate and what the views of the Members of the Commission were.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U104	Thank you. By the way, there was a very constructive debate in the Commission and, as I recall, the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs were there. I think, however, that much more specifically, you will be told about the Commission's position and how the position developed, the President of the Social Affairs Committee, whose presentation will follow immediately after I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U105	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have this feeling that something important didn't count, because the 20 minutes promised by the rule were too fast. I'm asking you, if you want to read something more, then after that question, you can do it. I'm serious!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U107	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U108	Thank you. No, I am not going to look after this question in our Rules of Procedure for additional talk. Just in answer to your question, good colleague, I say again and I am not ashamed to repeat it: the current legal order leaves precisely those people who, in the current economic situation, are trying to do their utmost to maintain our economy, to do everything in order for society to function, and to find a way to work on a short day here, a short one. We have to thank these people, they're decent workers and workwomen! By adopting this amendment, we support these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U109	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U110	Thank you. Good performer! The coalition has decided to vote out this necessary and very good draft from the procedure. However, we do not see any questions coming from that side of the room to learn more about this draft. Maybe you really didn't have time to tell me everything. But do you think, in the light of the Chancellor of Justice's presentation today, that the right side of the hall, and Marko Pomerants, couldn't we, too, be above the daily level and vote in favour of this good bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U111	I think that Mr Pomerants, a good colleague, will certainly draw his own conclusions from what has been heard in this Chamber today. Personally, with great respect for the Chancellor of Justice, I do not want him to go repeatedly to urge us not to do our work with the necessary commitment and proper attention. I think the people have chosen us here, and the people are waiting, whether we sit on one side of the hall or on the other, to take care of him. So I think it would make sense for all of us to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U112	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U113	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm glad you brought the voter and the people into the game. I am the elected ambassador of the country, and my constituents did not understand what you were saying because you spoke so much. Would you be nice to repeat briefly and specifically what this law really changes for my voter? What does my voter win from this law? But speak briefly and specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U114	Thank you. Good voters in the country and the city! The point of the bill is this: if a person currently works in several places and receives less than the minimum wage in each of them, then he is not insured, if we now change the law, then those who work in several places will also be treated in every place below the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U115	An extraordinarily short answer. No more questions for you. Thank you, Viktor Vassilyev. Next comes Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr Vassilyev is the person who always brings sun to the daily hard work of the Social Affairs Committee, and so it was on Tuesday, 27 September, when the Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Central Party Group 61. I am not going to explain the bill for a long time because the previous speaker did so with great thoroughness. I can say that there was a very substantive debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. Counsellor of the Health Department Kristina-Valeria Nõgols was present at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I can say that the idea of this bill is very correct; this problem really exists. On behalf of the coalition, I can confirm, and it also sounded at the Social Affairs Committee meeting that the government was working on it. This is also the point in the coalition agreement. An official of the Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed that a working group has already been convened at the Ministry of Culture to prepare the Creative Persons Act. Officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs are involved in this working group, and we agreed that our committee will be involved in the work of the working group in the future. According to the government's agenda, this bill should be completed by the end of this year. So I hope he gets here as soon as possible to the debate in the Riigikogu Chamber. What led to the proposal not to stop reading the bill was that this work is a bit more extensive. This draft does not cover all the problems of debt-law contracts and the ensuing lack of health insurance. Similarly, the problem must be approached from a tax-law point of view, so that it is not possible to implement a legislative amendment, one might say, fraud schemes. In this sense, the work will be a little more meaningful, this draft will be more extensive and complex, but I would also like to emphasise here that the problem raised by the Centre Party is real. Indeed, there are people working under debt-law contracts in Estonia for a shorter period than three months, they are subject to social tax, but they are not covered by health insurance. It is clear that this unfair situation must be eliminated. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to send the draft to its first reading on 11 October 2011 with a proposal not to complete the first reading. It was supported by six and against five members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U117	Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! You have questions. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U118	Thank you. Honourable performer! Your speech was such a typical explanation that has been sounded in this Chamber by the coalition against the opposition for about 20 years: a very good bill, but we cannot accept it, because we will do the bill ourselves, and after a while we will come up with it. But that's what we're used to. However, I did not understand at all what this issue had to do with the Ministry of Culture. It's about the same thing that the Department of Defense is building us statues. Would you explain what this committee means, which you intend to play a strong part in? We were talking mainly about cleaners and non-workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U119	Thank you, good questioner! The question is very right in this respect, that it is primarily a social issue with regard to health insurance. However, the analysis shows that in real situations, those who are exposed to this problem are mostly creative. Therefore, in its action plan, the government has put the preparation of this law there, in addition to the problem of health insurance, a number of other problems, namely that of the Ministry of Culture. However, the Ministry of Social Affairs has also been involved in this work, precisely on those issues that concern, for example, the same specific health insurance. In the government, the Ministry of Culture prepares it, involving the Ministry of Social Affairs and now the Social Affairs Committee. And I really hope this whole bill gets here quickly. This problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U120	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, When it happened 10-12 years ago that the opposition came up with some draft, the idea of which was intended by the government, it was usually done that it was not voted out of the procedure, it was just waiting for the government's draft to come, and then the drafts were put together. Democracy in the country only won. Haven't you seen such a fundamental opportunity at all? After all, you yourself pointed out that the problem is very important; it needs to be resolved. If the government knows that one bill is waiting for the other to come to the end, they will at least start working at a faster pace. Why do you always, when our thoughts go in parallel, make some kind of perpendiary from one parallel future direction? Why can't we connect in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U122	Thank you, good questioner! As the history of our Riigikogu shows, different drafts have indeed been dealt with differently. This Riigikogu and the Social Affairs Committee have also left the drafts that came from the opposition in the process. This bill is, how I say, a broader preparation of the bill for artists. In addition, there are a number of operational tax issues. This bill, which is coming from the government, is considerably more extensive than what is currently being dealt with. I think it is a purely practical proposal, not a political one, not to stop reading the draft today, but to move forward with a 'complex solution'. So there is no point in looking for any political bickering in this particular case. I would rather, as I have said many times, acknowledge the behaviour of the Centre Party Group that they have brought this issue to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Surely there is also one argument that we can all use together to make the government prepare this draft more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U123	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! Being out of health insurance is actually quite a serious problem for a person. Would it make more sense not only to rely on the creative person's law, but to have the Commission analyse today's situation with representatives of the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs and determine how many people are currently left without health insurance? I would point out that our own colleagues, who, for example, finished their work in the Riigikogu in March, also missed out on insurance at some point. This is a ridiculous situation! The Commission should come to the Chamber with a report that analyses today's situation. In my opinion, this is a matter of national importance and could be dealt with on Thursday after the Commission has analysed the relevant conclusions and ideas. Do you think it would be worth discussing in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U125	Thank you, good questioner! This particular issue was not discussed in this form by the Commission, but I think that there is a significant number of people who are currently in the Republic of Estonia without health insurance. Although medical care is guaranteed to all persons when these are really urgent and exceptional cases, we must clearly move towards fewer people without health insurance, and solving the problem of these people is definitely one step in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U126	Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U127	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. A good waitress, who will represent the Commission on this draft, and will also deal with the issue in general! I would like to proceed in the same direction as my colleague has just finished. Mr Juul touched on this issue more broadly, in fact we are talking about over 80,000 people in Estonia. I am not asking if, but I am asking when, in the Committee on Social Affairs, you intend to deal with this very painful issue more widely. What are the reasons why people are not covered by the health insurance fund and how can the situation be alleviated? When it comes to emergency medical care, I believe you have had enough contact with the issue of medical care, and you know that emergency medical care is the most expensive in healthcare. So this is certainly not the solution to go to an ambulance reception, which we see quite often during periods of illness, for example. So the question is: when will you do this, including the subject we are discussing today?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U128	Thank you, good questioner! One of the first meetings of this Social Committee was precisely with the representatives of the Health Insurance Fund, and this was one of the issues that was upstairs. That's right, emergency medicine is the most expensive. We are not only talking here about whether or not people have health insurance, but we are also talking about real money numbers. In any case, it is more useful for the state if as many people as possible are covered by health insurance, it would be aid that is received systematically, not at the last minute. As I said, these steps are also foreseen in the government's agenda, and the same draft is part of what will certainly help further. I am hoping here for your constructive cooperation and understanding that when the bill for the Creative Act arrives here, it will certainly also solve the specific problem that the Central Party Group has brought to this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U129	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! From what I understand, the Ministry of Culture has taken on the task formulated by your committee. But I'd like to be more specific. How long will it take for the Ministry of Culture to come up with this draft, this year, next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U131	Thank you, good questioner! The Ministry of Culture has already dealt with this before the draft we are currently debating, as this problem is specifically stated in the Government's Action Plan. The government's action plan is a document that plans the government's action. It says in the fourth quarter of this year that the preparation of the draft should be completed. I hope that this draft will be discussed by our Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U132	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are tens of thousands of people waiting for our decision. The law can be dealt with for a very long and very long time. As long as we're throwing this thing between one ministry and another, all these people are still without health insurance. Please think about it and support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U134	Thank you. If it is already so far away, there was certainly a discussion in the Commission as to how much or what percentage of the 80,000 affected by this bill are cultural or creative workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U135	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft Act 61 amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 61. Please take a stand and vote. 43 votes to 35, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft Act 61 amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U136	This particular part of the Commission was not mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U137	Today's fourth item is the first reading of § 222 of the Social Welfare Act, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft Act on Supplementation to Social Welfare Act § 222, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. The draft has been drawn up with the aim of keeping child benefit and income support under the State Family Benefits Act separate, in other words, ensuring that child benefit reaches every family. This is the second attempt by the Social Democratic Party Group to ensure that universal child support reaches the children of the families who need it most, also to children living in deep poverty. We initiated a similar draft in the previous Riigikogu in 2009. At that time, the right-wing majority of the Social Affairs Committee sneaked our proposal into thin air. It didn't make it to the big hall at second reading. The government also put a hand on the Socialist amendment at the time, making it an excuse for taking away people, that is to say, from their mother and father, not to look for work, in a situation where we had more than 100,000 unemployed. Last week, the vote in the Committee on Social Affairs showed the continued unwillingness of the government union to assist families with children who are facing difficulties. The justification for the government's non-supporting position had changed this time. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Until 2005, the child benefit paid under the State Family Benefits Act was not taken into account when determining income support. From then on, it is considered to be a earning income for those in deep poverty, not for those on high wages. The change at the time was accompanied by an increase in income support from 500 kroons to 750 kroons, and one of the reasons for the change was the desire to stimulate people to look for work and to act actively, not to live on subsidies. Now, six years later, the situation is quite different and I would like to ask how the call for activity in the ears of tens of thousands who have been trying to find a job for a long time or in families where a parent, mostly a mother, raises children alone. For example, I bring a single parent raising two children. He receives a minimum wage of EUR 278. If you deduct taxes and add twice EUR 19 in child support, each of us in this Chamber will understand that this family is living in labor poverty. Mom works, but the family still has to apply for some sort of income support to make ends meet. And there are many such families in Estonia. The situation is also no better in families where one parent is unemployed, the other receives low wages and children are raised. A few weeks ago, I asked our Prime Minister what he would buy for a child at 19 euros in Question Time in the Riigikogu. In answer, "What do I say now? It would be sad if he had only that EUR 19, but if you multiply it by three, there wouldn't be much less sadness. I would say, after your question or your long introduction, that the efficiency of using public money increased exponentially after the Social Democrats left the coalition. This is a fact which is also confirmed by statistics. In the Human Development Report, Estonia has also been repeatedly criticised for the fact that our share of social expenditure as a percentage of GDP remains below the average level of the European Union. ' It is true that, after the Social Democrats left the government, 450 kroon school allowance was sacrificed one after another at the beginning of the school year, the tax-free income of the father or mother on the first child, the partial cancellation of the parent's student loan, the care allowance for the sick child, the sickness allowance was reduced from 100% to 80% of the salary. I wonder if that was the idea of making more efficient use of public money? In addition to the complaints made in the Human Development Report, an in-depth analysis of the Estonian social programmes published by the OECD in May 2010 showed that the small amount of money that is allocated to social benefits is reaching the pockets of people who are quite well-off instead of those who really need help. Five of the richest groups of people will receive 59% of all taxpayers' money to support families, while statistics show that the majority of children are growing in five of the poorest groups. Social benefits in the EU Member States average 27% of GDP, 12.5% in Estonia. 'If there were no parental benefit, the total amount of social benefits would be very small,' said Praxis's Labour and Social Policy Analyst Andres Võrk. The network agrees with OECD analysts that there could be more revenue redistribution in Estonia, then there would be more for the poorer. Children's benefits have been set on fire in the cropping cuisine, comparing them to the same kind of money being thrown off the plane. The state child support is said to be a smearing of this kind of thought that we have heard from high officials over and over again when the government is looking for an area where to pull together again. However, I do not know that any of these spokespersons would have given up their children's allowance with easy hands. This EUR 19 will not be deducted from either the minister's or the banker's salary, nor will the parental benefit be paid less to those who receive it at the maximum rate. Instead, this sum is added to the amount of the parental salary of EUR 2157 per month. However, there is one category of people who are already virtually deprived of child benefit, and these are the ones who need it most, in particular, the applicants for income support. Yes, indeed, they receive child support, but it counts as income in need of help, which means that less income support is received. Thus, state family benefits in the Republic of Estonia are only for those who can handle themselves, let the weakest of them wipe their mouths clean. To put an end to this absurdity, the Group of the Social Democratic Party has initiated this draft. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us not forget that family benefits are universal benefits, which means that children of both wealthy and needy families are entitled to support. Raising children will inevitably entail costs for all families, a small part of which the state has taken up. Families with children have been the most vulnerable population of all time, as shown by statistics. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In a small country, a raging race for material goods has created huge scissors between children growing in the city and the countryside, successful children and children in need of livelihood. This inequality has been exacerbated by the economic downturn. Estonia has achieved the status of one of the most unequal countries in the European Union. The difference between our richest and poorest incomes is almost fivefold. The first member of a family receiving income support must cope with 76 euros and 70 cents per month, each next family member 61 euros and 36 cents per month, which must be available for the purchase of essential food, clothing, footwear and other goods and services. The draft aims to mitigate the growing inequalities and conflicting appreciation that will break the whole of society. The fact that the income support limit has fallen behind in time is far too small to cope in an emergency and does not meet the requirements of the Social Charter is still a problem in itself. Statistics Estonia's latest data (from 2009) take into account the one-member household's minimum livelihood, in other words the limit of absolute poverty at 170 euros, of which 75 euros 29 cents is spent on food. A little bit of statistics, too. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, in September this year there were 6021 children receiving income support. A few words about the cost of implementing the law. If child benefit is not included in income support, the cost of income support will increase to EUR 186000 per month. As the draft is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2012, the draft act would cost over EUR 2 million in additional income support if it came into force in 2012. It is important that the implementation of the law reduces social inequalities by ending a situation where universal family benefits do not essentially reach low-income families. Dear Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft initiated by the Social Democratic Party. This would be a small but vital step to alleviate poverty in families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U139	Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act supplementing § 222 of the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, at the meeting of the Commission on 27 September 2011. The draft law was presented by Commissioner Heljo Pikhof as the representative of the initiator. The purpose of the draft is to separate child benefit and income support under the State Family Benefits Act. The Government of the Republic decided not to support the bill and the reasons for not supporting it were introduced by Marek Atonen, an analyst of the Social Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Social Affairs Committee decided to propose to send bill 62 to the first reading of the plenary hall of the Riigikogu on 11 October 2011 with a proposal not to finish the first reading. There were 6 members of the Commission in favour, with 0 abstentions. The debate was substantive and emotional. Just like the waitress brought me here, I'm talking about Heljo Pikhof, there's a lot of arguments why we should do all this. These included child benefits and all kinds of other social benefits. The government has given a negative position to a similar proposal to amend the law in the past, and the government's position today was also negative. A number of reasons have been given. One fundamental reason was that income support is a means of alleviating poverty and is paid when a person is unable to obtain sufficient means of subsistence for himself and his or her family through work or other sources, in particular social security benefits (pensions, parental benefits, family benefits, sickness and unemployment benefits). The purpose of social security benefits is to prevent families from entering poverty. However, if they do not ensure success, income support is the last safety net. The income limit is the same for all families. As you know, the government and all of us here decided, at the end of last year, to increase the subsistence limit by one fifth when discussing the state budget for this year, despite difficult economic circumstances. We can say that we have also tried together here to resolve this issue, which concerns the real livelihood of families and people. It was also pointed out that the draft also envisages real expenditure from the state budget. The government agreed that the initiators' calculations on the cost of this draft were correct, which is an additional cost of EUR 2,232 million. The government has not foreseen this kind of money in the state budget strategy. As far as I am aware, this additional expenditure is not foreseen in the draft state budget for next year either. So there are also purely financial reasons when we are talking about the entry into force of this draft next year. As I said, the Commission decided not to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U141	Thank you. Heljo Pikhofil is a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U142	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Would you repeat how the vote in the Commission ended? Something was wrong here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U143	The Commission's protocol, which has been proposed to me, says: it was proposed to send bill 62 to the first reading of the plenary chamber of the Riigikogu on 11 October 2011 with a proposal not to finish the first reading. By 6, against 0, with 0 abstentions. That's what the protocol says.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U144	If necessary, the speaker can specify this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U145	I really need to clarify that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U146	Next question. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U147	I have a slightly more substantive question. You read that someone has sent a letter to the Social Affairs Committee as if the purpose of family benefits was to prevent families from falling into poverty. Who was the fool who sent that letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U148	Good questioner, the ratings are on your side. I read a paragraph from the government's point of view on this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U149	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U150	Thank you, Madam President. Looks like you're just reading things out here tonight. I think the members of the coalition were there, and the vote was quite different, against 5 and for 6, as we usually do. I don't want to read it in the zero protocol. After all, the second thing about the state budget has only been brought to the Riigikogu. I think the Committee on Social Affairs certainly has a role to play, and this 2 million we could find to help children in families who are struggling.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U151	Thank you, good questioner! As far as the protocol is concerned, we are really going to clarify this: we also have a verbatim report of the sittings in the Committee on Social Affairs. That's what we can do. As for the debate on the state budget, this passionate activity is still ahead of the Riigikogu this year. The draft has been given to the Riigikogu proceedings. Here we can certainly hear different views and see the solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U152	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U153	Thank you. Here's the second question. I know you as a good and conscientious ambassador. I know that you have now become familiar with Estonian social policy laws since you reached high station. Would you be so kind as to repeat what is stated in the Family Benefits Act, which is the purpose of family benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U154	Thank you, good questioner! I am now enlightening the debate on this particular draft that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. So we can still talk about all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U155	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U156	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! You said that the subsistence limit in Estonia is 1,200 kroons now, speaking in kroons, and you have raised it, that it is even a big step forward. It's for the first family member, and for the second family member, it's even lower. My question is: do you really think that 1,200 kroons per month for the first family member can be dealt with? In fact, studies confirm and also suggest that this amount could be 2,000 kroons per first family member. If you do not agree that child benefit is not deducted from income support, maybe you are ready to raise your income limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U157	Thank you, good questioner! As you know, we raised our subsistence limit from the beginning of this year. If we are talking about the financial opportunities that the country has in the social field and also in various forms of support, then we need to give a thorough consideration to where to contribute these funds. Perhaps targeted grants concerning families with children, single mothers, are the most appropriate and efficient way to use this money. Rather, in addition to universal subsidies, these measures should be looked at, which would better reach specific beneficiaries and help resolve specific situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U158	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U159	Honourable performer! Last time, income support was raised when the press screamed a lot and when I had to starve for a month on the proposal of the portal Delfi. Hence my question: would it be necessary to take another month's hunger strike in order to increase the income support again?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U160	I don't think these strikes are gonna get us far.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U161	Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U162	Good performer! Once again, do you think that the current 1200 kroons per month of income support for the first family member is enough to cope?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U163	I think it still helps to cope when a family has a job. That's the vessel. We are talking about these exceptional cases. All social benefits could always be higher, but we must be guided by real opportunities. I repeat once again that, when we are talking about the income support limit, even at a very difficult time, we raised the income support limit by one fifth. There could always be a more positive direction, but this step is done.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U164	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U165	Thank you. I think, good waitress, you started out very nicely, you said families would be able to cope if they had a job. Today we are talking about what should help them to cope when there is no job and we are trying to understand whether the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee has understood the meaning of the Child Support Act. Can you still tell us what the meaning of child support is? What does the law provide?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U166	I'm not going to read you the text of the law. When we talk about child support, the aim is precisely to support children and the raising of a child.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U167	Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U168	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Recently, we are hearing more and more from the representatives of the coalition committees that the draft is being rejected because the government does not support it. How do these things now work in purely national law, who should comply with whose decisions and how is this decision of yours in line with today's report by the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U169	Thank you, good questioner! As you have heard, I have presented to you the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and the decision of the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been taken in accordance with our Rules of Procedure Act, other laws of the Republic of Estonia, as well as the Constitution. So I am here specifically representing the position of the Social Affairs Committee and, as you well know, the Riigikogu committees also ask for the position of the Government of the Republic on drafts. I think it is fair that I present these views here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U170	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U171	Thank you. Why do you think that the first reading of all such good drafts will always be closed before the elections, and then they will simply be put to a halt, but after the elections they will all be brutally voted out of procedure and the coalition party will not even bother to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U172	Thank you, good questioner! In the Committee on Social Affairs, we did not approach the draft from this point of view. We did not have such a debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U173	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U174	Thank you. I understand that in the Committee on Social Affairs, you believe that the same has happened, that there were no votes against. Actually, it was. Then why do we make it look like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U175	Thank you, good questioner! I was just following the protocol that I have. As I said before, we will certainly be clarifying this, because there is also a verbatim for the Social Committee sitting. So maybe it's a technical problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U176	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. We're opening negotiations. Call chair to Heljo Pikhof, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U177	Madam President! What am I saying? The purpose of family benefits is to partially compensate for the costs of raising children and the subsistence allowance is still to be paid in the event of family failure. There are two separate laws about them. If it was the case until 2005 that child support was not included in the income of the income when calculating income support, then I think that the same could now be done. The very funny thing is that the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee doesn't remember voting. It would have been very strange if the Social Democrats were against bringing the bill to the hall. If the chairman of the committee says here about the results of the vote that the six voted the same way and the others did not have a position, then I do not think we can stop working on the draft today. The Chairman of the Social Committee must convene the committee again and check the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U178	Thank you. Next, please speak to Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to say that we are pleased that the Social Democrats have once again taken up this vital issue, so that public family benefits are not included in income when determining income support. The Centre Party Group has also done so repeatedly and has also tabled drafts on this. Our approach to solving the problem has perhaps been a little wider, but we have one main point: we need to change the basis for calculating income support. However, in addition to the fact that child benefit is not counted as part of the family's income for the purposes of calculating income support, which deprives beneficiaries of income support of child benefit, we have wished that the family's income does not include, for example, the remuneration received for public work and the allowances paid to those who are repressed. It has also been our principle that the limit of living, which, according to the current Social Tax Act, the Riigikogu establishes for each financial year, would be laid down in the Social Welfare Act. This would also allow matters relating to income support to be resolved separately from the state budget, so this important issue would not be obscured in the face of other issues. Changing the basis for calculating income support is now very important, as the number of people and families receiving income support was still relatively low a few years ago, due to high unemployment, the increase in long-term unemployment and the worsening of poverty, the payment of income support has multiplied. We have cities where it has grown by 430%. Studies show that families with children have been one of the most vulnerable groups of the population ever, and we have unfortunately done everything to prevent "risk" families from receiving this child benefit or child benefit and income support at the same time. Just so we're clear, there's an example. If the family receives a child benefit of EUR 38.36 for two children and the family has no other income, the amount of income support paid is less than the amount of child benefit if the family had no income of any kind. As a justification, the Minister responds that greater support demotivates people to seek income or earn that living in grants is a harmful activity at all. The Minister also considers that a subsistence allowance of EUR 76,70 per first member of the family is sufficient to satisfy the immediate needs. I wonder why we couldn't do again as it was before the 3R government in its own time, Res Publica, the Reform Party and the People's League changed it. Until 2005, child benefit was not included in this rate in the calculation of income support, after which child benefit was, for some reason, regarded as a earned income, and this is the case to this day. However, there are facts about the need for both support. We know that almost half of the families of the unemployed are at risk of poverty. We have a three-fold population in the last four years, living below the poverty line, reaching about 20% of the population. The level of living is falling, the population is impoverishing, our real wages have fallen for nearly three years in a row, inflation has been the largest in the euro area for a long time. But yes, in the Prime Minister's opinion, the 19-euro child allowance is one single slash at all and, as you already know, the mocking of money on the plane. It is strange, in fact, that the wealthier receive child support... Can I have a minute and a half more?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U180	One and a half more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U181	...and nothing is deducted from their wages. However, those who apply for income support will lose this money. I keep repeating the same old principle that you see it being taken from where nothing is taken. It sounds proud that in the light of our constitution, families with children and families with children are under special care, but in reality we see something else entirely. A year ago, Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee at the time, said that family benefits should also be examined quickly and quickly. His words were: 'I firmly believe that the Ministry intends to take account, without delay, of the socio-economic situation that has developed so far and to come up with changes. If we look at the real numbers, the current state of affairs just doesn't allow us to stretch too much. " These were his words, but you will see that they have all proved to be empty promises. Better half of the hall, you can make up for these embarrassing promises today by voting together with the Centre Party and the Social Democrats in favour of this draft, which we have always supported. Vote to ensure that, apart from middle class and wealthy families, they also receive child support from low-income families! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-10-11_U182	Thank you very much. No further speeches have been registered. That concludes the negotiations and concludes today's session. This item will not be dealt with, we will proceed tomorrow. Have a nice day! Closure of the sitting at 1.04 p.m.
