ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Good Riigikogu! Due to the end of the term of office of member of the Riigikogu Mikhail Kõlvart, he was appointed as a member of Tallinn City Government from the beginning of the year. from 8 April, Tarmo Tamm, an alternate member of the Riigikogu. The following is a pleasant opportunity for us to hear the oath of office of a new member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-11_U2	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-11_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, I invite the representative of the Government of the Republic, Mr Aivar Rahno.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-11_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today: the First draft law amending the Securities Market Act and other laws related thereto, the Government being represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, and the Second draft law amending the Commercial Code and other laws related thereto. The Government is represented by Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice, when this bill is being processed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-11_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-11_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I will pass on two inquiries. The content of the enquiries is one, but the questions are different. First of all, an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. As of 1 January 2013, the Coalition Agreement allows the abolition of land tax on land in densely populated areas up to 1500 square metres and up to 2 hectares in scattered areas. The reduction in the tax revenue of the central government will only be allowed from 2015. As we know, Estonia has already ratified the European Charter for Local Government in 1994 committed itself to ensuring an adequate income base for local government to carry out the tasks assigned to them by law, without imposing any additional conditions. Also, from the beginning of last year, 16 March 2010, we have the Supreme Court ruling No 3-4-1-8-09 on uncertainty about the delimitation of national and local functions with regard to local governments. The judgment of the Court recognises that it is contrary to the Constitution not to issue legislative acts which would lay down which obligations imposed by law on a local authority are self-governing and which are state-owned. We have put eight questions to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip in our inquiry. An analogous question, where there are three questions, is also submitted by our group to Auditor General Mihkel Oviir. We want to know how he appreciates the capacity of government in this context. Secondly, to what extent does it consider that, in such a situation, local authorities are guaranteed the possibility of fulfilling the obligations imposed on them by law? And thirdly, does Mihkel Oviir consider the delay in the execution of the judgment to be justified and necessary in this case? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-11_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. If enquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them to the addressee immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a lot of messages now. The Board of the Riigikogu has registered members of the Riigikogu Maret Maripuu and Paul-Eerik Rummo as members of the Estonian Reform Party. The Board of the Riigikogu has approved the compositions of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu. The Board of the Riigikogu has distributed the seats of the European Union Affairs Committee among the political groups. The Board of the Riigikogu has approved the composition of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has approved the following changes in the composition of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu: first, as Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of Tõnis Lukas, member of the Riigikogu, and as Vice-Chair of the Committee on Culture of the Aadu Black Cultural Commission of the Member of the Riigikogu; third, as Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Member of the Riigikogu, and Vice-Chair of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Aivar Koka, member of the Riigikogu; fourth, as Chairman of the Economic Commission of Kaja Kallas, member of the Riigikogu, and Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission of Urve Palo, member of the Riigikogu, fifth, as Chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, and Vice-Chairman of the Constitutional Committee of Deniss Borodichi; sixth, Chairman of the Monetary Commission of the Riigikogu Sester and Member of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Committee of the Parliament of the RiigikoguTüsa , member of theRiigikogu. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Estonian Central Party Group. a draft law on the amendment of the State Assets Act, initiated on 6 April, commission of the Economic Commission; secondly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a Draft Act amending § 48 of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 7 April, commission of the Finance Committee; thirdly, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. a Draft Law on the Useful Model Act, Patent Act, Fundamentals of Industrial Property Law Organisation Act and Amendment of State Fees Act, Steering Committee of Economic Affairs; Fourthly, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Vocational Training Institution Act and Private Schools Act initiated on 7 April, Senior Committee on Culture; Fifthly, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. a Draft Act on State Liability, initiated on 7 April, Leading Commission, Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 17 March Estonia presented its views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the use of PNR data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious criminal offences, on the European Union Affairs Commission and on the position and draft of the Government of the Republic for the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 April 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has been forwarded by the Government of the Republic s. a On 7 April, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's Green Paper on modernising the European Union's public procurement policy and improving the European procurement market, on the European Union's Affairs Commission, and on the position and communication of the Government of the Republic for the opinion of the Economic Commission. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. April 14th at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 7 April Estonia submitted its views on a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Community Borders Code and the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, to the Committee on European Union Affairs, and having appointed the Constitutional Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 April 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 7 April Estonia submitted its views on the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning amendments to the European Union Directives concerning the interconnection of central, commercial or company registers, the Commission for European Union Affairs and appointed the Legal Committee to deliver an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 20 April 2010 at 4 p.m. Last Thursday, the Homekandi Support Group, the Sustainable Energy Support Group and the Estonian-Armenia, Estonia-China, Estonia-Japan, Estonia-United Kingdom, Estonia-Czech Republic and the Estonian-US Parliamentary Group were formed. Today, after the plenary session, the following parliamentary groups will meet in this Chamber: Estonia-Slovakia; Estonia-Austria, Estonia-Poland and Estonia-Russia. Dear Riigikogu! Today, immediately after the end of the session, the meeting of the Association for Heritage Protection, the Association of Islands, the Envoy Group of South-East Estonia and the Ida-Virumaa Envoy Group will take place in this Chamber. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 94 delegates registered as present, no 7. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have to confirm the agenda. The draft agenda will be on your desks and I will put this agenda to the vote. Please vote! 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, one against and one abstention. The agenda is confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is usually scheduled to answer questions on Monday. There was no agreement today on the questioning and, therefore, everyone will have the opportunity to sign up after my hammer strike to speak in a free microphone. Please! There's no call. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.14 p.m.
