ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-12_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the second working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, congratulations to everyone who has taken up the duties of a member of the Riigikogu! In order for us to be able to move ahead with the substantive work right away, the Central Party Group will pass a draft law amending the law on state fees. As we know, during the great recession, the legislator introduced new state fees, which have very strongly hampered people's ability to go to court for legal protection. We have all read in the media opinions and assessments that the recession is retreating, that life is getting better for everyone and that more money is coming into the state's wallet. We think it's time to review the state fees. They're all supposed to be humiliated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-04-12_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill. If the bill complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide on the procedure within three working days. Please, let's do the presence check! 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11. Now the messages. The Board of the Riigikogu has registered a member of the Tarmo Tamme Estonian Central Party as a member of the Group. The Board of the Riigikogu has approved a member of the Constitutional Committee of Tarmo Tamme, a member of the Riigikogu. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has approved Taavi Rõivas as Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs and Marianne Mikko, Member of the Riigikogu as Vice-Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the inquiries submitted yesterday to the Prime Minister and the Auditor General. Wednesday, s. The following members of government will attend Question Time on 13 April: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler. Yesterday, an association of islands was formed in the Riigikogu, a group of supporters from Setomaa and Ida-Virumaa and a parliamentary group from Estonia and Slovakia, Estonia and Austria, Estonia and Estonia and Russia. Today, after the plenary session has ended, meetings will be held in this Chamber for the establishment of the Estonian-Australia and New Zealand, Estonia-Ireland and the Estonian-Azerbaijan parliamentary group. Dear Riigikogu! Today, after the end of the session, meetings will be held in this Chamber for the establishment of the Space Research, Defence Union, Nuclear Power Plant, Civil Society and Mulgimaa Support Group and the South-East Estonia Envoy Group. Ladies and gentlemen, As there are no items on the agenda, I wish you all a successful job. Closure of the sitting at 10.04 a.m.
