ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I will refer the inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U3	Sorry, waitress! Good Riigikogu! We already have a performer on the remote! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U4	The subject of questioning is the management of families with children and child poverty. It has become a sad fact that there has been an increase in the number of people living below the living limit. While over 59500 applications for income support were granted by the state throughout the year in 2008, more than 90000 were granted in the first half of this year alone. What happens by the end of the year, I cannot tell you now, because the prices of almost all home expenses have risen and seasonal work has ended. According to Prax, the Centre for Policy Studies, the financial support for families with children increased mainly only in 2004-2009, while the percentage of family benefits has continued to decrease. We have a number of questions for the Minister. What measures is the Ministry planning below to improve the absolute poverty line and the lives of children living in deep poverty? When will public family benefits be increased? How likely does the Minister consider it to be to restore the National Program "Every Child's Kindergarten Place"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 14 December, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U6	On Thursday of last week, we did not discuss the draft law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. The negotiations have been concluded. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the 110 draft at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Let's get to the voting procedure. I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject bill 110. Please take a stand and vote. For 49 members of the Riigikogu, 38 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Bill 110 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U7	We will go to the next item on the agenda. To this end, there is an overview of the state of R &amp; D and government policies in this area. Before we go to the debate, let me give you a brief overview of how we will carry it out. The rapporteur is Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The Prime Minister's presentation lasts up to 30 minutes, following questions to the rapporteur, then there are negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Ladies and gentlemen, As this is the last week of this session, and today we have a busy working schedule, and in addition to having guests from outside the Riigikogu called as rapporteurs for the next item in the debate, the proposal is that we limit this item to 30 minutes in the round of questions and answers, so we can also calmly discuss the next item on the agenda. I would like to present the speech chair to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! When giving an overview of the state of research and development in the previous Riigikogu, I stressed the importance of conservative macroeconomic policy, quality education and research and innovation as a source of competitiveness of the Estonian economy and new growth. We have also continued and increased investment in education, research and innovation during the economic crisis, just as the long-term strategy of the Riigikogu and the government has foreseen. Increased R &amp; D spending, increasing exports, improving productivity and new foreign investment are not the result of good luck or randomity but of consistent activities. The Estonian economy is moving towards structural changes. Statistics confirm that the value added per employee in the manufacturing industry has doubled over the last six years. According to Eurostat, productivity per employee in Estonia has increased to 69.3% of the European Union average. Above all, this is the result of the rapid development of recent years. In a difficult economic situation, sectors with higher added value have been better adaptors. The index of production volumes in these sectors exceeded already high levels in 2008 by more than 50% in the second quarter. I can assure the Skeptics that the improvement is clearly visible even without the contribution of the electronics industry. At the same time, the output index for medium and lower value added sectors is fluctuating at pre-crisis levels. Similar patterns apply to employment, exports and profits. A processing industry that creates high added value is how we can mitigate the risks associated with the turbulence in the external environment and increase Estonia's competitiveness on foreign markets. In the first nine months of the year, exports have increased to EUR 8.9 billion. This is almost EUR 200 million more than the total exports last year and almost EUR 500 million more than in 2008. The share of exports in GDP is again at 70%. All of this confirms that the Estonian economy is moving on the highway of structural change and the tough decisions made in the years of the crisis have proved right. Honourable Riigikogu! Investing in R &amp; D in both the public and private sectors is a guarantee of Estonia's competitiveness. The increase in R &amp; D volume in 2010 is expected. The nominal volume of total expenditure at 232.8 million euros is the largest ever, increasing expenditure to 1.63% of GDP. By comparison, R &amp; D investment accounted for 1.43% of GDP in 2009. Of last year's investments, 18% of total investment and 32% of the growth in private sector development will bring Estonia much closer to the developed industrialised countries. For the first time, expenditure on companies and non-profit sectors is equal, slightly above 0.81% of GDP. A significant part of last year's growth was provided by the oil industry, but this cannot be considered bad news. In all countries with a high level of development, the most classic strong industries contribute to spending. Energy is undoubtedly one of those in Estonia. Rather, we can say with certainty that the decisions taken in the economic crisis to increase public R &amp; D investment helped to provide the basis for the growth of private sector development. State-funded development expenditure in the business sector increased by a third, from EUR 9.7 million in 2009 to EUR 13 million in 2010. However, we cannot be satisfied yet. In a transnational comparison, we are still lagging behind Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Germany. Strong support for R &amp; D and innovation must continue in order to achieve the target set in the competitiveness plan "Estonia 2020" and the government action programme: to increase R &amp; D investment to 2% of GDP by 2015 and to reach 3% of GDP by 2020. Of this, 2% should be part of the private sector. This is our main task in the coming years. On the basis of the latest economic forecasts, this would mean total R &amp; D expenditure of at least EUR 800 million in 2020. This is about 3.5 times as much as it is now. Public budget expenditure is important for increasing R &amp; D expenditure. State funding accounts for 79% of public expenditure and 11% of private expenditure. In recent years, public funding has increased to 1% of GDP in 2012. This volume is close to the level of developed industrialised countries and should therefore remain the same in the future. Good results have ensured that the "Knowledge-Based Estonia" strategy is implemented in a determined manner. In 2013, the seven-year strategy ends. It is already appropriate to evaluate the implementation of the strategy and to start discussions on the selection of new orientations and funding priorities. The analysis of experience has begun. Estonian and European top experts will evaluate the government's activities so far. Under the leadership of researchers at the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology, Estonia's research and innovation policy monitoring programme has been launched. The ERA Committee assesses the Estonian R &amp; D system. Looking at the results achieved so far, we can be sure that Estonia's strategy is correct. The economic environment has changed significantly since 2007: the R &amp; I environment is high and the economic structure is changing. The focus of investment is clearer than in the previous strategy. The strategy identifies priority key technologies (information and communication technologies, biotechnology, materials technologies) and key areas (energy, defence and security, health and environmental protection). National programmes have been launched or launched in these areas. The government's primary objective is to strengthen these programmes. At the same time, we must maintain a well-functioning competitive and quality-based financing model for research funding. The state cannot name very narrow priority areas. This would directly limit the self-realisation and business opportunities of Estonian researchers and companies and cut off opportunities in many new emerging areas. It would be a risk that, if realised, would take away everything we've worked for. Dear listeners, There are also areas for developing research and innovation where we can act in a more thoughtful way. The most important of these are to ensure that research continues to grow and to support development and innovation more meaningfully. We need to focus funding on larger projects and create a wider environment that is more supportive of innovation. The main keywords for the next funding period should be people and quality. The new generation of engineers and top specialists must become the cornerstone of the sustainability of the changed economic structure. The number of researchers and engineers has increased faster than planned in the strategy, and in 2010 there were 1 000 people employed 7.1. But growth must continue. In 2015, about 1,500 scientists and engineers should work in Estonia more than they do now. This must not be maximum; this objective must be understood as a minimum. A university whose studies are mostly limited to a bachelor's degree does not allow the foundation to be laid for a strong scientific community. The fact that we have a higher share of graduates than the European Union average is overshadowed by the fact that we have only 0.8 PhD graduates aged 25 to 35 per 1000 inhabitants. During the current academic year, the number of doctoral graduates for the first time will increase to nearly 250, and last year there were 175. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of doctoral studies is low. As of the end of 2010, nearly 3000 doctoral students studied at Estonian universities. Between 2002 and 2006, less than 40% of those enrolled in doctoral studies completed an estimated period of four years. Increasing the volume of private R &amp; D investment means increasing demand for skilled human resources in business. More attention needs to be paid to the commitment to studies, to increasing the attractiveness of the research system and to improving the mobility of the scientific community. We need to find new incentives to involve top international researchers in doctoral studies and research projects and to increase the mobility of researchers and doctoral students, especially in their private sector. Making the status of doctoral students more attractive was resolved by amendments to the law on the organisation of research and development approved by the Riigikogu at the beginning of the year. Since the 2012 admission, doctoral candidates can take up contract work as junior researchers if they wish. This increases the motivation of doctoral students, as there is a specific basis for determining the university's responsibilities under the supervision of doctoral thesis, as well as improving the material certainty of doctoral students and increasing social guarantees. Secondly, as an important amendment to the same law, I consider the organisation of national funding instruments for science to be appropriate. In 2012, the Estonian Research Council will be launched, with the creation of which will improve the efficiency, quality, monitoring and organisation of research. This brings me to the second topic of focused attention, i.e. support and funding for innovation. The keywords of a suitable innovation model for Estonia are demand-driven development, an effective and effective innovation environment created by the state, favourable access to risk capital and successful commercialisation of the results of research. We need to strengthen the link between resources and results directed towards research and innovation. The annual growth rate of innovation indicators in Estonia is above high 5%. It guarantees us a place among the six fastest developing countries, but does not allow a higher 14th place in the European Innovation Scoreboard. In recent years, we have remained firmly behind the innovation leaders in the second'strength group', and we must work to increase the economic impact of innovation outputs in order to move forward from there. A small number of patents is an example of one permanent bottleneck. In order to trigger change, more attention needs to be paid to the development of real public infrastructure and to important public investment. In 2010 and 2011, large-scale investments have been stepped up. In March, the government approved a roadmap for research infrastructure of national importance, which started investment in nine priority projects. Eight projects were supported to start preparatory work. 2011/12. The academic year has been announced by the Ministry of Education and Research as the year of science aimed at popularising natural sciences, technology and exact sciences. More than 150 events for young people and the general public will take place in Estonia during this academic year, which is believed to provide a new boost to the growth of science. Since this year, the largest research centre in the Baltic States, AHHAA, has been opened in Tartu. There were over 75,000 people in the first half of the year. Research and development must under no circumstances be seen as separate from entrepreneurship and innovation. Turning research results into business opportunities is crucial for Estonia's competitiveness. I would like to congratulate all the experts involved in the development of the Start-up Estonia programme with a budget of 2.2 million euros launched at the beginning of 2011. With a comprehensive plan, we can develop the entrepreneurial attitude of students and research communities and contribute to the development and growth of potential business ideas. The cooperation between companies and R &amp; D institutions has reached a new level, which means adopting Estonia into the international major league of R &amp; D in both direct and indirect terms. As regards GDP, Estonia was the most successful applicant for money from the 7th Framework Programme of the European Union in 2007-2009. Our research institutions and companies are active in participating in projects funded by the European Research Council and Wellcome Trust. By thanking Ene Ergma for her personal contribution, I would like to stress the signing of an agreement with the European Space Agency on a European cooperation country scheme. The Space Agency has started financing development and technology projects of Estonian companies and institutions through targeted procurement. For example, a joint study on the feasibility of flood warning systems is under the leadership of AS Regio in cooperation with the Institute of Marine Systems of TUT, the Estonian Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology and the City of Pärnu. Good listeners! The investment decisions made by the Riigikogu and the government have affected Estonia's development in a positive direction despite the difficult situation in the world economy. Our task cannot be to artificially identify the sectors to be developed as a priority, but to ensure the sustainability and further development of existing core competences. Only in this way can we increase the impact of research on the Estonian economy. The research community must continue to be raised, the funding models must be concentrated, the activities that have a major positive impact must be selected and open to a new one. In increasing productivity, increasing exports, improving employment and implementing other long-term goals in Estonia, we can rely without shame on our national research potential. In order to maintain success, we need to think well about new long-term plans. The R &amp; D Council has launched the debate on the main objectives of the new strategy and will continue to do so in 2012. I hope that there will be a broad and lively debate on the objectives of the strategy in society, which will help us move even faster towards a high-value-added economy. Thank you for the constructive cooperation of the Riigikogu in developing research and innovation!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U9	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You have a lot of questions. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U10	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! We know that 2% of GDP is earmarked for defence expenditure in next year's budget, while in R &amp; D we will only want to reach 2% in 2015. My question is primitive, but still: why does the government prefer so-called military and defence activities to development and research?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U11	Thank you. It's not quite like that now that if the sum is higher, it means preference. As we know, education spending is seven times higher than the amounts that go from the state budget to R &amp; D, but that does not mean that we prefer education to research and development. Society has different proportions. If we spend 1% of GDP on R &amp; D next year, this is already a very high level of public contribution in industrialised countries. Usually in those countries where 3% of GDP is spent on R &amp; D, which is also expected to have been the Lisbon Strategy's target, and to its level our northern neighbours have reached some time ago, I mean Finland and Sweden, 1% of R &amp; D expenditure comes from taxpayers' money through the state budget and 2% from the private sector. Unfortunately, at the moment, in Estonia, the private sector's contribution has grown strongly, but the public sector's contribution is still much higher. While R &amp; D expenditure is 1.63% of GDP, almost 1% of it comes from the state budget. The proportions in Estonia are still out of place. One might say that we can add the unpaid money from the private sector by the state. It must be acknowledged that Estonia has this money in principle compared to many other Member States of the European Union. Other countries, for example, pay 3% of GDP on average to service loans, but Estonia paid 0.2% of GDP to service loans last year, earning considerably more from its own reserves than it paid in the form of interest on loans. So we could say that we have this 3%, so let's put it in research and development. But I refer to the former rector of the University of Tartu, the current Minister of Education and Research Jaak Aavikkool, who said a long time ago that if we spent 3% of GDP on R &amp; D, it would most likely be an inefficiently spent taxpayer money, because we would be very, very much short of people with doctoral degrees to spend this amount effectively. More doctors are needed in our research institutions. Doctors need to be trained in such a way that they also flow across the borders of research institutions into the private sector. If, at the level of the head of department in the private sector, we are able to apply research doctors, we can expect that the private sector will also make significant increases in its contribution to R &amp; D. So it's gonna take some time, but we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U12	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U13	Thank you. Prime Minister! You mentioned that innovation and research should not be restricted in any way and listed strong areas, but did not want any preference. I fully support this view. However, I do think that we should pay a little more attention to those areas where we are truly strong and where the potential for development lies, be it ICT or oil shale technology. What do you think could be the areas where we are strong and a little ahead of others, and what should we pay more attention to in R &amp; D?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U14	Thank you. You've already mentioned them, plus medicine and biotechnology. Of course, contributions must be made to those sectors where good development has already taken place. But I would very clearly refrain from setting national priorities. It has been done in the world, and it has usually ended with a disaster sooner or later. In some cases, it can be said that false contributions have also ceased to exist in the country. We remember that the Soviet Union did not pay any attention to the development of information and communication technology in the early 1980s, but that in the five-year plans oil and steel tons were counted, but it was suddenly discovered that the Americans also used information and communication technology in armaments, after which huge investment programmes were launched. However, when the price of oil on the world market fell from $10 a barrel in 1987, considering that, for example, in 1982, the price had been $47 a barrel, there was no place to take oil dollars to fund all the research programs in the military industry. That was, in my opinion, the economic cause of the collapse of this entire empire. There are countries where R &amp; D has also been very well funded at national level, but where there have been some misdemeanours in choosing priorities. For example, an export and import agency in Japan once controlled all kinds of import transactions. After the war, it took a long time for countries to check the country's purchases in such a way that import permits were granted. I remember that in Finland, before the Olympic Games in Helsinki, coffee was a coupon commodity. Similarly, Japan needed authorisation from an export and import agency to buy all kinds of gadgets from abroad. One company applied for authorisation for years to buy in the technology for the manufacture of transistors. This national all-knowing agency always gave a negative answer to the company that wanted to deal with the transistors. It was considered a completely meaningless and unimaginable activity. This company was Sony. So it is not worthwhile for the state to teach entrepreneurs and intellectuals, so it is not worth dictating what is worth doing and what is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U15	Thank you very much. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U16	Thank you. Prime Minister! A few years ago, stories began from the scientific community that infrastructure was so heavily invested that no more concrete would be needed and at times even over-estimated by these infrastructure projects. Did I understand your speech correctly that now the emphasis is on people and knowledge, and perhaps the proportions are changing, that there is really a greater contribution to knowledge and less concrete?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U17	Yes, it was my message that people and quality should be the keywords for the new funding period. Special consideration must be given to doctoral studies. We need more people with doctorates, so there's plenty of them in the private sector. At the same time, the quality of teaching staff should also be contributed. We should create conditions that not only motivate us to come to Estonia at a mediocre level or even at a modest level from the borders of lecturers or scientists, but we should create such systems, as well as funding systems, which would enable us to bring the world's top scientists to Estonia. Today, when we prepare the accounts, we simply count how many scientists and lecturers came from abroad to Estonia, and we are happy about more and unhappy about less. But for scientists, quality is also important. This quality can be transferred to Estonian science for a new quality. We need to contribute more to people and quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U18	Thank you very much. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I very much agree with your last emphasis on the need to contribute more to people in the near future. However, in the introduction, you highlighted mostly economic indicators among the key indicators for the success of R &amp; D. Of course, both the economic foundation and the success of specific programmes are important R &amp; D. At the same time, high-quality higher education, the preservation of language and culture, social cohesion are also very important for the nation state, such things that science also puts on its shoulders. But I have a specific question about national programmes. Many of these have been drawn up on the basis of development plans and are dealt with by different ministries. How are you satisfied with inter-ministerial coordination and responsibility for national programmes?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U20	Thank you. Mostly R &amp; D, research is funded through the Ministry of Education and Research and, to a much smaller extent, through several other ministries, including the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In terms of activity, it can be said to be coordinated, but it is not such a black and white point of assessment. You can always do better. The number of indexed publications is certainly important for measuring the success of researchers' work, but I do not think there are any shortcomings in this regard in Estonia. Developments have been very rapid and, therefore, I did not consider it necessary to emphasise this indicator once again. For example, if you look at the increase in the number of indexed publications of Estonian researchers, from 570 in 2000, it has now reached 1564, so there is almost a triple increase. Indeed, growth is remarkable. We cannot say that it is only some sort of numerical figure, but it is still content. Estonian science is currently of very good quality. This is shown by the increased number of publications.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U21	Thank you. Please, Ene Ergma!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U22	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I fully agree with the previous speakers that people will become very important in the next period. But it seems to me that we are not taking full advantage of one measure involving serious young people. It's a postdoc institution. Postdoc means those who have already protected the degree. In my opinion, we should create much better conditions in Estonia for this institution, because there young people are preparing for a future career and they are really super-doers. What is your opinion that the sharp should be directed not only to strengthening the postdoc institution but also to getting both foreigners and Estonian people who have studied abroad and defended their doctorate there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U23	These two keywords, people and quality, should also include that the number of people staying in Estonia and coming to Estonia after defending the degree would significantly increase. When I say that the mobility system of our researchers must be one that motivates the absolute peaks of the world, I also mean postdocs and why not the stay of students studying in Estonia or of people who have defended their Master's degree from abroad in Estonia. When we evaluate the internationalisation of universities, we usually count the number of foreign students studying at one university or another. It's kind of like some kind of own purpose, the more, the better, the more international. However, if we look at those countries where R &amp; D is highly developed, in these countries the mere number of foreign students is not an end in itself, but the aim is to leave better graduates in the country. It is not intended to earn so much that foreigners are sold higher education as a service, but it is expected and earned that the best graduates will remain in the university or other research institutions after graduation and will add much more value there if the state provided additional resources to support the education of foreigners. Estonia should go the same way. It is not only that foreigners should come to Estonian universities to study, but also that those foreigners who have been brilliant personalities at the university and have successfully graduated from the university would like to stay here and work after defending the degree.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U24	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U25	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! First of all, thank you for your great optimism in looking at Estonian research and development! I have a much more prosthetic question. There is a great deal of talk about the role of the private sector in the financing of Estonian science, as we rely on examples where the private sector plays a major role. I wonder if it is known how much the private sector will contribute to the co-financing of structural support in the European Union. It's on the one hand. However, the other side of the matter: how far do government strategies provide for so-called "incentives" for this sector, tax incentives or something else to increase this share?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U26	Thank you. The private sector does not receive much structural support, but in some cases the private sector contribution can be 50%, in some cases the private sector contribution is only 15% and the European Union contribution is 85%. This will depend entirely on the measure from which the private sector requests money. The growth rate of the private sector's contribution is actually quite good. We should not complain now that the private sector is still passive. The private sector has already discovered the potential of R &amp; D for itself. Of course, it can always be as pretentious as I was when I answered one of the previous questions and say that the public contribution is 1% and the private contribution is 2%. But in Estonia, we have no reason to expect 2% tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or in a few years' time, because we know that the share of R &amp; D in GDP is high in those countries where there is research-intensive production and industrial enterprises are highly developed. For example, everyone in the world is aware that research expenditure in the automotive industry accounts for 20% of the cost of developing a new product. The pharmaceutical industry is equally research-intensive. There are many industries, and information and communication technologies are among them. Unfortunately, the typical research intensity of developing a new product in the forest industry is 1% or less in the world. Estonia has traditionally dominated precisely those industries whose research intensity is low. Therefore, if we complain to the private sector that they do not contribute sufficiently to research and development, then we should reproach history first and foremost, but that does not make sense. We can't change that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U27	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U28	Thank you. Prime Minister! There was a lot of talk here today about the need for more doctors and top scientists from around the world. This is certainly important, but you probably agree that it is also important to raise the overall level of education of the workforce so that innovation takes place in all businesses, in order to ensure that innovation is as broad as possible and not only in research laboratories. We know that 32% of Estonian adults are without vocational and higher education. The government's "Estonia 2020" programme envisages a 2% reduction in this figure. How ambitious do you consider this objective to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U29	Thank you. The share of participants in lifelong learning in Estonia has increased very rapidly in recent times, from 6% to 12% in the last four to five years. This has to be seen as quite rapid growth, but unfortunately, compared to the level of Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, where about one third of the workers participate in various refresher courses and retraining during the year, we are still lagging behind. But the rate of growth has been pretty good, the trend is good and this path needs to be continued. As I have already mentioned, the proportion of people with higher education in the Estonian population exceeds the average of the European Union, and in so doing considerably. The share of people with secondary education is also quite high. So there's no way we can blame the ignorance of our people. However, Estonian people have not been very active in vocational education. This is not today's discovery or yesterday's discovery, but in order to ensure that vocational education is more prestigious among people, the state has invested considerable resources in improving vocational education infrastructure over the last seven years. I also dare say that trends are good. In my presentation I said that there is no reason to treat R &amp; D and innovation separately in any way, but I also said that in the whole developed world, most innovation is still taking place in traditional production, traditional industry. As far as Japan is concerned, 90% of all innovative solutions are carried out in traditional production, but sometimes 10% in the fields of genetic engineering and information and communication technologies. Innovative thinking is innovative thinking. If the problem with the candy factory is that the candy is not kept in paper, then the innovative solution is that the candy can be put in paper in such a way that the paper does not unscrew after putting the candy in paper. Every entrepreneur should think innovatively every day. He should not only think that he lacks a doctorate and is therefore unable to innovate. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U30	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U31	Thank you very much. Thank you for your good presentation. But I also have a question. The president set up the "Talents home" action some time ago. As Prime Minister, how do you contribute to bringing Estonian scientists to Estonia? Can you name some of the actions you have taken in this particular area as Head of Government?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U32	Thank you. These acts have been carried out in the Riigikogu and the results of these acts are available in Estonia. Estonian researchers have returned home, mainly because we have a legitimate mobility instrument for researchers, which also provides financial incentives for Estonian researchers to return home. Scientists have returned to Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu. But our goal cannot be that all Estonian-speaking scientists should work in Estonia. Such an objective would be rugged; that cannot be our goal. Rather, our goal could be that Estonian scientists would be able to work in world excellence laboratories and centres of excellence. If a country can provide its people with an education that enables people to succeed at the absolute height of the world, then it has been a good country. If the goal is to lock brains only in the back room, this country is not a good country.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U33	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U34	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will continue with world-class faculty and scientists. One way to lure them here and keep them here is definitely money. Do you think we need to improve our laws to attract these world-class scientists and faculty here? For example, there has been talk of a renewal of the career model, etc. Do you think there's anything we can do to make the law even better?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U35	If we feel the need for top scientists in the world and if they are not here now, then the system must be changed so that they come here. However, as strange as it may be, money has so far not been the main limiting factor. Thanks to the European Union's resources, there has been a considerable amount of funding for the mobility of researchers compared to other areas of life. But we should refocus our priorities in such a way that we focus not only on the largest possible number of scientists to bring to Estonia, but on quality in particular. Unfortunately, our universities have complained that under the current conditions scientists do not want to come to Estonia; they do not have enough motivation. To tell you the truth, our own faculty and scientists don't take in people who could be attracted here right now with a very warm heart because of the mediocrity to blend in with their collective. The system needs substantial change, substantial improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U36	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No more questions for you. I'm asking for a speech chair, Ene Ergma! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! Thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. IRL has always considered education, research, innovation and development as a priority. The requirements of the 21st century labour market are such that educated people, especially in the fields of technology, science and engineering, find a rewarding job. As a small country, we need to make sure that it is good to work in Estonia for small or medium-sized high-tech companies with high added value in their production. What role does the Riigikogu and government play in promoting research and development in Estonia? It is very important that the courage and will of the state be ready to invest in new directions whose fruits are produced over a much longer period than the lifespan of a single parliament or government. As an example, I bring information technology and its applications. If we had thought almost 20 years ago that we would not be able to compete in this high-tech direction, because large countries have an immense amount of resources for both financial and human potential, we would not have much of what we have now surprised these countries. Another ten years ago, Estonia's biggest problem was that there were no companies dealing with research and product development, because foreign companies are not interested in research and development in subsidiaries. Now, however, such domestic companies exist. For example, a strong AS Cybernetica has emerged from one academic institute, where basic research and development are inseparable from the company's core business, hardware and software development in production. A few weeks ago, the first innovation award of the Baltic Assembly was presented to the Cybernetica team of AS in cooperation with the Baltic Association of Science and Technology Parks and Innovation Centres. It is also a pleasure to note that the Cybernetica team of AS has produced the world's first online voting software. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to quote to you a world-famous composer who has explained the connection of his own music with the human soul: 'If we look at a substance or object using a raster tunnel microscope, one thousand times the magnification obviously looks different than a million times the magnification. If you move through the magnification stages, you can detect unimaginable and quite chaotic "landscapes" when looking at all matter. But there's gonna be a border somewhere near a thirty-million-dollar magnification. Here the fantastic landscapes suddenly disappear, and we see only strict geometry, a kind of network, very clear and very special. The most amazing thing is that this geometry looks even similar to a wide variety of substances and objects. Can we try to find something similar about a human being? ' This world famous composer is Arvo Pärt, a newly elected musician of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. Physics, and especially material scientists, know that the nanoworld that the maestro talked about has given us fantastic new opportunities. This is once again a new and rapidly evolving direction, with a wide range of opportunities for use. I am glad that small companies have already emerged in Estonia, operating in the nano world. One such company is Skeleton Technologies OÜ, which develops and manufactures patented nanoporous carbon-based supercapacitors. What's a capacitor, you know. But what's a supercapacitor? The supercapacitor is an energy storage device with more than a million life cycles (a battery has a few thousand life cycles). Compared to conventional capacitors, they hold more energy in several orders of magnitude and have more power in several orders of magnitude compared to batteries. Where can they be used? In the automotive industry, supercapacitors help to save fuel by collecting braking energy and triggering it when the engine starts or accelerates; in energy, supercapacitors can be used in connection with power outages and voltage discharges. Also, the supercapacitor is likely to have a great future in space technologies. These are just a few examples. Finally, I would like to speak on a subject that was also mentioned by the Prime Minister. This topic is projects carried out in the framework of cooperation programmes between Estonia and ESA, or the European Space Agency. There are 12 of them now, plus one of the projects the Prime Minister talked about. One such project is the Estonian Student Satellite Union, led by Dr Mart Noorma, Associate Professor of the University of Tartu. It is an innovative educational programme initiated by students, which aims to support Estonian high-tech companies through the training of internationally competitive labour force. The idea of the programme was born in 2008, inspired by the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between Estonia and the European Space Agency. During the programme, more than 30 students, together with international partners, will build a satellite ESTCube-1, which will lead to 2012. In the orbit of the Earth, through a very important scientific experiment, a novel spaceship engine experiment. Good Prime Minister! These students need some money to send up that satellite. Not much! In the course of the programme, three doctoral students have already completed long-term internships or graduate studies abroad and have returned to Estonian research institutions or companies with acquired knowledge. Many new development projects have been launched at the initiative of these young people. The enthusiastic students of the Estonian Student Satellite have gained wide international attention through their activities. Six Master's or PhD students from Germany, Lithuania, Latvia and Ukraine have joined the project and started studying in Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen, It has been very often heard in this Chamber that young people leave Estonia and how bad everyone is. I would like to suggest: let us not complain, but try to offer new opportunities to the young people of Estonia, then they will certainly vote with their feet and remain in Estonia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ene Ergma. Professor Aadu Black of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I remember a few years ago, as a member of the previous Riigikogu, I listened here to the presentation by the honourable Prime Minister of Estonian research and development and its tasks. It was a report that commended a number of scientists. Mati Karelson, an honorary citizen of my home town, was approved twice; others were also approved. This presentation made a very deep positive impression on me and perhaps on the rest of the Riigikogu members. The report said well how things should be. My enthusiasm fell a little when we started discussing the budget. It was like two different policies. In next year's state budget, R &amp; D expenditure will remain at the same level as in 2011 at EUR 163 million. This level has been significantly enhanced and maintained by the European Union's contributions together with the co-financing of the Estonian state. Next year, less than two thirds of R &amp; D spending will be spent with the support of the European Union at 64.3%. A serious problem is that Estonian money should be added to European money to the extent necessary, otherwise development will not be sustainable. If we want funding to be used even more in the future by international sources, including competitive funding from the European Union's 7th Framework Programme, from 2013 under Horizon 2020, etc., we need to review the terms and conditions of pay for our researchers. They are currently not competitive and constitute an obstacle to participation in international cooperation programmes and mobility schemes. European research structures are increasingly debating'research colonialism'. Researchers in the former Eastern Europe do not deserve the same reward for the same work. We too have believers in this reason. Paraphrasing the famous slogan of the esteemed Prime Minister, I say: 'If it is science colonialism, I would like to live in this kind of science colonialism! ' Then what is it? Indeed, the European Commission has calculated that according to the standard of living, researchers' fees may vary to some extent in different countries. A researcher starting a career in Estonia should receive 2600 euros per month, an experienced researcher with ten years of work experience should receive 3995 euros. People like me would be paid, if I were still qualified, 5985 euros. It would be a little over 93500 Estonian kroons in the form of kroons, or old money. We here in Estonia have, in addition to praising a science-based society, reduced these sums much more than the ones we blame for European scientific colonialism. Another popular myth in Estonia is that scientific mobility solves our problems. The mobility grants offered by Estonia to bring foreigners to Estonia are not competitive and have never been competitive. It is true that people will come, especially when their own country's strategy states that someone should also be sent to this region to map the scientific world of this region. If we have a postdoctoral grant of up to EUR 28000 per year under the Mobilitas programme, then an analogous grant in Luxembourg, for example, was EUR 52809, in the Netherlands after three years, EUR 250000. It exceeds the top scientists offered in Estonia to such an extent that we can get here, as the Prime Minister nicely said, a second or third echelon or a fifth column. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U40	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U41	Estonia, like the whole of Europe, has set a target for R &amp; D expenditure of 3% of GDP by 2020, with 2% coming from the private sector. Let me be brief: we have an amazingly weak involvement of the private sector. In higher education, for example, the involvement of the private sector in the student's mama and papa's wallet. It is not much better for research. The next problem is the science-based Estonian programme. I followed closely when the previous Minister for Science and Education just asked a question about the cooperation of ministries. There are different levels of perception. It's lighter than that. Tõnis Lukas replied that there really was some cooperation. Those who cooperate in practical terms will see that the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are running the case, but for other ministries, this area is rather a thing that is not taken very seriously. It's even brighter than that. In Soviet times, too, there were sample farms, model farms, but it is not worth saying that agriculture flourished then. Do you really have to have an Estonian tent next to the American science campus in Antarctica, because otherwise nothing has been studied? Our problem is not the need to bring in talented people from somewhere in Pakistan. Our direction is smart and smart Estonia. We were reproached here and told that there were reasons in history. I argue that in Estonia's history, higher education has never been as low-valued in society as it is now. The situation in the scientific world is just as complicated. So where's the mistake made? It was never calculated that a country as small as Estonia could not exist on its own. It was considered unlikely that such a country would exist with so little resources. A mistake was subsequently acknowledged: it was forgotten to consider one component that made it possible. It was the education of our people, their knowledge and experience. That's something you have to keep in mind. Two Europes have emerged at different speeds. Thanks to the European Union, we have acquired a fixed place in the European research system, but once the course continues, it will be the place of a sub-contractor or servant. Do we want this place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U42	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Andrus Ansip would like a final word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Thank you for the lively debate. However, I want to put to the heart of the honourable Aadu Black that taxpayers' money in the European Union must be used as carefully as Estonian taxpayers' money. This is all the money of the Estonian state budget, every cent needs to be carefully considered and under no circumstances should the funds provided by the taxpayer of the European Union to the Estonian state budget be viewed as inferior as some kind of secondary money and say that we do not contribute anything. No one is telling us from Brussels that we should use European Union funds specifically for research and development. We can also use these tools to buy turning benches if we find that turning benches are more useful to the Estonian state than research and development. But this is not the case in Estonia. I thank the previous compositions of the Estonian Riigikogu, I thank the Riigikogu for the fact that the Riigikogu has always considered research and development as a priority for Estonia! As we know, if you don't put them in the soil in the spring, there's no point in looking for carrots or turnips in the fall. The thing about R &amp; D is that if you put seed in the soil in spring, if you invest in spring, there is no point in going after the bed in autumn, because there will be no harvest this autumn or next autumn and there will most likely be no harvest during the entire election period. However, the Estonian Riigikogu has had the wisdom to invest in research and development, because without this investment there would be no hope of harvesting a large crop from the research field in 5, 10 or 20 years' time. Thank you for that! It seems to me that at least we in Estonia cannot say that the Lisbon Strategy was a strategy that had gone beyond the fence. If only the target of 3% of GDP being spent on R &amp; D is removed from this strategy, it has, to be honest, been a great goal for us, and we have consistently moved towards it. This movement must not stop. Thank you, Ene, for reminding me of a satellite that needs to be launched into space! Fortunately, Estonia has a system of funding science independent of politicians. If the scientific idea bears, and if the satellite wings carry, our independent funding system will also launch it into space. The same goes for Antarctica. If scientists find that there really is a need to set up a station in Antarctica, that is what will happen. Fortunately, the Prime Minister or, more generally, the government in Estonia does not have the authority to decide on it. It can only be won by science. Thank you for your consistent research and development policy. That's the way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U44	Thank you very much, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. We have an overview of the state of R &amp; D and the government's policies in this area. The Riigikogu Board has received a proposal from the Central Party of the Riigikogu to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Central Party Group of the Riigikogu to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal and there are no respondents or abstentions. The proposal to extend today's sitting was supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U45	The next item is the debate on the key national issue 'The European debt crisis and its impact on Estonia'. Before we go to the debate, I will give you an overview of how it will be carried out. The first waitress is Urmas Varblane, an academician whose presentation lasts up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers that last up to 30 minutes. Indrek Neivelt, an economic expert, will then present his presentation for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers lasting up to 30 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteurs within the framework of this item. This will be followed by negotiations. The negotiations will continue until the end of the speeches, but no longer than the end of today's sitting. The members of the Government of the Republic shall then be entitled to speak. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups. According to our custom, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. We are going to the debate. I'm asking for a presentation of speech chair academic Urmas Varblas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U46	I guess I was in a bit of a hurry, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U47	You have many questions. Begin Lembit Rockvee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U48	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will begin my presentation on 'The debt crisis and the future of the euro zone'. We agreed with Indrek Neivelt that I would try to talk a little bit about how Europe has come to such problems in the first place and what it means to Europe in the wider picture. Estonia's topic also exists here all the time, but we may be talking about Estonia more specifically on questions, because it is still a very difficult task to talk about the euro zone and its future in 20 minutes. First of all, I am talking about what has created the current tensions in the euro area. There were two completely different interests in making the euro area together: political desire on the one hand and economic interest on the other. It is precisely in the sense that the political desire behind the Maastricht agreement, which was concluded in 1991, exactly 20 years ago, was, in fact, to balance the possibility that Germany would be very, very strong again when Germany joined, and that it was tied economically well to Europe. On the other hand, of course, there was a pure economic desire for Europe to be a world player compared to America and Asia, for Europe to be more united. That is why there was a very strong debate in the process of establishing monetary union. Of course, there was a debate about monetary union as an optimal currency area, there should be two sides: monetary policy and fiscal policy. If we now read about the agreements concluded over the last weekend that Europe has reached a fiscal union, I would say that this has far from happened. If we look at what is an independent fiscal policy and what are the components of fiscal policy at all, we will see that there is certainly no coordination there at the moment. But then, when the monetary union was made, it was certainly thought that problems would arise, and the Maastricht criteria were created to solve these problems. I'm sure you all know them perfectly well. I would like to point out that procedures were also invented to call countries to order (excessive deficit procedure), but none of this really happened. Why? I made a slide to explain it. I hope you can see the colors, the numbers themselves don't play a role here at all. There are green and red cells in this table. The Greens represent those countries where the standards were met, those countries where there were no red ones. In fact, the crisis started because France and Germany, the biggest players (to whom I also dragged around), did not meet these standards, but nothing happened to them after that. That's where I got the feeling that it's possible not to meet those standards. The next slide shows public debt. Here again, countries are ranked by the time they join the monetary union. We see that the debt in the countries marked with red is only increasing. The next slide will show all the countries that are currently under the excessive deficit procedure. You will see a very long list of countries, because under the Stability and Growth Pact, other countries are also listed here, not just those in the euro area. The next slide has two arrows that point to Greece. One shows the situation before Greece joined the euro zone, and the other shows the situation afterwards. This slide reflects the time between 1995 and 2010. We see that before the crisis, the Greeks had to pay 12% interest by borrowing money from the markets, but in the meantime they reached 4%. Of course, governments then had huge access to cheap money and, as a result, the number of public sector employees in Greece increased by 40% over the course of ten years. Now, of course, the problems are very big and you can see that Greece has returned to 12%. But unfortunately, I don't have time to stop by these slides. You have all the materials, about 50 slides. I'm certainly not showing them all here today. This whole European problem was, of course, exacerbated by the last crisis. This slide shows what has happened in the last two or three years after the crisis started, how debt increased and increased at cosmic speed. I made a calculation of the amount of public debt per person in different countries. At one end of this list is EUR 700 for Estonia and Bulgaria, and in the other end of the list this debt per capita is EUR 33000. So EUR 33000 is currently a public debt per Irish citizen plus private debt. This is a major problem for the whole of Europe. Europe is now looking for money in the world to finance its debt. Here is a rare example that Portugal is asking Angola for money to solve its problems. How the world has changed! I was at an international conference in Bucharest this weekend, which was clear: Europeans, wake up, see what's going on around here! What's going on around here is something else. This means that this is a very different crisis than the debt crisis. We are talking about a competitiveness crisis and that countries are no longer simply able to compete on the world market. There will be a banking crisis and a crisis of credibility and, finally, if there are so many problems, of course, it will also be a political crisis. All of this is due to the problems of marginalisation in Europe, which are indeed very serious. The growing role of Asia has been much discussed. I can only point out that Europe's productivity growth is slowing down constantly. I've got a slide for that. The EU-15 average hourly productivity growth is seen in the middle of this: 2.4%, 1.8%, 1%. It's always slower and slower. This means that the hourly productivity of a European worker is gradually decreasing. That's what matters in the long run. This is why the Mediterranean has also been in very great trouble. Scandinavia, for example, has behaved differently. They do not have this trend, they have invested very much in education and human capital, and the result is a flexible and resilient system. In this sense, my neighbors and I have been very lucky. There is also an important model of social well-being here, which is a very complex issue. The worst part is that Europe, as always, has to have its back against the wall, it has to be very difficult, and then the next decision will be taken, it will not be taken with caution. But it's very dangerous, it's late, and the problem's gonna burn big. I'll give you an illustration of the difference between the official rule and what's really going on. This picture came from Die Zeit. Here it is shown what is the official retirement period and what is the actual time. This difference exists in some countries for up to five years, which means that neither the age of formal retirement is a real age. In this crisis, there is a great deal of talk about the fact that all bad things have been caused by the failure of the public sector to manage finances. This isn't quite right. Banking and the private sector will certainly play a very important role here. When we look at Ireland and Spain, there, especially Ireland, the problem is clearly that banks made very risky investments in the real estate sector and elsewhere. What must Ireland do now? Last year the Irish budget deficit was 31%, not 3%, but 31%. The Irish have a problem that private sector risks are paid off by the public sector. It's a big problem, really, it shouldn't be that way. The very simple question now arises as to why money markets lose confidence in the euro area. All indicators (I am not going to read them out) are of the same order of magnitude in Europe and America. There is no difference, it is not obvious that things are worse in Europe, yet there is no confidence in Europe in the money markets. The short answer is this: the euro is a currency that is not the country behind it. That is the key issue. If there was a clear sense of responsibility back there, it wouldn't be like that. This leads to the conclusion that this is also a political crisis. If you ask how to get out of this crisis, there are very nice statements about it. I'm very quick to refer. Firstly, competitiveness should be improved. This has been said in all the pacts, but productivity figures are getting worse and there is actually no improvement. The second point is stricter budgetary rules, easier application of sanctions. If we look at what is happening, we will see that lawyers from different countries are already working to find places where we can say that this is not really the case and Article 126 is contrary to these new decisions. Actually, I'm not even sure it's going to work. The third is the stability mechanism, how to avoid the situation in Europe that countries should start paying interest at the so-called deadly level for their bonds. They think it's gonna be really hard at around 7%. That's what I'm skipping right now. Indeed, the problem has become very acute, the money is needed very much. At the same time, the European Central Bank has clearly maintained the position that it can buy bonds for up to 20 billion a week. He doesn't do it anymore, he doesn't want to get involved anymore. What's behind this? This is probably due to the clear desire of the European Central Bank to see governments act more responsibly. However, the last messages have been that the French Socialist presidential candidate, Hollande, has said that if he is in power, he will in any case challenge all the decisions that have been taken. This is Europe's day, which is really coming out here. It's been two days, but there's already new opinions, there's already thousands of different views. That's what's bad for the money markets. I'm gonna show you a picture cut out of the weekend newspaper Die Zeit. Here are the dates, the flags are the countries, and then there is the amount of bonds to be redeemed on this or the other date. A difficult moment is coming soon when Italy needs to start borrowing hundreds of billions from the markets. Color passion shows when this moment will come to the hands of the various countries. This clearly shows the very important role of Germany's position. This man here is Jürgen Stark, the man who resigned from the Executive Board of the European Central Bank because he found that the policy of the European Central Bank is fundamentally contrary to Germany's views on what one central bank must do. He said that each country must earn its own positions and must pay its own bills. Germany has gradually been retreating from it all along, but it has tried to impose conditions on it. In a sense, there are quite a lot of compromises now also on the German side. Their assertions are nothing new; this is a common thing to demand balance. But with regard to Germany's views, many say that Germany is like a man in a pre-infarction state who is advised to start running and exercising. The situation has become that such suggestions may be correct, but they may not help at the moment. That's a problem. Europe has taken the role of strict judge in the IMF, which must come and say what needs to be done, without being able to settle the score among itself. In this sense, the last weekend's decision that the IMF would give the countries 200 billion again was clearly based on this logic, so that the countries would receive this money from such a harsh judge, not as before. It is very interesting that China is currently setting up two funds: the Chinese-European and Chinese-American funds. In total, they are in the order of 300 billion. This is a clear example that China has realised that it is not in its interest to collapse in the euro zone either. In the world, interdependence has come so far that we should think about it from the world's point of view when discussing Estonia and the debt crisis. In fact, Europe is currently at stake in the world. It is not a question of one or another small category; it is a question of what Europe will look like in the world in the future. I'm showing a slide about the Euro Plus Pact. This pact was already adopted in March, but we, I think, have had very little talk about it. There are all very beautiful, very correct sentences about the need to strengthen competitiveness. They talk about what should be done, about wage indexation, about retirement age. These are all the things we are talking about, such as loan brakes. But what's the problem? Realising all of this is very difficult. The last weekend caused a lot of new confusion. This title '27 minus 1' is not a good title at all, because it means that Europe will become even more divided. Here is a very complicated picture, it has different European paragraphs. There is a eurozone in the centre, then there is the European Union, then there is the Schengen area. There are very different zones here. I drew another zone with a yellow question mark that came up this weekend. The question is whether there are too many zones. When we talk about Estonia, it has somehow happened in this picture that the Estonian flag is in the middle, right in its heart. It also says in some ways that in these circumstances it is very important for Estonia that a sensible solution to the European debt crisis be achieved. The choice is very harsh. One option is to move towards a more central Europe. Another option is marginalisation in the world. In fact, a broad choice needs to be made between these two options. A short-term fire-fighting process is currently underway. Maybe it's a little bad, but it kind of looks like it right now. But the decisions of the future are very harsh. The regulation and supervision of the banking sector are essential. When we finally talk about Estonia's interests (I am afraid that time will come to an end), it is in Estonia's interests if the ESM was established as early as possible. It may be financially burdensome at first, but it is one institution that can become a European currency fund, precisely in the sense that there will be some kind of structure that requires a sense of responsibility. This, in my opinion, is quite a serious issue from a European point of view. The ESM should get started as soon as possible, and then there will also be a situation where those countries that currently provide guarantees and make debt to themselves by granting guarantees will be left out of it and the state will no longer be in debt. In summary, it is likely that very important decisions will be taken over the next six months for the future of Europe. Of course, it can be said that a more centralised Europe certainly does not mean a fiscal union. I don't think so. A lot of the word 'Fiscal Lith' is currently used. The German Chancellor uses the words'stabilisation union' and'stabilisation pact', trying to be milder, because European countries are not prepared to give up their independence in this way. It cannot be sold to the European Commission. I myself have thought that Europe would need a signal now that European countries are dealing with it so that they can still get England back to their own boat. In Britain, this is currently being the subject of very large discussions. A very large part of it thinks that the City of London without the European Union is not at all the City, that if Britain is outside the Union, then the European Financial Centre is no longer in the City. It's not in their best interest at all. In fact, Britain was not the wisest at the moment, as Britain's analysts themselves say. What is the most realistic scenario for the future, how does Europe come out of this situation? We may not like it, but the future seems to be the fact that debt inflation or inflation growth are taking place using different methods. This is the most real option, because then politicians will be able to sleep more calmly and they will not have so much concern that they will again have to act very brutally against the interests of the electorate. At the same time, it means a tax for everyone, which is not good at all. I'm sorry, I passed a few minutes! I'm just finishing up. Among the slides there are a number of images that show Estonia's direct commitments to different funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U49	Thank you very much. You didn't go over one second, you were very accurate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U50	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Academician! From time to time, the issue of European Union bonds has emerged during this crisis. Many experts recommend them. What is your position on European Union bonds? What position do you think Estonia should take here?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U51	The issue of European bonds is, of course, under discussion. Here we can clearly see the stakeholders to whom it is useful and to whom it is not useful. With Jürgen Stark's picture, which I showed earlier, there was a title, whether or not there's a transmission link. If we are making Eurobonds now, then on the one hand, this transfer union has arisen. Because, in the process, those countries that are currently well rated will give their rating and thus support weaker countries. Then weaker countries will be able to regain access to money that they do not currently have access to. This is where we say that if there is a fiscal union, there is solidarity, and that is where the countries support each other financially. I do not think this is very acceptable at the moment. Germany is strongly opposed to this. They, of course, are the ones who should bet the most again. With European bonds, they can come. No one dares to say that one thing or another isn't going to happen. But they come when completely watery rules are in place. As long as there are no rules, there won't be any bonds. I think that the European Central Bank, too, is of the opinion that it will not allow these bonds to develop at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U52	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U53	Thank you. Dear Professor Sparrow! I have the impression that there is currently no common philosophical understanding of the solutions to the crisis in Europe. When the crisis broke out, it was decided to tackle the crisis mostly. You mentioned that it had a high price and that one politically acceptable solution is debt inflationary. This would probably not be suitable for Estonia, because we do not have such debt accumulated. Please explain your understanding of how we could be affected if the target countries for our exports were to start saving very heavily and cutting our spending.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U54	It has a direct bearing on what I was talking about earlier, the metaphor of a sick man and medication. Indeed, Europe is in a very difficult position in this respect. If all countries at the same time, indeed, are going to cut back properly at the same time, then it is clear that it is going to reduce demand. This means that intra-European trade will be further reduced. Then there is the only chance that Europe will have to compensate for this by increasing its competitiveness outside Europe. If you ask how powerful Europe is today in terms of exports, it must be acknowledged that, for example, even German exports to Poland are of the same size as German exports to China. Now it's a little bigger, but a few years ago it was even the opposite, Germany exported more to Poland than to China. This shows that, in terms of competitiveness, the process of cutting should be a very managed process. I am saying that this should be a controlled process, but I have not talked at all about another factor that is very important in this game. This is the international financial market, credit rating agencies and their opinions. They are not really interested in European explanations or debates; they have their own logic. They say that now they are going to discuss European ratings and reduce them again. The question is that the state has to work out its budget somehow, it has to pay out its wages and strike a balance. If budget cuts are made but cannot be compensated by exports, economic growth will slow down. If economic growth slows down, then there is no hope for the credit rating agency to pay back debts. The agency says it's even more suspicious, makes the rating worse, and the bond interest gets bigger. There is a very crazy parallel from Japan in the 1990s. In Japan, economic growth for ten years was close to zero. Fortunately, there are different countries in Europe. On the one hand, it is Europe's weakness that it is very written, on the other hand it is the strength of Europe. In Europe, for example, there are Nordic countries, Germany, which has consistently combined the social welfare model with investment in development, research and the future. Very many Mediterranean countries have not done so and have largely been dependent on European money. As a warning sign, the big problem for Estonia in the future is that we are becoming dependent on European money. We have kept public finances well, but let us think that if the state budget were 20% lower tomorrow, how would we balance it if we did not have European money? This is now going out of the question, of course, but it shows that there is a spiral that can start creating new problems itself. A short-term exit is what is currently being sought not very openly to emphasise that the European Central Bank is doing supporting works. Officially, he has to balance it with the growth of deposits, he has to sterilize the money he puts in the bonds. But at the end of November it was the first time the European Central Bank bought bonds, but it was no longer able to absorb the corresponding amount of deposits, and ten billion more money came up. It was the first time they couldn't sterilize anymore. This is an example of an increase in inflation when the process deepens. For whose sake or for whom is this happening? In the case of Estonia, the answer is not so unambiguous. Estonia's private sector debt was 120% of our GDP, now it is slightly smaller. The other half is the Estonian public sector, which has a very small debt. Very simply, those who have deposits are concerned, but those who have debts think that it will be easier to repay the debt. So there's two sides. There's no one answer, there's one answer, it's good for one, it's bad for another. That's right. That answer must have gotten a little long.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U55	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U56	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You see the ESM as one possible lifeline. On the basis of the latest news, the ESM applies when it is combined with 90% of the capital. So far, we know that the principle of unanimity and solidarity, or Europe, has always taken one step. It is now said that, if the ESM is implemented, a majority vote or 85% consent will be sufficient in the future. How do you comment on this question? What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U57	I can answer that Estonia is a member of the International Monetary Committee. The International Monetary Committee has exactly the same principle, where votes depend on paid-up money. For example, the share of the United States used to be 25%, and now it has slightly decreased. The large countries that have invested a lot of money in it are also asking for something in return. This is a problem in the sense that some countries feel that they are not entirely equal to others. But if we start to think the other way around about what these stakes are, let's think about what Germany, for example, is doing, then it must be taken into account that Germany is otherwise not ready to contribute. The question arises as to whether or not this fund will be created. If this fund does not come into existence, it is still quite difficult to understand where Europe is going to get money in the next 20 or 10 years, when it is gradually trying to reduce debt. I don't have a good answer here. The attitude is, in fact, that there are things that don't like, but it's very difficult to say right now, under what conditions the other party would be willing to bet. I guess that's not decided right now. I think there may still be a lot of changes. However, I do not think it is impossible to talk to Britain again. It's not out of the question. It's gonna take a while to calm down, sit at the table and keep thinking. It would be in our best interest, I think. Britain is certainly a country with a different mindset, and it would be necessary in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U58	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U59	Thank you very much. Honourable Academician! Thank you for your presentation and for more detailed slide material. On my question, I take it from what you said in your presentation that, to a large extent, the current debt crisis, the European Union and the euro zone are also caused by the fact that the currency of the euro is not the currency of any country, it is such a general currency. At the same time, we all have problems in general as well as in every country individually. Against this background, quite constructive politicians in many countries have proposed to return to their own currency. I'll give you an example from our neighborhood. This has been offered by Paavo Väyrynen, who wants to be the President of Finland with all his heart. And not just him. What would this change specifically in one country and in the European Union as a whole? The Treaties make it very difficult, if not impossible, to leave the eurozone without leaving the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U60	I can say more than that. I recently saw in a German newspaper a picture that, since the euro has different serial marks, depending on where they are printed, it would be possible to mark more than just paper money printed in one country or another and declare it as national money. So technical solutions are already designed as much as possible. First of all, there is no way to say that this is not possible. Anything's possible. We have not talked here at all about a single interest group on business and international entrepreneurship. This is what society works on at all, where jobs come from, tax revenue and this first value created. For example, in France, Saint-Gobain is a large group with a company located in Elva. Imagine if the management of Saint-Gobain were told that from tomorrow they would start to settle again in 17 European currencies, then they would re-use exchange rate risk protection, accounting would be in 17 cash, re-audited on 17 money, etc. In total, it can be taken as 'transaction costs'. The economic interest in making the euro was that transaction costs should be reduced. If you go back to your own currency, this means that the transaction costs will be increased. I guess what happens then. Very many large European and global groups operating in Europe are considering how much they contribute to Europe and how much to Asia, Latin America, North America and also Africa. The problem is that Europe is one of the others here, and companies have a choice where they operate. The strength of Europe should be that we have the free movement of goods, services and people. The re-introduction of national currencies would be a clear new obstacle to this free movement. I'm afraid there's the biggest opposition from the private sector. However, it must be borne in mind that it has become clear that it is not even possible to sell state assets in Greece, because there are no registers or accounts. There are countries where this is really, really out of hand, and it is very difficult to find solutions there. Anything could happen there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U61	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U62	Thank you, Madam President. Good academic! Is there any link between the debt crisis in the European Union and national tax policies? I ask whether progressive income tax could be the cause of the debt crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U63	The link that progressive income tax would cause a debt crisis, I don't see it. That's not the reason. I think the world is a lot more complicated. If progressive income tax were to cause countries the problem of a debt crisis, I think the world would be too easy. In fact, Europe's biggest problem is that Europe has so far not been able to reach the point where Europe as a whole is investing in future growth to emphasise its importance in order for all people to be able to develop their abilities through education. If they get it done, the country will be very flexible. The Nordics are very good at it. Whether there is a crisis, they are able to react relatively quickly: people are learning around, getting a new job and being able to act. This is what gives the country flexibility. About ten years ago, Karl Aiginger, an Austrian economist, wrote an interesting article entitled The Future European Model of Social Welfare. In this article he introduced two concepts: TOP 3 and Big 3, or 3. It concerned only the Member States of the European Union. TOP 3 belonged to Sweden, Finland and Denmark at the time, on the other hand there were Mediterranean countries and thirdly Central Europe. He pointed out the main difference that Scandinavian countries have consistently invested a great deal in education. Another important thing is the implementation of education in entrepreneurship, which has also been well done there. One could say that this debate would continue, which was here before, that it is extremely important for Estonia to be able to deal very well with the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy in the future. There are things you can discuss here that have not gone well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U64	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U65	Thank you, honourable waitress, for a very interesting presentation and very interesting answers. As you rightly said, living beyond power has been going on for decades, but nevertheless, at the very top of the crisis, a great deal of possible stimulus packages were being implemented, with the aim of maintaining the real economy for public money. We saw that this was perhaps the case for a slightly smaller recession, but at the same time, as you mentioned in the case of the Japanese example from the previous past, this probably means that economic growth has stagnated for long years and a smaller reduction has to be paid with interest. Tell me, please, is the effectiveness of the aid packages actually questionable rather a mistake in Keynes and his followers' theory, or was the application of this theory too much?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U66	First of all, I think it is necessary to clarify that these incentives can also be very good. The question is where they put the money. In my opinion, the biggest problem at the time of the last crisis was that the banks' assets and the leverage that is on it had gotten so out of place that the countries, the governments that had been put in a difficult position, began to save banks and put huge amounts of money there. In essence, taxpayers paid for private sector risk. That was a problem. Incentives must be put in the right place to further develop the country. How did Sweden behave during the crisis? In the 1990s, Sweden opened universities so that young people would not be on the street without work but would study. This incentive is very constructive. It must not be said in black and white that all incentives are bad and this behaviour is bad. It's all about the incentive to use. However, if, for example, the Irish people pay 25 years for the risks of an Irish bank, that is really bad. This is a question of banking supervision. This is a huge problem for banking supervision. The European Systemic Risk Board, which was established, should deal with this. We'll see where it came from. This came from the fact that in Europe the country could only run its own banking, but the banks were operating all over Europe, all over the world. In short, this is a regulatory issue. But now I'm getting very far from incentives. The question was about Keynes, whether Keynes' theory is wrong and Friedman's. I'll tell you again, it's not that simple. Both approaches exist and they simply need to be combined in a reasonable way. I can also give examples of the clear failure of Friedman's policy from Chile in the 1970s, where it ended with a disaster when the policy was turned back a long way from this Friedman's policy. The truth is still between the two.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U67	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U68	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I, too, thank you for this meaningful report. However, I am concerned at the conclusion of your presentation that, whatever this solution is, in fact, inflation rates will increase in any case. Is it not the case that higher inflation is encouraging consumption booms again? You showed slides of public debt and were also slides of private debt in some countries. How, however, can we avoid the problems caused by the surge in private sector lending due to inflation, which you consider to be increasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U69	I'm going to be a little more specific. First of all, with regard to inflation. This decision has not yet been taken. The European Central Bank is clearly holding this course that if it buys bonds, it will try to compensate for it by having money deposited as a weekly deposit, for example, and thus maintaining a balance. If it fails, or if it is forced to buy more bonds ('sunned' is wrong to say, but if it is persuaded, it is said that such rules have been agreed in Europe, they must have water, and now the central bank should help out of the difficult state of Europe), then it may, of course, be that the European Central Bank is lending more money to governments. It is not a question of inflation reaching 10% or, I don't know, many percent. At present, there is still a 'controlled inflation policy' (a beautiful expression), which may sometimes get out of control. In parallel, the United States of America, which has now been putting dollars into circulation, buying bonds, is taking these steps in turn, but inflation is still 2% in the United States. It may not be so tragic. What goes in the direction of the matter will in any case be revealed in the next year. The European Central Bank currently has a second option. It has offered European commercial banks the possibility of obtaining a loan resource for up to three years. The hope is that, if Europe can agree a little bit, banks will start buying their own bonds and the European Central Bank will not have to contribute so much. But speaking of the rise in inflation, I was looking at the inflation rate in Europe before the euro zone was made in the mid-1990s. Then it was 5 to 6%. It could be a sign. We have repeatedly had such inflation in Estonia. We would have had a very low inflation rate of 5% in 2008. We're always commuting between 4% and 5%. I don't know if that's just the problem. I see the problem in a slightly different place. This is a question for future generations: is it worth saving money? If we give the next generations a signal that money is not worth saving, then it can only pay off after generations or two, and it is dangerous. It's much worse. If there really is a signal that there is no point in saving at all, that there will be another round of inflation anyway, then what you asked about will come up. The problem arises that an entire generation is not accustomed to saving and will never think about it again. Moreover, when we talk about individual countries, Germany is a country where huge savings have been collected in the generation that started saving in the late 1940s and early 1950s. Germany is very concerned. I think the German voice is very strong. They will not allow the Mediterranean ideology to go very hard; the moment of scrutiny will remain. Now the answer has gone very long again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U70	Thank you. The next question is Ene Ergma. There are three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, good clubmate from the academy, for the presentation. My question you partially answered by answering Taavi Kõivas, but I would like to ask another question: if the banks had not initiated the 2009-2010 financial crisis, would the debt crisis have arisen now or would it have been delayed to some extent? What is the role of banks, both commercial banks and central banks, in preventing crises? What are the banks even doing, just watching how everything's going?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U72	Thank you very much. We're finishing the round of questions and answers now because 30 minutes have passed. Thank you very much to the academician Urmas Sparrow! You can clap, applause is quite appropriate. [[Let's hear it.]] Indrek Neivelt, the economics expert in the chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U73	Indrek Neivelt will certainly talk about the banks' view of this issue. First of all, the question that, if there had not been a financial crisis, would everything have been delayed. The short answer is that it probably would have happened. The problems didn't go away. The problems were there. Just could have been financed further, credibility would not have been lost in this way. I think that the banking sector has a huge role to play in the fact that the whole situation suddenly got so bad. The issue of responsibility here is very important. In the case of banks, there is now a clear logic that the whole investment banking sector has been designed, which no longer has anything to do with old classical banking. Indrek used the word 'casino' here. He'll talk about it later. There are high risks in this area, and if these risks materialise and the public sector starts paying for it, it is unfair, it is not fair. It shouldn't be like that. I regret even more of the Irish people and Icelanders, for example. We can say that every nation deserves its leaders, its banking supervision and everything there is, but still. The banking authority, I think, is a very important issue; it has come to the surface during this crisis and needs even more attention in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you for the compliment that I have been called an expert. I don't think I'm an expert, but today I'm talking to you about a debt crisis. Thank you very much also to the previous speaker, he gave a very thorough overview and answered the questions thoroughly. I'll try to be original in some other places and throw some newer ideas into the air, even though it gets hard. First of all, the crisis in Europe has been going on for more than three years now, and I do not consider the beginning of the crisis to be the beginning of the crisis when we started talking about Greece last spring, but in September 2008, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers triggered a major financial crisis that grew into a global economic crisis. As we have already spoken here today, it was decided that the response to the crisis would be that banks would be taken over, that businesses would be rescued, and that demand would be supported by state loans. Maybe this typical recent behavior: if there is a problem, we'll take a loan. Although already then there was a problem that there were too many loans. In the summer of 2009, it was clear that this solution would not be sustainable, that the sovereign debt crisis would come next, and Greece, Ireland and Portugal would be the first to fall into the trap. That's what happened. Last summer it was clear that saving Greece was still an easy task, and it would be really difficult if Italy and Spain were to get into trouble. It was also foreseen. The outcome of last week's European Union summit was also predictable, because it was known that Britain was opposed to amending the basic agreement. I mean, there haven't been a lot of surprises. Why am I reminding you today? Still because decision-makers have always underestimated this crisis. All the time it's done something that's too little, and everything's done too late. The behaviour of the market has been underestimated. It is safe to say today that, if all these trends continue to do so, there will soon be problems with France and, a little later, with Germany. The previous speaker mentioned that 7% is considered to be such a deadly interest that if the state's debt is 7%. I'm not that optimistic. Simple calculation: if a large majority of countries already have 100% of GDP debt, then we can all calculate if 100% of GDP is debt, then 7% interest is exactly 7% of GDP per year. Imagine if the state budget were to account for almost 20% of the GDP, because the budget there is 30 to 40% of the GDP. Now the situation is that there has been a lot of news and opinions about the crisis, the information room has been conquered, and it is actually very difficult to understand where the main feature is. Fear stories and horror stories are fired from different places and it's very difficult to navigate. I would try to give you a relatively simple framework today to do better in this information package. Basically, the problem can be divided into two parts. Firstly, a solution needs to be found to the question of how the over-indebted countries can handle their debts, and how to make the banking sector work and the economy function. This is where I put the question of achieving a budgetary balance. Secondly, there is an answer to the question of how to prevent such a crisis from happening again in the future. Much has been said about solutions, too, and will not repeat them for long. The first is always said to have to cut public spending. Here it must be understood that cuts in turn reduce economic growth, not to say, lead to recession. Thus, the ability to service the loan will be further reduced. Another solution, inflation. It is said that inflation facilitates the servicing of the loan, or real interest must be negative. However, given the demographic situation, the decline in the purchasing power of savings is a major blow to national pension systems. The third option, which will help to avoid problems in the future, is the centralisation of power. This also includes increased control over national budgets and automatic fines, which caused much talk last week. However, there is no reason to believe that centralisation of power is limited to last week's decisions. This is just the beginning. When it comes to the economy, it is clear that by cutting only many countries are unable to serve their loans, inflation must support the service of loans. It is also clear that spending must be cut and reforms must be implemented, otherwise nothing will change and inflation will only prolong agony. It seems to me that, in addition to the general fear of inflation, Germany has wanted to put other countries on the path of reform, and therefore, in cooperation with the central bank, this vigorous intervention by the central bank has been postponed all the time. If we now want to sum this up in a very simplified way, we are actually debating whether and how much to cut and how much to print. We cannot predict the scenario of exiting the crisis. Nor do we know how long this crisis will last, but the end result is easier to predict. Today it should be clearer that the European standard of living will not rise in the coming years, but will tend to fall, the purchasing power of savings will tend to decrease, and politically more decision-making will move to the centre. It is mainly a question of the speed of processes and how much power will be centralised. Now we are talking not only about the economy but also about decision-making processes. Academic Sparrow drew a very good picture of how different countries are made up of different communities. Now, when it comes to decision-making in the European Union, the central bank is responsible for ensuring that prices are stable. In the United States, for example, the central bank of the United States, the Federal Reserve, aims at employment and economic growth. It is as if the European Commission is responsible for Europe, but they do not have the means and they do not have a strong mandate. Germany and France have taken on all the weight, but their leaders are still responsible to their constituents. There is an urgent need for those who are responsible for Europe and who have the mandate of the people and the necessary resources. Another example. At present, countries are debating different measures and, in a simplified way, some countries are supporting revenue cuts and others are supporting higher inflation. However, if we were to look at the voters from different countries, the picture would be much more written. Those with large savings should be in favour of cuts, and those with loans should be in favour of inflation. So once again, in a very simplistic way, one would be the Saving Party and the other would be the Borrowing Party. There are certainly very many people in Greece and Italy who are in favour of 'hard' monetary policy, and there are certainly many people in Germany who would like inflation to make their debt burden easier. But right now, this dispute is once again a matter of state borders, not whether someone has deposits or loans. When we talk about Estonia, our country has practically no debts, but there are large loans in our private sector. Today, we may ask whether we are still acting in the interests of our constituents by supporting the cuts, not inflation. Here I would like to add: I do not have loans and I have deposits. So no one can accuse me of promoting inflation in my own personal interest. Given that we are moving step by step towards the Federation and we do not know how far we are going to stop it, more should be done in the debate on this matter. I think that the Riigikogu's discussion today is very grateful. We must be a step ahead rather than a step behind or a few steps behind. We have to ask ourselves today whether, for example, we agree with common taxes, whether we agree with a common tax policy, with a single budget, with a large part of our budget going to the European Union, and then we get back. These are questions that will soon be free to come to the table. We have to be ready for this. Such debates, such disputes are also in the interests of our government, because if the government has a parliamentary mandate as a people's mandate, it will be much easier for them to argue at the table in Brussels. And one more thought: if we can see in a row that we are facing a consolidation of power, it is in the interests of the members of the government that no one accuses them, for example, in 50 years' time, of giving up our independence so easily. Many economists say that we have a so-called lost decade ahead of us. Perhaps the baseline scenario could be that the economy in Europe will not grow but shrink over the next five years or more. Let's hope the bigger collapses can be prevented, but there's a lot of nervousness. Likely, if such a scenario starts, Estonia's position will be relatively good due to its lower cost base and flexibility. When we agreed with the previous speaker who talked about what, I had to talk a little more carefully. It's very difficult to do, as you all understand. I think everyone agrees with one thing: we are facing very fickle and unpredictable years. And that's why it's always the right kind of benevolent behavior to maintain your flexibility and reserves. As we all know, it is not the greatest and strongest that survives in nature, but it is still the most adaptable. In this sense, the Estonian economy is certainly one of Europe's most adaptable. We've practiced it many times. We are certainly one of the more flexible ones, but it will certainly be useful to see how we can make ourselves more flexible in the future. Perhaps, on the one hand, we are prepared for the crisis, but if we look on the other hand, on the reserve side, we have reserves, while the private sector has very small reserves compared to the old European countries. So we need to think again about how to achieve more reserves and more flexibility. That was my brief speech, and I am very happy to be able to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U75	Thank you very much for the waitress. Please, a question from Raivo Järvi!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U76	I'm honored to say thank you to the waitress first! I'm just about to go through U.S. history. The United States of America's name speaks for itself. The pages of this history show how Alexander Hamilton, the Minister of Finance of his time, did the creation of the Federal Reserve. The state kept money there in different banks. At this point I recall how Andres Lipstok, while still in this Parliament, once sent a fool like me to Brussels, where the star performer was nobelist Joseph Stiglitz. He said at the dinner table: 'If the times of our economy are sour, we have more than one: we sell the dollar out more expensive than we buy it back because we have the Federal Reserve. ' You also mentioned that the European Central Bank is moving towards the functions of the Federal Reserve. My question, which is very ungrateful, is: at what level of federalisation would the central bank already meet this Federal Reserve criterion? How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U77	Thank you. Mr Sparrow is certainly a much bigger specialist here, but once again: I said that the biggest difference between the Federal Reserve is that it also looks at price stability, growth and employment. There is no purpose. This is what is currently actually restricting the conduct of the European Central Bank. I think they understand perfectly in this same Executive Board of the European Central Bank themselves that you should buy these bonds, that there is no other solution. But they have been told that the purpose of action is this; they are like cuffed. I believe that today no one dares to open this book and say: let us now discuss that perhaps the rules of the game will change. Then the fear of inflation gets really big again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U78	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U79	Thank you. Good waitress! I have two questions for you as a banker. I'll start with where you started, perhaps Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy. At the time, there was a great deal of talk about rating agencies giving the highest ratings to certain products and institutions a few weeks before the big crash and bankruptcy. There was a lot of talk that maybe countries themselves have to start creating their own rating agencies or that something needs to be changed in this system. What is your opinion on this? Is everything going to be that way now? The second question concerns the size of the banks. The main argument why many countries and governments went to save banks was that banks are too big to let them go down. Do you think that such regulations should also be considered so that banks are not so large that they must be rescued by countries? Maybe let the companies that took too high risks go bankrupt?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U80	As far as credit rating agencies are concerned, I still cannot understand how such a system can work if you, as an entrepreneur or a bank, want to get a rating, you pay that credit rating agency. I never understood how it could be like this. I'm not going to name one rating agency that once, when I was in Hansapank, we were practically blackmailing. He gave us a rating that was, as he said, based on publicly available information and which was several degrees below the second rating. Then all we had to do was take a new rating from the same agency that put us in a box so low. Basically, it was blackmail. In my opinion, credit rating agencies should be independent; they should be financed from the state budget or from the European budget; it is elementary. The question of whether the banks are too big. It's too big. Before the crisis, I think that, if we did this analysis today, it would be different, it would have shown that banks with a balance sheet volume of more than EUR 10 billion will not become more effective, that the management of these risks will not be better. The only thing growing is the Director-General's salary. Clearly, they're too big, they just don't understand those risks. No, I have always managed a balance sheet of less than EUR 10 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U81	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U82	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am sincerely grateful for today's very thorough, instructive presentations and fruitful debate. There was an in-depth discussion of the need to look at a number of factors. Estonia, for example, has its sovereign debt at the end of the ranking, which is immensely sympathetic. It also came to the conclusion that the debts of citizens or private individuals are something else in several countries. Can you describe where we belong from the so-called private mortgage? This doesn't suggest perhaps a state policy to shift greater responsibility on the part of private savers?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U83	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U84	Those are private lenders. I don't have the statistics right now. When we talk about private individuals, there are also two other things: whether it is a private sector or a private person. I'm not going to talk about statistics right now, just in case. We're pretty high on that. But once again, when we look at the ratio to GDP, when we look at the absolute rate, we're still low.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U85	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you for your good presentation. Your previous speaker, Scholar Varblane, said that our neighbours, he also pointed out this as a positive example of having invested in human capital over a long period of years. Although their public debt per capita is about 20 times higher than Estonia's, these investments have made sense because they have gone to the people. He also pointed out that when people are helped to develop their abilities, they are more flexible and the whole country is more flexible. We here have acted the other way around. We have not invested in our people; our investments in people have been so-called pulverised. We say there's no money for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U86	My question: do you think we will ever have money if we do not invest in our people now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U87	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U88	That would be such a long answer and would go very far from today's subject. Surely we have invested, nor can we say that we have not invested at all in people. How much is it, it's a question of its own. Maybe I'd put the question the other way around. We have become middle-income land from low-income countries. This has actually been managed by many, many countries. But those countries that have become rich countries on average incomes can be counted on the fingers of one hand. It is clear that these policies that were driven from a lower level to an intermediate level are one policy, and then you just have to change the genetic code to get above that average level. The same policies and the same methods can no longer be done, cannot be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U89	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos! Please press the "Word" key! You didn't? So let us take the Urve Tiidus question and, in the meantime, try to find a technical solution. Please, Urve Tiidus! There's no connection either. Let's take a one-minute break. We'll continue at 12:30.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U90	Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U91	Dear waitress, Academician Urmas Varblane also spoke in a very thorough presentation about the fact that, at this difficult moment, China is setting up aid packages for Europe and America, or rather is forced to do so because of its own problems. This is a very forward-looking question, but how could it affect Estonia? I understand that divination is an ungrateful job, but if you think about this direction of Chinese domination, let's say, a much greater dominance than before, how does it affect Europe, Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U92	I don't think we could have a private meeting for that. I don't know what to say here in a few minutes. Overall, we are not competitive compared to China and the greater the free trade, the greater the pressure from that side that our incomes must decrease, because most things are done cheaper in China. That may be all in short, but fortunately there are still a great many European countries before us, which have a much bigger problem. However, the aid package is simply one measure to prevent this system from collapsing. That's not what China's goal is, is it? They don't want anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U93	Thank you. We have another voice in parallel here. Hopefully, this technical problem will soon be dealt with. We are now continuing with Urve Tiidu, who also missed a question. Neeme the Great will be next. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, My question is very simple. It is an old belief that someone wins from every crisis. Who will win from this crisis or what will we gain from it after the wisdom that we have now gained from all areas, from the financial sector, from the banking sector, and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U95	I do not agree with the argument that in every crisis, someone wins. Someone loses less than that, I agree. Usually everything loses in a crisis, but someone loses less. The question is, how long is the perspective again? Now I don't see that anyone here is a very big winner. Some may say that Germany is a great winner, but Germany must also understand that the savings invested in bonds from different countries and elsewhere are no longer worth as much as they thought they were worth.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U96	Thank you. In the meantime, for the information of the questioners, it would also be known in the hall: due to this technical failure, we added four minutes to the question-and-answer time. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U97	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! There are many alliances in the European Union, we have an economic union, we have a customs union, we have a monetary union, we have a Schengen visa space. In fact, it simply shows that Europe has very different interests internally because of the diversity of its countries. Every time a special interest emerges, as is the case, for example, in the case of England, which has resigned from the last agreement, the idea arises of whether the Treaty on the European Union really holds. Will there still not be a need at one point to substantially change the principles of the European Union, and we will have several Europes? How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U98	Thank you. In my opinion, this is basically the only way to solve the crisis more quickly. Tell them we're making a stronger alliance here, and everyone who wants to stay in a room that doesn't want to go out. Give some six months to think, discuss at home. But in such a way that every month the Council comes together, it will decide something that has no substance at all, and this cannot last for long. Just as it was decided last week that now we will automatically impose fines on those who have a budget that exceeds a certain percentage. If someone thought that the budget surplus would be 9.5%, it would be 10.5%, there would be no money, how would you fine him? What are you doing with a country like that? You can make any decision, but if there's no mechanism, it won't help. Even the same increase in the EFSF limit a month ago was increased from 440 billion to 1 trillion, but then it turns out that there is no one who would like to come and put that money there. It's just a little circus.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U99	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U100	Thank you. Honourable waitress. In your presentation, you mentioned possible options as solutions to the crisis: cuts, the path of inflation, centralisation of power. Isn't it like we're finally going to see a combination of all of these components, that we're not getting out of any of these elements? It should, of course, be our interest not to allow inflation components to dominate, so that the main thing is not to cut down, as you said, but to regulate public finances more broadly. Increases in revenue are also included. So as a solution to the crisis, we still see a combination of these three elements.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U101	Yeah, I've always stressed that there are no clean scenarios. There is a cropping scenario, cut down and, at the same time, those who have to cut, on a leash, are not put on a printing press. All the time, power is centralized. This is to see what lies ahead with this scenario: all the time, gradually, slowly. If, for example, we draw a parallel with 2008 when Lehman Brothers collapsed, then the Minister of Finance then called the heads of the large banks and said that you are now taking so much of the state's equity. They didn't understand why they needed it. It's like it's okay. But to put a firewall so the crisis doesn't go on into the economy. I am saying this to show how decisively the continuation of this crisis was fought in the United States in 2008. If we compare it with what is happening now in Europe, it is like night and day.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U102	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U103	Thank you. We saw recently, a few years ago and, to some extent, we still see how the public sector is trying to boost the private sector. If one country does so, how do you see the "border effect" of this activity? If there is a country, such as Estonia, which does not, but its export partners do so, how will it affect the economy of that country, which does not, like Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U104	It's working very well. In 2009 or sometime, I laughed that it was good and easy for us to live: the Swedish state gave guarantees to our banks, the Finnish state gave jobs to its construction companies, and our builders went to Finland to build and Air Baltic and we flew to Europe at the expense of the Latvian taxpayer. It was then that they were left with debts, but we didn't have any debt. That was the result.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U105	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U106	Thank you. Dear Indrek Neivelt! There was a catch in your report. You said that those countries that represent this lobby group, who have large savings, should support cuts as a means of exiting the debt crisis, and those with large loans could encourage inflation growth. This hook was immediately swallowed by Aivar Sõerd, who announced that our interest should be to suppress the inflationary component. Would you be more specific that if European governments were more comfortable to go to the inflation component, how will it happen then? It's not like just one printery gets a bigger order. Where does this decision come from, and how does it start to scroll like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U107	Thank you. Please, good colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U108	The way the European Central Bank behaves, how much it buys and at the same time how much money it collects on the market must be monitored. It is very difficult, it should monitor several money offers, not only base money M0 or M1, but also from a further distance, M3, M4. For example, you could ask the Minister of Finance or the Governor of Eesti Pank about this, who would report to you once a quarter on, for example, how the supply of money in Europe has increased. It could be pretty interesting to watch.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Indrek Neivelt! I also thank you for your presentation. The previous waitress, the academician Urmas Varblane, answered one question, addressed the subject a little bit. How do you predict whether there will be more than 17 countries using the euro after one year or half, or if there will be fewer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U110	The number of countries in the European euro zone is, in principle, a question for astrologers. I don't think there will be any more in two years, I don't want to believe that. I don't think there's anyone coming right now. In this sense, there is still time for you to follow your own rules first. There's not a lot of brave people jumping in right now. I think it would make sense if there were less. That's my personal opinion. I think some countries should have been punished earlier and tried what would happen, others would know. It's like raising a child that if you don't punish, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U111	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U112	Thank you very much for your concluding and forward presentation. In the economy, such competition for ideas and interests is beneficial. In economic policy and politics in general, when we are talking about political risks here, it is clear that someone must also be against centralisation. If everyone is in favour of centralisation with great fear and sees only a solution in it, then the centre of clogged life is run over somewhere at the next extreme and there are new threats, something about labour productivity planning, migration, corruption. Why is centralization supposed to be the only way to get the money done? Is there any reason to believe that centralisation will end where there is Germany, where there is a German monetary culture? But maybe it doesn't end in Frankfurt or Brussels, but ends in Naples?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U113	Thank you. Question time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U114	Again, it is very difficult to answer that question. In principle, everyone understands that not all countries can be like Germany. The surplus on the German current account is in the order of €130.140 billion per year, i.e. its exports are higher than its imports. Not all countries can afford such a thing as a surplus; no one must have a shortage. Unless we're going to deliver our goods to Mars and offer our services somewhere outside. In fact, it can't be that everything is mini-Germany exactly according to German rules. This cannot be the case, and there must still be some movement of money across national borders. But, of course, if there's so much left, there's somewhere that's missing. It can't be that everything is in balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U115	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U116	Thank you, Madam President. For my part, thank you for a good report and good answers. My question concerns the economic situation. At present, the nationalisation of banks is taking place, on the one hand, and privatisation of public undertakings, on the other. But one way or another, the opinion is that neoliberal politics and the economic model are the landscape for this crisis. What do you mean, how does this economic model have to change in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U117	Thank you. I think that too much is being done at the moment to keep the existing system going. That we're gonna put some more money on it, even if we're borrowing from the Chinese or Russia or somebody else, so we can keep this system status quo. Actually, the system doesn't work anymore. This model, which is now, shows that it is tearing from all sides. In my opinion, one key word is that more responsibility is needed. The problem with the current crisis is that politicians are in fact irresponsible. In order to be chosen, great promises are made. Big business executives, stock company executives are thinking about how to survive the next quarterly report so no one can take you down. Back in the day, there were family businesses, thought I'd have to pass on my company to my son, and then I'd have to go on from there. But now the horizon's three months, if I don't show good results, they'll take it down. And that's when such short-term decisions are made, both by corporate leaders and politicians. This is, in my opinion, what has caused this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U118	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U119	Thank you, good waitress, for a very interesting presentation. Every time we discuss the European Union here, I remember a Russian proverb that one has a liquid soup and the other has small pearls. In fact, this European Union is very uneven, even in a crisis situation, even if we look, I don't know, the proportion of the elderly or the ivet or whatever. We are always talking about the standard of living inevitably moving downwards. How proportionate do you think this is gonna happen? And once again using this soup and pearl metaphor, does Estonia have the slightest chance of moving up this ladder and discussing pearls rather than soup?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U120	I also said in my speech that it is likely that, since our level is lower, we should be more flexible. We do not have a trade union like that in other countries, which takes very much of this flexibility away. That's where we're kind of prepared. But as to whether there are differences and how much they mix, it can be said that the glass is either half empty or half full, that on the other hand, differences certainly enrich.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U121	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U122	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a simple question. You talked about the fact that we in Europe are currently constantly being cut off and these troubled countries are being held on a leash. It didn't sound like you were in favour of printing money as an important component in solving the problem. Such German thinking has been somewhat softened lately, but it is generally opposed. I don't think it's just because it goes against some cult economist's theory. There are also likely to be some macroeconomic risks associated with printing money. Do you consider them important or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U123	Thank you. I consider them very important. As the previous speaker mentioned, if we give such a signal that there is no point in storing it, it will be passed on to the next generations, and this is certainly not a good signal. But the reason why I'm more in favour of inflation is that I think it's less painful than going along this spiral right now, that we're going to die and the economy is going down. For example, if the public debt burden is 80% of 80% of GDP and we assume that the economy will fall by 5% and the budget will be more than 5% in deficit, think about what the percentage of public debt will be next year! Although they did a good job, they cut their expenses. You just go into the spiral and it's really hard to get out. Why in the old days, when all countries had their own currency and the country ran into it economically, was mostly devalued more than needed? 'Cause you get to the bottom of it, then you start going up. But the current endless downward movement is very difficult and long-lasting.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U124	That concludes the part of the questions and answers on this item. Thank you very much to the waitress, Indrek Neivelt. [[Let's hear it.]] I'm opening negotiations. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today's debate has benefited the Riigikogu in many respects. At the beginning of the autumn session, when the government was in a hurry to push the ratification of the euro rescue package through the Riigikogu, a promise was made that sometime after the final vote of the EFSF, the issue would be discussed more substantially in the Riigikogu. Somehow, however, this was feared and no real desire to do so, for example, is still unnoticed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I therefore think that today's very substantive presentations by experts and the opportunity to ask questions were essential both for the public and for us to signal that this House of Riigikogu is precisely the place where we need to speak more about the European debt crisis and its implications for Estonia. While in Estonia's media space, it is, of course, clear that the reason behind the debt crisis is not an improvement, because reality in the context of the European debt crisis, however, focuses only on a long-term solution and, in the short term, the stability of the euro area remains on very thin ice. There is no common philosophical understanding of the solutions to the crisis in Europe. When the crisis broke out, it was done in almost all countries except Estonia, but now it has been agreed that mitigation must be followed by cuts. As in the crisis of the 1930s, the two were commuted, there is now a common understanding of what should be done, not born. A new fiscal agreement and stronger economic policy coordination were agreed at the Brussels European Council last Friday. The new fiscal discipline is based on the government's fiscal balance requirement, which means that the annual structural deficit cannot exceed 0.5% of GDP. In addition to the nominal fiscal position, the structurally balanced budgetary position takes account of the cyclical nature of the economy and of one-off circumstances. In addition, Member States must also write this requirement at the level of the Constitution or equivalent legislation in their legal system, and it is very important that automatic sanctions have been agreed which will apply if the country violates the rules. It also decided to accelerate the entry into force of the ESM Treaty. In a situation that has changed for us, it will enter into force as soon as it has been ratified by the Member States representing 90% of the capital commitments. Our own government also supported the abolition of the principle of consensus. Broadly speaking, the objective is then that the ESM will enter into force in July 2012. But the situation is changing in days, and four days after the last agreement, we are in a situation where interest rates on Italian bonds are growing again and the same trend is also on Spanish bond interest rates. The credit rating agency Moody's has assessed the last government crisis session that it is simply one of the many summits during the crisis that did not offer anything new. Indrek Neivelt, the economic expert who made the same statement to us, shared the same view. But for Estonia, it is also important to make these decisions that if our Prime Minister goes to such meetings and is ready to give away part of Estonia's sovereignty, then where will he take the power to do so? This time, the British Head of Government vetoed the amendment of the Treaty on European Union, but our Prime Minister would otherwise have without hesitation made a promise for which he did not have the authority. The Prime Minister has only borrowed his position from the voters and has no right to continue to borrow the decision-making power borrowed. At least not if he has not received the authority to do so. It is said that the new requirements for budget deficits are not a problem for Estonia, because the structural fiscal position in Estonia was in surplus even in 2009, it is also one-sided. By giving priority to meeting such criteria, Estonia has been a land of rapid tax increases and huge cuts, which has caused serious problems for the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U126	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U127	But our budget is in good shape precisely because these criteria have been given priority. The current economic recovery policy of our export destination countries will certainly play a role in this. If we now recommend to all these countries that you pursue only cuts, consider this to be the only possible solution, we will ignore the fact that the planned balance of our budget remains largely on exports to these same countries. What gives us reason to expect that the goods and services produced in Estonia will not lose the market in countries switching to the plan? Figuratively speaking, we expect the funds that should be invested in growth-enhancing instruments to be spent only on rapid debt reduction. Therefore, the claim that the Estonian state has a small debt and we should favour cuts and resist inflationary funds in every way ignores the fact that Estonian people and companies still have a pretty high debt burden at European level. As a result of the debt crisis, Europe is becoming an ever-increasing Union of States. This means, however, that the European Union's role in Member States' tax policies is becoming increasingly important. One problem is definitely the lack of a so-called "classical company tax" in Estonia. As early as 2004, Sarkozy was upset that there were countries in Europe that were poor enough to receive various subsidies, but rich enough to deal with dumping, which is undoubtedly the exemption of reinvested profits from income tax. Last week, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy recommended in a joint letter to the President of the European Council, Herman van Rompuy, that a single corporate tax be introduced in the future. This would mean a change in the current corporate tax system in Estonia. We also need to review Estonia's tax solutions in the European context, because presently the most wealthy people have been given a gift and people with lower incomes are burdened with excessive taxes. In the context of this huge European debt crisis, Estonia should also abandon double standards in its attitude towards Europe, where wrong policies are prepared to pay for their own budget with money, but fair solutions are refused to take over Europe at all costs. I hope that such debates as we will see today in the Chamber of Riigikogu will continue, and I expect that next will be the initiative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, which has certainly been set up to hold more serious debates on this subject. Thank you to all those who have survived to the end of the hall! I think that such a large and active participation, where not all the questioners were able to put their questions to the performers, demonstrates the need for such debates here in the Riigikogu's plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U128	Thank you very much, Kadri Simson. Next, I would like to ask Aivar Sõerd as a representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The vast majority of experts clearly agree that solving the European debt crisis is of common interest to all of us and in our interests. That's what our very good waitresses said. Non-recognition and non-solving of the problem will most likely lead to a global economic downturn with associated unemployment and political instability. The causes of the European debt crisis are numerous. There has been talk about the competitiveness crisis, the banking crisis, credibility and the political crisis, but the main root cause is the long-term unsustainable fiscal policy of most European countries and the long-term unfulfilled desire to build a welfare society by means of loans. The loan must be repaid with costly interest. Those countries that are overpowering have already spent their budget for next year, and some have spent their budgets for the next few years. Also, the agreed rules have not been respected, which is one of the causes of the crisis. Estonia has implemented a different, rational and forward-looking fiscal policy. At the moment, we must help to resolve a situation which we are not guilty of in any way. The decision-makers of the European Union have been accused of not being fast enough and not having the necessary effect. The decisions of the European Council, which ended on Friday morning last week, were so effective as to have been able to have a small impact on the financial markets. True, in the first few days since the decision, this effect has not been excessive, but it can be expected that a change has taken place. It is very important how the decisions of the Council will actually be implemented, and a number of regulations still need to be finalised. Estonia has made it very clear that it is ready to participate in the decision-making process, and our contribution is certainly very valuable. It is very easy to criticise and detract from the role of observer-critist, but here I would like to call on all the political parties represented in the Riigikogu to make concrete proposals. Constructive criticism must, of course, be part of the process, but I would expect concrete proposals or concrete alternatives, particularly from the group that voted against joining the stability mechanism. They haven't been heard. The leaders of the European Union decided by the last decision to step up their efforts in the design of monetary policy and to strengthen the reconciliation of detention so far. Obviously, they're on the right track here. Unfortunately, the country's debt burden will increase as long as the budgets are in deficit. A deficit of 3% of GDP must also be financed from some source. And if the state has no reserves, then only a loan can be such a source. Thus, the country's debt burden can only start to decrease in a fiscal balance situation, and setting this principle in a country's agreement is essential for resolving the situation and making progress. Estonia is one of the few Member States that has managed to balance the budget. It is true that our budget for next year is also planned to be in deficit because of one-off effects. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U130	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U131	However, in the light of the decision of the last Council, we too must continue to be even more conservative. The budgets of the Member States shall be in balance or in surplus in the future and this principle shall be deemed to be met if the annual structural deficit does not exceed 0,5%. In September, we discussed the issue of guaranteeing debt to the European Financial Stability Fund in the Riigikogu. The parties that contributed to this process realised that no one had a better solution. As a result of the latest decisions, the Stability Fund will become stronger and the permanent fund ESM will be brought forward. The measures already agreed by EU finance ministers, namely the partial guarantee of bonds and the creation of co-investment funds, will be added. So agreements should essentially be changes to the Treaty, but unfortunately the political reality is that only an agreement between the Member States was reached. But this is certainly progress and it cannot be expected that the long-term debt crisis can be resolved quickly and effectively. Obviously, these are tangible and far beyond today, but there is still a long way to go to resolve the crisis. Obviously, we also have a great deal of work to do, and the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs has a crucial role to play. The Commission must have the capacity to intervene if the government's proposals are not the same as the understanding of the majority of the Riigikogu. The previous speaker's argument that the last Council did not have the Prime Minister's powers is incorrect. Please see what mandate ELAK gave and what position the Estonian state had! Once again, however, a suggestion to the critics: make concrete proposals, propose alternatives! Each debate, constructive debate, is constructive and is beneficial. But we still have a very big job to do when we participate in the resolution of the crisis. Good luck to all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U132	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask Mrs Vasiliev as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, as many as you are left in the Chamber! The most important thing that we and, in fact, in the wider world, have to learn from today's debt crisis and directly related to it, and from the financial crisis that preceded it, is that the extreme methods of the economy do not work in the long term. It does not work to worship market fundamentalism, to believe blindly that the invisible hand solves all problems flawlessly, and the same way to believe that living in the public sector for a long time beyond force and ability is in no way avenging or that public money can support the private sector without undue thought. In the economy, it is important that it is stable and has greater potential, a sensible, flexible and balanced approach. This is in terms of free market, national and transnational institutions. This is undoubtedly a challenge for the world, it is undoubtedly a challenge for Europe, and it is undoubtedly a challenge for Estonia, because here, unfortunately, we have also tended to one extreme. When we talk about the debt crisis in Europe, the key to it is not just conservative budget cuts, which the impression of the media, when you look at the statements made by members of the government, can often remain. For markets, this is too long-term and will not restore market confidence alone. If we look at the Italian aftermarket sales that took place yesterday and are very much focused today, the yield on 10-year bonds went far above 7%, which has been highlighted here today and is quite a critical limit. Only the central bank could buy it back there at 7%. So, in fact, there has been no fundamental change in the markets within the framework of these same decisions last week, and I think that this should be recognised honestly. As far as last week is concerned, it is certainly right and reasonable, in the long term, to agree on the budgetary frameworks to be maintained and the corresponding penalties if these rules are not complied with. In this respect, the problem for the social democrats is certainly British right-wing behaviour and very clearly the preference of national interests. A somewhat populist approach can also be taken into account by favouring national interests, because I am absolutely not sure that this approach will benefit the British in the long term. It is certainly vital for us that Europe is united and that Europe is operational. In addition to what was agreed last week, it is undoubtedly extremely important to know that today's central bank, whose main activity should be to ensure price stability, is unable to operate for a long time in competition with such limited-function world central banks. Therefore, the functions of the European Central Bank should certainly be extended. Of course, this means that there must be a framework that enables it to operate in the long term. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U134	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U135	This, in turn, means that countries must abandon the various dogmas. Certainly, as a result of history, several European countries have reasons why this flexible and balanced approach is difficult to push through in their own countries. For Estonia, a united Europe and a functioning Europe are undoubtedly very important. It is important for economic policy, but in fact it is equally important for geopolitical purposes. This means that, from time to time, we have to make difficult decisions, which perhaps we may not like ourselves, which our constituents may not like, and certainly is an opportunity for a kind of populism. Given that Estonia has a very open economy and our recovery is currently largely based on exports, which in turn has gained additional opportunities because certain countries have supported their economies with public money. And the negative effects of the recession in the global economy, the recession in the European economy, we saw very drastically when Estonia had to survive the 20% recession. It must therefore be said that it is extremely important for us what is happening in Europe, what is happening in the world. We cannot agree in any way with the approach expressed by the Ministry of Finance in spring that what is happening in Europe and in America is not a threat for Estonia. The August economic forecast, on which our budget has been built, did slightly change this attitude, saying that this threat exists, but it is unlikely to materialise. I think this is where our government has clearly underestimated today's risks. I started by finding a balance in the economy for the future, and with this balance I would also like to end. I would like to use the words of Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz, which sums up very well what the Social Democrats see as the challenges facing the European and world economies, as well as the Estonian economy. Are we using the opportunity to create a new financial system that would do what people expect of it; to create a new economic system where the gap between rich and poor would not widen, but narrow down; and, most importantly, to create a new society in which every person would be able to make dreams and realise their potential, where citizens would develop living according to common ideals and values, where a community would develop a respect for our planet, which in the long run is inevitable? These are possibilities. There is a serious risk that we will miss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U136	Thank you very much. Please represent the Group of the Margus Tsahkna Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U137	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Today's topic, which has been discussed in this Chamber, is a very serious issue that all European countries, and not only European countries, must face. Against the background of the European debt crisis, the economic crisis, very little has been said about the same crisis in the United States. What are the effects that will be and what is already in this global crisis in the world economy, we do not really know. Perhaps we, as members of the Estonian Riigikogu, are also asked why we are discussing this, after all, nothing depends on us. I think that precisely because we are a full member of the European Union, the euro zone, our word is at least formally and morally the same weight as the largest countries in this association. All the more so, we must speak out loudly and on the basis of justice about these problems and concrete steps, as my colleague Aivar Sõerd said here before in his speech, and we must do this boldly. Since Estonia is an open economy and a very small open economy, this first crisis has perhaps reached us the most painfully. Indeed, our economy fell, our unemployment increased dramatically. However, I would like to say to all my fellow Members from all political parties that I believe that our political parties, as well as Parliament at the time, had an adequate assessment of this situation. We had the objective of joining the euro area, but I am still sure that without this goal we should have taken the steps that we have taken. We cut public spending, we set ourselves the goal of achieving a budgetary balance, or at least not going negative by more than 3%, which we jointly managed to do here. Therefore, while we are in a debt crisis, it is precisely at international level that we have the moral right to talk about this issue, and our colleagues from other European countries have also come here and asked us how we were able to make these decisions in our own country in such a way that they had the support of the people. Now most other European countries are faced with exactly the same or even more drastic decisions, because up until now, they wanted to close their eyes to the truth. The European Union and the euro area have been accused of slow decision-making and inadequate in this sense, as one rapporteur here said earlier, of looking at the short term. It has been accused that we are an alliance of nation states in the sense that internal elections are constantly taking place in some countries. The last summit also showed that, perhaps for internal policy reasons, Britain decided not to support consensus policy. These debates, which are currently taking place in Britain, are not the driving force behind the debt crisis and the economic crisis in Europe. All the more so as a nation state, we must also be careful and watch out for us not to go against amending the European Union's Treaties without discussion. We also need to keep these discussions in our society because, in the economic crisis that is global today, value policy is being replaced by more practical decisions. That is why I think that, in the long term, it is the Estonian state that must continue to speak about economic policy and monetary policy based on values. Two years ago, as an IRL party, I started to talk about the fact that, in addition to public sector cuts, we need to introduce a budgetary balance requirement into the Constitution. Now Europe has come to the point that this idea has been endorsed at the top of its head. I am pleased to note that, although there were views that there may or may not be any point in introducing this provision into the Constitution, this system must at least be incorporated into the basic law of the budget. The Ministry of Finance is already preparing this draft to send it to us for discussion and hopefully also for adoption. Like other European countries, we have elections at national level every four years, and as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I see how our people were with us at this difficult moment when we had to make cuts. So, in fact, there was support from society. However, the Estonian people ask us, I think, whether we must continue to go a conservative route, continue to cut our spending, continue to monitor the balance of the budget in a situation where, as the country with the lowest budget debt, we could borrow and meet those expectations, which are largely social. I also see that, over the next few years, there will certainly be a political temptation to give people very big promises to go down the road of increasing debt, or some other way of increasing social benefits and social support. Here I want to say that Estonia must continue to follow a conservative line and, rather, to reach each person personally through the effectiveness of its state order. I'm throwing up a particular thought here. Perhaps when we start discussing whether to include the principle of budgetary balance in the basic law of the state budget, we should also consider whether we should not give the Riigikogu, the Parliament, the right to impose, for example, a ceiling of state spending on a three- or four-year cycle. It will provide the government not only for a year, but also for the coming years with specific frameworks to take account of possible expenditure ceilings and to correct its policies in this respect. That is an idea that I would like to add to today's debate. I would like Estonia's voice to be as clear and understandable as possible through all of us, through the government in Europe and in all those international organisations that deal with the international debt crisis, because we are one of the few countries that have a moral basis for it and have experience. Good luck, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U138	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations on this item. The debate on the key national issue 'European debt crisis and its impact on Estonia' is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U139	We will move to the next item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Public Transport Act and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Tõniste, Member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Economic Commission on 6 December 2011. The amendments presented were presented and commented by Rein Lätt, Adviser to the Road and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Priit Vene, Head of Transport and Traffic Services. Priit Russia explained that it was initially proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as well as by the Association of Car Companies and the Taxi Drivers Association. Two proposals were submitted by the Taxi Drivers' Association, one of which concerned the use of taxi stops. The content of this proposal was that all taxi drivers should have equal access to taxi stops. The MKM's position was not to support this, as they suggested that the whole issue of taxicab regulation, including access to taxi stops, should be seen as a collection of taxicab regulation and a major draft amendment to the Public Transport Act. The second proposal, which had to be taken from both the Taxi Drivers' Association and the Motorists' Association, asked to consider whether it would be possible to electronicise market access documents and certificates. The MKM considered this proposal, but considered that the lack of a single register of taxi drivers' certificates, for example, was an obstacle. MKM is working to make it possible to have a register of all local taxi drivers' certificates inside, which the police could also check on the road. As rapporteur for the lead committee, I also noted that the working group found that the above-mentioned proposals could not be treated properly within the framework of this draft, especially since in the first half of 2012 the Riigikogu will have a major Public Transport Act, where these issues will come in as concrete proposals that have been examined. In addition, the Commission noted that the proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, which was asked to include an amendment to the Road Act in this draft package, was omitted. The content of the proposal was to give the municipality the right to impose a penalty if, for example, the road owner did not comply with the maintenance requirement, but this provision was incorporated into the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act to be dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Commission took account of seven amendments to the consensus. It was decided to send the draft initiated by the government to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a on 13 December, propose to the Assembly that the second reading of the draft be discontinued and, if the second reading is completed, that the third reading be completed. a on 15 December, with a proposal to adopt the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U141	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Toomas Tõniste. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. The commission has proposed that the second reading be stopped and the second reading of bill 115 is hereby completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U142	Let's get to the fifth item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft Act 124 amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a speech from Reet Roosi, member of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U143	Good waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic on 124 Monday, 5 December 2011. To remind you that this is a draft with which we will make two changes. The first will, from 1 January next year, allow not only those who hold a certificate of qualification as nanny to work as nanny, but also other people who have the appropriate skills and knowledge to do so. The second amendment allows you to assign a guardian to an adult person who needs care in addition to guardianship. There were no amendments to the draft, but there were linguistic and technical clarifications to the text, which were supported by consensus by the members of the Commission. It was decided to propose a third reading of the draft 124. December 15th, to put it to a final vote and to adopt it as a law. The decision was made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U144	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Was the commission's proposal to conclude the second reading? Thank you. Any requests? There's no call. There were no amendments. As it turns out, the lead committee's proposal to stop reading is a second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U145	Our sixth item on today's agenda is the first reading of the draft law 109 on the amendment of the Law of the Government of the Republic, the Civil Service Act, the Official Offices of State Employees and the Law on grade structure and the Law on Audit Activities, initiated by members of the Riigikogu Eiki Nestor, Kalev Kotkas, Kalvi Tõvi and Sven Mikser. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It is a very simple draft law in itself, but one simple move requires several amendments to several laws. The idea of the initiators of the bill is simple: the current Government Act also provides for a post such as the Deputy Minister and our proposal is to lose this position briefly and clearly. This is for the following reasons. First of all, our Constitution already speaks of the Minister as a member of the Government of the Republic. Therefore, it is questionable, in constitutional terms, that we do not, as we know, have an assistant government. Secondly, this position has also caused ambiguity in the overall governance structure. Today, we have clear who the minister is without a portfolio. This is a minister who is set up on the basis of a political agreement and is also given responsibilities. We are also clear, for example, that there may be two ministers in one ministry. In this case, it is clear, at the level of the law, which of these ministers is involved in the work. This is the case now in the Ministry of the Interior and it cannot be ruled out in the future in any other ministry. However, such a solution also means that if, for example, another ministerial position is created in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it is clear what one minister and the other are dealing with. It was given as an example. There's no such clarity about the assistant minister. The real life turned out to be that, when this place was filled, it caused a certain misunderstanding in the ministries, it was not known whether to communicate with the minister or the assistant minister, and it also caused certain misunderstandings, for example, in cooperation with the Riigikogu and executive power. This is perhaps the most obvious example of a situation where, at second reading of the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic, the Commission's Deputy Minister arrived with a number of amendments and announced that they were the initiators of the draft. Let's just say that these changes were not very sensible, but were carried by certain simple private interests. Thanks to God, the representatives of the people supporting the power union continued to understand this and to disown the changes made by the so-called government. Later, of course, it became clear that the Minister was not aware of them at all. It also creates ambiguity in the cooperation between the Riigikogu and the executive power. Hence our proposal to lose this position, because in reality those people who have carried this title have, in essence, been more of a minister's advisor and, therefore, it would be wise to still call advisers in the future. If, then, someone has a claim or a big goal to make a personal CV look better, they should still become a minister rather than remain in an inappropriate position as an assistant minister. The Commission asked why we are presenting this draft right now, because, as we know, there are no aid ministers on this post. The government also indicated that, therefore, the draft would not be up-to-date. I admit that if the office had been filled in in some ministries, it would probably be much more difficult to present this bill than impossible at all, because then it would look like such a personal attack on someone, and the initiators of this bill do not remember. So if this position is removed from the law and other laws of the Government of our Republic, now is the time, because it does not seem like an attack on some person. They also asked why now. I reply honestly, as the Commission did, that during the drafting of another draft, this paragraph stood out for itself as a surprise. That is why the idea had to be corrected in the law, and so the proposal was made. On behalf of the initiators of the draft act, you will also thank the Commission for its sensible and good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U147	Thank you very much. There's a question for the waitress. Please, Tõnis Lukas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U148	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Nestor! So you think that only help is enough for the Minister, that you don't have to be a minister, that the Minister is enough. I agree with you, if you know how to drive, you don't even have to have auxiliary wheels. But I ask, where will our policy in the future come from, where will the post-growth of ministers come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U149	Good colleague Tõnis! I think we're done reading the bill. I guess you're proposing not to lose the office of assistant minister described in the law and to call him either a junior minister or a successor minister. I understand you're not proposing that. Okay, I've speculated a little on your account unacceptably. I guess this post-growth comes first and foremost from this hall, which I think is more sensible for future ministers on the breeding ground. If they do not have the experience of this hall, it will later be very difficult for them to do their job as minister. That would be best. And those positions, which are currently permitted by law, which are filled and in every way reasonable, where the minister is assisted as advisors in the day-to-day work, would be, for example, a good breeding ground for getting to this hall. But it's the kind of idea we probably can't get into the law. Here, the voters first say their word, and they decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U150	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Lukas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U151	Since neither the respected verbatim nor its potential future readers may understand your jokes well, I repeat: I am in favour of losing the post of assistant minister from the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U152	So I'm going to go over it: that's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U153	Got it. No further questions. Thank you, Eiki Nestor! Indrek Saare, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will be asked for a co-report!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U154	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law. a at its meeting on 6 December. Tiina Runthal, representative of the initiator Eiki Nestor and adviser to the Legal Order Service of the Ministry of Justice, had been invited to the debate on the first item. Eiki Nestor gave a fairly comprehensive overview of what was being discussed. It should be mentioned that it was also possible to discuss whether the coalition should take the opposition's draft seriously. It was possible to discuss whether the executive authorities were entitled to say whether they were willing or willing to discuss the legislators' initiatives or whether they had to discuss them in any case, regardless of the outcome. They were also able to express their political spirit. But finally, see the surprise, it was decided to consensually propose to the assembly to stop the first reading of the draft and also, consensually, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the deadline for submitting amendments be set. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency
ParlaMint-EE_2011-12-13_U155	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee was to conclude the first reading of the draft 109. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the 109 amendments. December 28th at 4 p.m. That concludes our agenda, and today's session is over. Thank you very much to all participants, to all those who prepared the debate on a matter of national importance, and to those who took part in it. Have a nice day! Closure of the sitting at 1.43 p.m.
