ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the sixth Thursday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. From the outset, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuusi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When the Central Party Group warned a few years ago that we would be facing a very large exodus of nurses in the coming years, the Minister did not consider this likely. Today, we see that going to work abroad has become a major problem, sometimes even greater than leaving doctors. Estonia has become a so-called Nordic donor for nursing workers. For example, 201 nurses took out a medical certificate last year and it can be said with certainty that all of them have more or less gone from here, too, the state fee for this certificate is very high. I don't think anyone's gonna take it either. At the same time, we only trained 134 sisters. The low salaries of nurses, the poor working conditions, the overload, that's what forces the nurses to leave. Hannes Danilov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Health Insurance Fund, has also drawn attention to this, and the OECD has also noted the small ratio of nurses in Estonia. In this context, the Centre Party Group has a number of questions for the Minister: why it has allowed such a situation to arise, what has been done, what is going on from training and so many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U3	Priit Toobali, the speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and ten other members of the Central Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to the Chancellor of Justice regarding the organisation of elections, mainly the organisation of e-elections: 'In comparing voting with electronic voting regulations, it can be concluded that voting regulations with voting notes are detailed, but the regulation of electronic voting is general and does not go into detail, leaving many issues open. In addition, there is no regulation of voting procedures by the voter in electronic voting, because the voter votes in a place of his choice and with available technical means, which are often occupied with malware and all the resulting risk is borne by the voter. ' All of this has also been highlighted by the report just prepared by the OSCE, which concerns the 2011 parliamentary elections in Estonia. On this basis, we have a total of six questions for the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U5	I ask the Olga Stranger of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over, together with my colleagues, the inquiry from the Centre Party Group to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The topic is the suspension of payments from the European Regional Development Fund. In November last year, the European Court of Auditors reportedly carried out an audit of eight projects financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) implemented by EAS. Three projects were discovered during the audit, which could cover expenditure for which no funds were foreseen. Problems were also identified in EAS procedures and working methods. On the basis of the Court's preliminary observations, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Regional Policy has announced a temporary interruption of payments of EUR 30 million for the European Regional Development Fund actions implemented by the EAS. In this regard, we have three questions for the Minister. First of all, what changes have been made since the problems were identified in the EAS procedures? Second, " How can we assess the effectiveness of this fund in terms of achieving its objective? ' And the third question: 'The bridge financing is currently being used to ensure a consistent transfer of grants to businesses. How much financial damage can the Estonian state suffer if the deficiencies cannot be remedied? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U7	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three inquiries, and according to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. I'm going to the messages now. First of all, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Secondly, good colleagues, today, after the plenary session, the following parliamentary groups will be held in this Chamber: Estonia-Kirgiisi (the convener is Urmas Klaas) and Estonia-Norway (the convener is Olga Sõtnik). We're looking forward to active participation! Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22. Now, let's get to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U8	Today's agenda contains one item, which is the first reading of Riigikogu's Decision 'Establishment of a Council for the Award of Grant from Gambling Tax', submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the "Construction of a Council for the Award of Grants from Gambling Tax" to be sent to first reading at its meeting on 9 May and decided to initiate the draft by 6 votes to 2 with 2 abstentions. The second time, the Commission discussed the draft on 12 May and then further procedural decisions were taken. I will give a brief overview of the purpose of the draft. According to the Gambling Act, the amounts of gambling tax are allocated to the grants and the Council is required to determine these contributions. The content of today's draft is the formation of a new council, as the mandate of the XI Riigikogu has ended. According to § 7 (2) (4) of the Gambling Tax Act, 37.4% of the gambling tax received by the state budget is allocated to support projects for sport, science, education, culture, children, youth, family, medical, welfare and elderly and disabled persons. Pursuant to subsection 4 of the same section, applications for these grants are examined and the nine-member council formed by the Riigikogu decides on the granting of grants and their size, the composition of which we are about to decide. This council must include six members of the Riigikogu, one representative from the Ministry of Education and Research, one from the Ministry of Culture and one from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The members of the XI Riigikogu who are currently in office, whose mandate has already ended, will carry out their duties in the Council until the new members have been appointed by the Riigikogu. Candidates from among the members of the Riigikogu are presented in the draft on the basis of proposals from the Riigikogu political groups. The political groups received six names. The representatives of the ministries were guided by the proposals of the ministries. Today, you have a draft decision on the table, which contains nine members, as I said, six members of the Riigikogu and three from different ministries. For the sake of protocol, I will read these names to you in alphabetical order: Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research Janar Holm, Members of the Riigikogu Kaia Iva, Siim Kabrits, Kalev Kotkas, Lauri Luik and Meelis Mälberg, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs Riho Rahuoja, Member of the Riigikogu Mailis Reps and Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture Siim Sukles. No amendments were received by the deadline of 11 May. For its part, the Commission made an additional change to the technical specification of the standard by consensus, by which it set the date of entry into force of the decision when it was signed. Finally, the Commission took the following decision: to put the draft on the agenda in this large Chamber on 19 May, that is to say today, and to put it to the final vote. There were 5 votes for and 2 against, with 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U10	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U11	Dear Mr. Sester! Why did the Commission not come to the opinion that in a committee where there is no political distribution of money, the political groups of the Riigikogu should be equally represented, as I believe has been good practice in the history of the Riigikogu so far? And what is your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U12	Good questioner! The Commission sent letters to all political groups asking for up to two candidates to be submitted to the Council. The Commission received six names from all four groups. Well, we can only talk about the basis that has evolved today.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U13	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U14	Could the Commission have made another request, for example, to ask the two groups for three names?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U15	I believe that if the Commission had taken the decision to ask one group for six names, it could have done so. But we were guided by the democratic principle that all political groups should be asked. So we asked each political group two names, and some political groups decided to make one name. So exactly six of them came together and it was easier for the Commission to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-19_U16	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. We will begin the examination of the 34 amendments to the draft. One amendment has been received, and its author is the lead committee. We have examined the amendment. The position of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote at today's 34th session. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I shall put the draft decision to the final vote 34. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft 34 of the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Council for the Award of Grants from Gambling Tax" submitted by the Monetary Committee has been adopted as a decision. The first item is closed. We are not going to the second item, because we do not have any more items on the agenda. Good fellows, thank you. I wish you strength in your work! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 10:14 a.m.
