ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U2	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, ministers, constitutional officials, Excellencys, guests! I am opening the second session of the XIIth Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U3	Honourable President, Members of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Government of the Republic, Constitutional Ministers, Your Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen! We all have a good start in the parliamentary season. This August we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the restoration of Estonia's independence and, according to the Constitution, we elected the President of the Riigikogu to Estonia for the next five years of office. Congratulations again, Mr President of the Republic! [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The most important work of the autumn season in the Riigikogu is related to the budget of our country for next year. Estonia has received a number of good news about economic growth, due to the improvement in our export markets. This could lead to temptation to redistribute the fruits of economic recovery. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of us of events just a few years ago when the GDP of the Estonian economy fell at the height of the crisis, in 2008 and 2009, by almost a fifth in total. This was one of the most frightening figures in the European Union. Several analysts predicted the country's inevitable bankruptcy. Estonia succeeded, however, without the need for international loan assistance. The control of cost-benefits took place through a severe austerity and cut-off policy, only a little to support the stocks collected at better times. It was a rather ruthless decision for Parliament, the government and the citizenry. However, we have realised to ourselves that taking new loans and delaying unpleasant decisions can only exacerbate and prolong the crisis. Estonia's conservative fiscal policy and low public debt make up our backside of security when adverse trends in the global economy should return. The signs of danger have not yet disappeared and will force us to continue to be prudent in decisions and spending. Nor can we forget that the Estonian state budget, which is set as an example for countries in distress with public finances, is still in deficit and we are still on our way to balance. Dear Riigikogu! Although the biggest part of Parliament's activities is legislation, it is not our only role. We are responsible for Estonia both by making decisions that are expressed in law and by being involved in processes that have an impact on Estonia's future in its broadest sense. No one in the European Union's common family can miss responsibility either. The Community's willingness to respond to today's challenges, to maintain and develop the European Union's international impact and competitiveness depends on the behaviour of each Member State of the European Union. For Estonia, the principle of solidarity in the European Union is very important. We have received support from the Member States of the European Union during our transitional periods, and we can appreciate that. It is natural that we support partner countries in need of support and assistance as the youngest accession of the euro area. We know and feel that we're in the same boat. However, we hope that we do not have to borrow money ourselves to support our partners. Let us acknowledge that in a situation where the wages of Estonian workers were significantly reduced, where we must seriously address job retention and try to alleviate unemployment, and where we have more than twice the average service and social support as much as those in need, it would be difficult for our people to understand this. It is time to bring a well-prepared debate on the grants and guarantees provided by Estonia into this hall. I hope that both the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs will do their best to conduct this debate. We need to know what the price of support or guarantee is, because we are taking on long-term commitments as a country. The role of Parliament, and above all of our Committee on Foreign Affairs, is to provide political input in shaping Estonia's foreign policy. As a Member State of the European Union and NATO, Estonia must constantly monitor developments in the world in order to shape its positions as early as possible. It is important to prepare a report on the Asian strategy at the beginning of the session, analysing the national activities and resources needed to represent Estonia best in the future in this region. Good Riigikogu! One of the key roles of Parliament is the control of the activities of the executive. Over the past ten years, 26 different development plans have been approved in this hall. It is time to become aware of what has become of them, what has been done to implement them and what should be changed in the development plans. The Riigikogu has to view its work as a farmer if anything is sown, it must also be cared for. And one more thing. This year, the Riigikogu will be able to discuss the human development report, which deals with the development story of the Baltic countries with a similar past. The debate in Parliament provides an opportunity to analyse which decisions, which have also received severe criticism, have ultimately proved positive in Estonia's development. Time and circumstances change, Estonia always needs country-manly decisions. Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U4	Mr President, I ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U5	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Riigikogu and members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I will give my last speech to the Riigikogu today. On the one hand, five years of the country's life is a short time, on the other hand, it represents more than a quarter of the 19 years of the restored constitutional order. It would be naive to think that much would not have changed during this period, including the activities of the Riigikogu. I guess we don't always really know the depth and nature of all these changes. We tend to see the country's development history, especially recently, mainly in economic ups and downs. Smaller changes, but more important in the longer view, do not stand so brightly in the eye. But I have had the pleasure, for example, of noticing how many debates in the Committee on European Union Affairs have gradually become more meaningful, reaching the level we experience in Finland, Sweden and Denmark. The questions that need to be dealt with in the XII Riigikogu are quite different than before. There is no longer a need to meet the requirements of someone else. At the same time, we can no longer make external claims an excuse if we have left an important question to Estonia in the background. There are quite a number of issues that fall directly within the competence of a responsible democratic rule of law parliament. Now that the two decades of coming back and integrating into Europe are behind us, i.e. when we have become a normal European country (and we have done so), it is quite appropriate to apply this concept in Parliament's work as well. Respectable Riigikogu! Economic concerns are far from behind. The confusion competes with clarity both in Europe and in Estonia. We have managed to keep our costs and revenues in balance, we have done what needs to be done and what many others have either not wanted or succeeded. However, if doing the right thing is enough in the wider European picture, no economic experts are currently aware of that. Estonia's macroeconomic situation is quite good at the moment, and for this, the Estonian Parliament and the Government certainly deserve recognition. But we all know that we do not live in isolation. At the level of people's daily livelihood, the picture is much more varied. I am concerned about those who have been working for a long time, as well as those families whose real income has decreased significantly as a result of wage cuts and price increases. The news that 16% of children are constantly hungry was misleading, although it could turn into another so-called evil constant. However, let us ask: " Is all children's stomach full when they go to school? The best knowledgeers are teachers in kindergarten and school. It is from them that we can find out how the children of Estonia are doing. That is how I invite you, the good members of the Riigikogu, to ask questions, to be concerned and interested, and, together with this, to establish myself as shapers of life in Estonia, with full responsibility, your face and name. Let us always remember: the decision-maker is the Riigikogu, the directly elected representative of the people, no one else, in all important matters of state and collective life! We need in-depth discussions in the Chamber of the Riigikogu and in committees such discussions as those where the concerns and interests of the Estonian people sound. There's a cross-section of our people sitting in this hall. In this hall, the entire nation should speak with one another through the mouth of its representatives. According to the Constitution, a member of the Riigikogu is not bound by his mandate. This is not just about the right to go against the decision of my group. It also means the courage to ask the Minister of his party openly why he has presented this proposal to Parliament, but not another one. It is necessary to have the courage to ask whether the law sent to Parliament is necessary at all, or whether it is rather a work plan. The law cannot be an end in itself. The aim must be a change in Estonian society; the law must make our life together better. The law is only one possible means of achieving this desired change. That is why you could in the future reject drafts whose sole purpose is to organize, decorate, add or subtract. We haven't reached a level where there's nothing else to do but polish our silverware. This type of regulation is costly substitution, nothing more. Today, I would like to invite you, good members of the Riigikogu, to establish themselves with full responsibility as shapers of the life of Estonia and the welfare of the people living here. Only you have a direct mandate from the people. Ladies and gentlemen! As President, I am in a difficult position, ladies and gentlemen, when Kadriorg is brought together to amend several different laws. If one amendment is unconstitutional, the President can, as we know, reject the cluster change only in its entirety. This means that legal provisions that are compatible with the Constitution will not enter into force. It is no longer appropriate to deal with legislative changes with different objectives together. I beg you, take your time, discuss different areas of life separately! I also ask you, respectable members of the Riigikogu, to leave a good time between the adoption of the law and its entry into force. If your goal is to change the real life, there must be time to learn the new law, adopt it and prepare to comply with this new law. The argument that a directive or an Estonian guide must be transposed by a certain date is generally incorrect, often justifying haste. There is always enough time left to take over the European Union's guidelines, so countries that are much slower can manage. And if our own government or Parliament has been slow or unobserved for some date, will the people have to suffer? It seems that other issues tend to be tied to the guidelines in order to avoid a parliamentary debate on another problem by threatening to impose fines on the European Union. The situation in which the draft will be brought to the Riigikogu today, adopted tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will enter into force has become unacceptable in the rule of law! Every push on the voting button affects people's fate. This affects the social success and overall benefits of present and future generations, as the Constitution says. These people have the right to know about the forthcoming change and to express their views on it. Now, in an adult country, there's time for that. There's got to be time! This means that every new law must be discussed with representatives of civil society. The Riigikogu is responsible for the laws, not the government. Each member of the Riigikogu is responsible for his or her decision. Every member of the Riigikogu must be able to explain and justify the law. Honourable representatives of the people! I believe that if we get caught up in old or European models of worst models, Parliament will reduce itself from the representation of the people to a machine of law. Instead, we have the opportunity to be among the best in Europe, not to find excuses for others to do the same. Let us imagine if Estonia had brought other ways of doing things as a justification for solving financial problems! Parliament must be the place where Estonia's life, Europe's future and world affairs are discussed. It is discussed honestly and freely, in accordance with its mandate. Every ambassador should consistently ask: has one or the other of the laws previously adopted in this Chamber actually started working, changed something, made Estonia's life better? If not, the law must be amended or declared invalid. Our constitution says the government is organizing law enforcement. Our constitution also says that the Riigikogu controls the work of the government. I would also like to see no more laws adopted in this Chamber in the future, the main objective of which is to promote some specific business. That kind of thing has a simple name: corruption. We can rightly be proud that Estonia's business environment is more free and fairer than in many other developed countries. But we would be naive to believe that special interests would not seek mutually beneficial solutions in our political parties, in Parliament and in the government. These approaches must be recognised and offers rejected. It takes time to predict the effects of laws and to assess them afterwards. And now we have to take that time every time. Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I believe you agree with me that the relationship between the state and local authorities and the organisation of their work, the division of tasks and the amount of money allocated to carry out their duties are questionable and contradictory. The fact that, on a proposal from the government and with the approval of Parliament, the revenue of cities and municipalities has been consistently reduced is a fact. The Supreme Court has, however, in its ruling, called for the functions of state and local authorities to be defined and the costs necessary for their execution to be retraced and then allocated. I repeat, this is the Supreme Court's decision! And we live in the rule of law! Dear Members, have you asked yourself: in a few months' time, will Parliament be able to adopt the 2012 state budget in such a way that, together with it, the Supreme Court's decision will be enforced? Dear friends, the local government is not just an extension of state power. According to the Constitution and the general European understanding, the local community's self-government is designed to ensure democracy, so that decisions are taken at the level of power that is as close to the citizen as possible. The municipality is designed to prevent the concentration of power in the hands of the central authority; so that the most reliable people who know the local conditions best can shape the future of their home area based on the interests of the local community. Yes, this leads immediately to the idea of administrative reform and also to the question of the extent to which a city with a hundred or even four hundred thousand inhabitants is a local government unit. Do the transparency requirements that the law provides for for a municipality with 900 inhabitants also work in a city with a population of one third of the country's population and where it is impossible to claim that decisions reflect the interests of the region? Or do we need new solutions where, by "local community," we mean districts or even settlements? These decisions, also concerning the possible specific regulation of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, can only be based on an understanding of the real nature of the municipality. Respectable Riigikogu! So far, Estonia has done well in general, as confirmed by the Human Development Report. Unfortunately, we also continue to understand the mood of the revolution, the desire to dismantle and do other things. Building in one mind is much more difficult than breaking. Now we need to make the restored country stronger. We're gonna have to smooth out the rush marks, fill in the blanks. Every member of the Riigikogu plays a major role here. The good reputation of the Riigikogu is important to me; it is important to anyone who appreciates the democratic rule of law. It also depends on this reputation whether or not a democratic, balanced model of governance becomes the ultimate ownership of the people. The indiscriminate disparage of representatives of the people, elected leaders and officials in Europe and America has unfortunately confirmed Estonia as well. Of course, it is easy to incite resentment against political parties, members of the Riigikogu, one or another social group at all, offering objects of hate, instead of finding solutions to difficult questions. I guess some people do it out of stupidity, others because of vicious pursuits. Personal popularity may be sweet, but the difference between a statesman and a woman is that she puts the interests of Estonia first. The sober and rationally prudent Estonian people understand and acknowledge this. The dignified citizens of Estonia also deserve that the President, members of parliament and government, and officials at both state and local level, view the people as adults: honestly, openly and with full respect. I wish you the strength to improve the living conditions of our people, to strengthen Estonia! Thank you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U6	Thank you, Mr President. (Singing from the North)
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U7	Thanks to the Estonian Boy Choir and its conductor Hirvo Surva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, I invite Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U9	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates 13 draft laws and submits four draft resolutions of the Riigikogu. First of all, the draft Act on the ratification of the European Agreement concerning persons taking part in the proceedings of the European Court of Human Rights, the draft law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the amendment of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the amendment of the Law on the Law and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the right and the right to which the right of persons of persons of persons of persons of the law and the right of persons of persons of persons of persons of the law on the law on the law on which the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on which the law on which the law on the law on which the law on which the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U10	Thank you. I have adopted 17 draft laws on behalf of the board. If these drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the following messages: First, I will pass on the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. Secondly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 21 July Estonia's views on the Council of the European Union Directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, on the draft of the Council of the European Union Commission, and on the position of the Government of the Republic and on the Council Directive, were appointed by the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 15 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 5 September Estonia submitted its views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down rules for the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, on the Commission for European Union Affairs, and on the position and regulation of the Government of the Republic for the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 15 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Fourthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 5 September, Estonia's views on the recast of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the requirements for the reception of asylum seekers, on the draft for the European Union's Affairs Commission, and on the position of the Government of the Republic and on the directive, were appointed by the Constitutional Commission. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 15 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Fifthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 5 September, Estonia's views on the draft directive on the common procedure for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection of the European Parliament and of the Council to the European Union Commission and appointed the Constitutional Committee to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 15 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Sixthly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 5 September, Estonia submitted its views on the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on roaming on public mobile networks within the Union to the European Union Commission and appointed an Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the position and regulation of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency Seventhly, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. Estonia's views on the European Commission's Green Paper "Updating the Qualifications Directive" presented on 8 September 2005 and appointed a Committee on Culture to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 15 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Eighth, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 9 September Estonia submitted its views on the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 1999/32/EC as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels, on the draft for the European Union Affairs Committee and appointed the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Commission to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 22 September 2010 at 14 p.m. Ninth, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 9 September, Estonia presented its views on the draft Green Paper on the promotion and communication of agricultural products by the European Commission on a European strategy for promoting European tastes with high added value and appointed a Committee on Rural Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of opinions shall be s. 22 September 2010 at 14 p.m. By 10th, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic. a On 9 September Estonia submitted its views on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum health and safety requirements in relation to the risks arising from the exposure of workers to physical agents (electromagnetic fields), on the Commission for European Union Affairs and appointed the Social Committee to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 22 September 2010 at 14 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 95 members of the delegation registered as present, and 6 members of the delegation are absent. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks, so I'm gonna put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 92 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of approving the agenda, and no one was against or impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U11	Let's go to today's agenda, it's an answer to questions. The first question to be heard is the members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Lauli, Lembit Kaljuvee, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Enn Esemaa, Eldar Efendijev, Kalle Laaneti, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Repsi on 9 June. a request for information on the situation of healthcare providers in the event of a finding that they are intoxicated. I would like to ask my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Central Party Group issued an inquiry in spring to Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. Our inquiry was due to a letter of formal notice from Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, which was also submitted in the spring, which stressed that the law on police and border guards is not compatible with the Constitution in several sections. This approach was also prompted by the call of health professionals complaining that they had been subjected to the identification of a state of drink, and that they were not satisfied with it, because they lack the appropriate competence, especially in the case of alcohol-related drinks. It also runs counter to the principles of medical ethics. During the procedure, views were sought from the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Hospitals Association, the Ministry of Justice, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board. The Chancellor of Justice proposed to bring the Police and Border Guard Act into line with the Constitution, as well as to analyse the situation. In fact, the Chancellor of Justice found that the coercive introduction of the sample violates people's fundamental rights, while, on the other hand, it is extremely necessary to establish a state of drunkenness. We are asking, in this difficult situation, what are the Minister's proposals for resolving the situation so that the necessary evidence can be gathered without violating medical ethics and fundamental human rights. And there are a number of other important questions in the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U13	Thank you very much, Marika Tuus-Laul. Now please, honourable Minister of Justice, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U14	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! 12 members of the Riigikogu have really submitted to me an inquiry on 9 June concerning the situation of health care providers when they find themselves intoxicated. This is driven by a letter of formal notice from the Chancellor of Justice, where he notes that some provisions of the Police and Border Guard Act may not comply with the Constitution. I will take my time to answer these questions and say what solutions might be. The first question: "Do you see a problem as Minister of Justice in the situation described above? " I would like to make it clear that in a letter of formal notice, the Chancellor of Justice proposed to the Minister of the Interior that § 726 (1) and (6) and § 727 (5) and (9) of the Police and Border Guard Act be brought into line with the Constitution. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice also addressed the Ministry of Justice, as the issue of identifying drunkenness is regulated in the Law Enforcement Act adopted by the Riigikogu on 23 February 2011. As a result, the answer to the Police and Border Guard Act can be given by the Minister of the Interior, and the Ministry of Justice can present its views on the basis of the Law on Law Enforcement. The second question: "The Chancellor of Justice considers that, at the request of the police, the exercise of the act is an intensive violation of the fundamental rights of the person subject to the trial. At the same time, a state of drink is a constituent feature of an offence when there is a suspicion of an offence being committed in a state of drink and it is therefore necessary to establish the state of drink. What are your proposals for resolving the situation so that the necessary evidence can be gathered without prejudice to medical ethics and fundamental human rights? "In accordance with § 726 (1) and (6) and § 727 (5) and (9) of the Police and Border Guard Act, the health care provider or the national expert body is obliged to take samples of blood or biological fluid at the request of the police. The police authority may conclude an administrative contract with the health care provider for sampling, storage and transmission. There is therefore the possibility of interpretation of the Police and Border Guard Act, according to which a health care provider may be obliged to take samples even without an administrative agreement. In a letter of formal notice, the Chancellor of Justice considers that the obligation imposed by the police on health care providers to take samples on the basis of the law without an administrative agreement affects their private autonomy, which is part of the right to free self-realisation provided for in § 19 of the Constitution. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice acknowledges that the right to free self-realisation of healthcare providers would be in line with the regulation that the police would be able to oblige only those healthcare providers who have entered into such an obligation by means of an administrative agreement and thus ensure that they are able to do so. Similar provisions are contained in subsections 40 (1) and (6) and 41 (5) and (8) of the Law Enforcement Act. Unlike the Police and Border Guard Act, the Law on Law Enforcement provides that the law enforcement body is to conclude an administrative contract. It is therefore impossible to interpret here that healthcare providers could be obliged to take samples without an administrative contract. The health care provider is obliged to carry out the sampling or examination factually only on the basis of a contract with a law enforcement body. Thus, § 40 (1) and (6) and § 41 (5) and (8) of the Law Enforcement Act are compatible with the principle of proportionality under the Constitution in view of the right of the health care provider to free self-realisation. However, I admit that there may be a problem in the implementation of the law on law enforcement that health care providers do not wish to enter into an administrative contract with the law enforcement body. What happens then? In the cases provided for by the same law, where a state of drink is an element of the offence, a situation cannot arise where a person's intoxication is not established. This hypothetical problem would require further analysis and, if necessary, provision should be made for a member of the law enforcement body to have the appropriate competence or to increase the capacity of the national expert body. The third question: "How do you assess the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to provide for the corresponding statutory posts at the Estonian Forensic Institute in order to bring these standards into line with the Constitution? " As a result of the above, I am not sure that the creation of additional jobs at the Estonian Forensic Institute is necessary. Question 4: "What concrete steps do you intend to take to implement the Chancellor of Justice's proposals? " As I have said, because the law on law enforcement has been adopted at the moment and I hope that the law on the implementation of the law on law enforcement will soon begin to be dealt with, I believe that this legislation will solve the problems raised by the Chancellor of Justice. The Government plans to send the Law Enforcement Act to the Riigikogu this year. Now I would add another piece of material. In fact, on 2 September, the Chancellor of Justice has also sent a letter to both me and the Minister of the Interior stating that he will close the substantive proceedings, but will continue to follow up on this issue and will continue to follow the process of bringing both legislation and practice into line with the Constitution. This is based on the assumption that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior will cooperate in drafting a draft law on the implementation of the Law Enforcement Act, which will also solve the same problems that the heirs have pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U15	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Any questions for the waitress? Please ask questions first. There are no questions. I'm gonna call the speaker now... Ladies and gentlemen, I asked if there were any questions, but you said there were calls. There are questions. Mr. Minister of Justice, I'm sorry! After the summer break, it's gotten a little confused about which buttons to press. Please ask the first question, Mr Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U16	Mr. Minister! You're a lawyer, and the Chancellor of Justice is a lawyer. Since I'm not a lawyer, I'm forced to believe both of you. At the same time, however, the Chancellor of Justice draws attention to the fact that there is a contradiction between the two laws, between the law on law enforcement and the law on police and border guards, as well as to the fact that there is a certain ethical contradiction. It's quite confusing at all. Would it not, however, be easier and more appropriate to lay down the responsibility for refusing the sample and would remove all this sharpness?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U17	Thank you. As I said at the end of my inquiry, these questions will be resolved by the Law on Law Enforcement. I am not sure that these solutions will be what you mentioned. I believe that it is rather the same issue of the administrative agreement and the question of how it will be concluded. I think that if this law comes into being, as a doctor, you can talk about what you have as a doctor, and we are talking about what legal solutions could be to the situation, so that the evidence is not collected and health care providers do not have problems with medical ethics or contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U18	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U19	Thank you. Very honourable Minister! I have one question of principle: if there is medical manipulation against a person's will, where does that limit really run? When body fluids are taken today, for example, tomorrow, body tissues, and the day after tomorrow, the body used to conduct the crime is taken for research, for example, the body used for rape? Where's the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U20	Thank you for your question. I've never heard of anyone being taken away from a body used to commit a crime. That's new. But also, for example, the Code of Criminal Procedure sets out the limits of any physical review, and the laws state these limits. So I think that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U21	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U22	Mr. Minister! Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry I got a little stuck here with the buttons after the summer vacation, but still. I get the impression that we're trying to invent a bicycle by listening to and watching this whole discussion. Obviously, you've analyzed the laws of other countries, maybe there are happy countries somewhere where there's no conflict like this, maybe there's something you can take as an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U23	Thank you. As you can see, there are a number of problems here. This conflict is the same question as whether the integrity of a person can be violated by being subjected to some kind of sampling, and in what circumstances it is possible to do so. It's a theoretical side now. The practical side is the situation in which the health care provider is in a situation where a contract is required to do so, whether the law enforcement authority can require these samples to be taken. Here are relatively large complex questions. These "privacy interferences" are always there in criminal proceedings and these limits have been set for that purpose. Health services have exactly the same limits, such as medical examinations, etc. So I believe that in this new law we will clarify these boundaries, but inevitably the side that concerns sampling, if it is related to a certain act or to a certain composition, will remain either way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U24	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U25	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. When did this problem occur? As I do not recall in previous years, there would have been some major issues in determining the level of drunk driver's drink that have to come to Parliament's Chamber. What did it come about? Is there something wrong with the laws adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U26	To be honest, I can't even tell. I have to look at what the Chancellor of Justice has referred to in his letter, but I suppose it is again due to a change of law. Let's just say we're constantly discovering some kind of law that has interference with privacy and could be more effective and better. Only recently, the Riigikogu also adopted amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, where there were more than 300. It was also aimed, in fact, at the same things that specifically concern better protection of the fundamental rights of individuals, better protection of minors. Let's say as a law-maker, you've been doing this job all the time, and if there are any shortcomings, let's fix it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U27	No further questions. Thank you once again, Minister of Justice. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague Viktor Vassilyev to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U28	Madam President of the Riigikogu! Once again, I'm sorry that I was wrong with the button! Indeed, the buttons are a little forgotten in the summer. Yes, there are indeed legal contradictions on this issue. Hopefully, these legal contradictions will be resolved, but I still want to talk to the doctor about it. You see, the World Medical Association has already adopted the International Code of Medical Ethics in 1949. It says that the doctor is committed to providing professional health care, while being professionally and morally completely independent and respecting the principles of human dignity. It's not a new principle, it's exactly the same as the Hippocratic oath. As far as there are doctors in the world, they all act to avoid human suffering, reduce pain, cure disease. This is the most important principle of health care provision in all. If we take a coercive sample of someone, a coercive analysis, because it's called a coercive test, then obviously the person is accepting it. Even when a lava is taken from a sick person, it is very easy to injure a vein, it is not always possible to infiltrate a vein when a person moves in, struggles in, it is an unwilled sample, he struggles in, and he gets hurt for sure. But as long as it's necessary to take a urine sample, I can't imagine how this thing can go against the will. This unfortunate subject screams, yells, has to be held tight, strapped to something, and he's sneaking back with all his strength. Nobody likes to get a catheter in. Of course, such things occur in most cases with major or minor injuries. Now, again, the problem arises that even if there is a contract with the health care provider that he has to take this procedure, but the doctor sees that it is not possible to do so without causing injury, what about the doctor? Will he be held accountable for refusing to comply with the law? We don't know anything about that. Besides, imagine you're at the doctor's, waiting patiently in the hallway, and suddenly a citizen comes in screaming and screaming like a dead man. Really, he's drunk, he doesn't know what's gonna happen now, he's gonna be castrated or what. How are the patients feeling? They're breaking up. After he has actually performed such a procedure, the doctor has to take a fine chin of medical alcohol and his hands are shaking for a long time. I wouldn't dare do that. I had three minutes, didn't I?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U29	No, I haven't told you yet, you can keep talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U30	Thank you. Then there's something wrong with the watch. Look, no doctor I know would want to do this procedure. In addition, if it is a healthcare service, it must be included in the list of health services. If this is not a health care service, the doctor should not perform such a procedure. If it is still a healthcare service, it must have certain requirements, requirements for premises, equipment requirements, medical qualifications requirements. The device then assumes that there must be a table with straps, as we've seen in horror movies. As far as qualifications are concerned, whether this requires a butcher's or a executioner's qualification, I do not know that, but in any case, such a thing does not belong to health services. I can't imagine what kind of doctor would do that if he ever did. In any case, it is not just an ethical contradiction, it is a moral issue at all. A doctor can't be an extension of the power. If he's starting to take anti-intentional samples, the next step is that he has to inject some sort of, I don't know, truth serum or use a Spanish boot. That's the kind of thing that's been in history. If we're already taking bodily fluids, if we're taking blood, if it's tissue, if the brain is also tissue, then we're going to get that part of the brain, it's a lobotomy, it's been done for a hundred years for certain purposes. We still have to set a limit on this. Everyone stays with their ranks, the doctor treats people, the policeman protects the law, the lawyers fix the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U31	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U32	Let's go to the next question. Members of the Riigikogu Peeter Võsa, Inara Luigas, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi, Heimar Leng and Vladimir Velmani on 9 June. a request for information on suspected corruption in the county of Võru (No 32). Peter Võsa, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U33	Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 June, we did indeed come forward with an inquiry concerning the suspicion of corruption by the former governor and mayor of Võru, Ülo Tulik. This person is not supposed to be an honest state official because he used his influence as a county governor to direct the money planned for the establishment of Võru industrial area to his son-in-law, Selita Head of Indrek Klumpe. Similarly, Mr Tulik has intervened several times in public procurement procedures and has thus obtained favourable decisions for his son-in-law. There's a whole series of questions, 12. We want to know whether the Minister of the Interior is aware of Mr Ülo Tulik's actions and we look forward to commenting on this. At the same time, perhaps a small parallel: the public procurement procedure has allegedly been influenced by Andrei Filippov, the deputy mayor of Narva, who was detained by the Defence Police. There's a trial against him, but not against Ülo Tulik.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U34	Dear colleague Peter Võsa, you said the Minister of the Interior, we are currently responding to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U35	Minister of Justice, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U36	Thank you. Now, please, the Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U37	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ten members of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry to me on 9 June 2011, the content of which Peeter Võsa reported here. I'll try to answer with strength. The inquiry that was submitted to me is based on the article "Why Ülo Tulik wasn't studied by the Prosecutor's Office, published in the Võrumaa Official Journal on 4 June. " The last paragraph of this article is entitled "The Public Prosecutor's Office keeps an eye on Tulik' and includes a quote from the answer given by the prosecutor's office: "The Public Prosecutor's Office keeps an eye on the media and, in the case of information referring to a criminal offence, responds to it by starting criminal proceedings in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the pre-trial phase of criminal proceedings, it is generally not possible to disclose data from criminal proceedings in the interest of an objective and complete investigation and taking of evidence. As a result, it is not possible for the prosecutor's office to disclose information on whether, when and for whom criminal proceedings have been initiated on the basis of information published in the media.' The answer given by the Public Prosecutor's Office to the journalist's question is correct, and I have nothing to add to it as Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice cannot comment on the initiation or non-initiation of criminal proceedings or the conduct of criminal proceedings in any particular case. According to the law, this area is one of the tasks in which the Public Prosecutor's Office is independent and acts in accordance with the law of the Prosecutor's Office, other laws and the legislation given on the basis thereof. The official supervision of the prosecutor's office by the Ministry of Justice does not extend to the activities of the prosecutor's office in the planning of surveillance activities in pre-trial criminal proceedings and the prosecution of state charges in court. I will then try to respond briefly and with focus to the questions raised in the context of the inquiry. The first question: Are you aware of the actions of Mr Ülo Tulik described above? " I am not aware of the activities attributed to the Ülo Tulika in its questioning, but I am aware of the allegations that have been made about his activities in the media. For the legal assessment of these claims, law enforcement authorities are in Estonia, and only the court has jurisdiction in accordance with the procedure laid down for this purpose. It is not the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to conduct or supervise criminal proceedings. The second question: "What is your comment on the activities of the prosecutor's office in this situation? "The Public Prosecutor's Office is, by law, a government agency involved in planning the surveillance activities necessary for the prevention and detection of criminal offences, leading pre-trial criminal proceedings, ensuring its legality and effectiveness, representing the state indictment in court and carrying out other tasks assigned to the Prosecutor's Office by law. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall be independent from the performance of its duties under the law and shall act in accordance with the law of the Prosecutor's Office, other laws and any legislation granted on the basis thereof. The Ministry of Justice supervises the prosecutor's office. The Ministry of Justice's oversight of the prosecutor's office does not extend to the activities of the prosecutor's office in the planning of surveillance activities, pre-trial criminal proceedings and the prosecution of state charges in court. Therefore, as Minister of Justice, I cannot comment on the alleged inaction of the prosecutor's office. I'm glad the DA's office is acting under the law. The third question: "How far can the legislation on investigations be applied differently in similar cases? " The question is theoretical. Of course, there are different circumstances in different cases and consequently there are differences in the investigation and procedure, but the law is still applied in the same way. Question 4: "Does legislation allow individuals belonging to the coalition partner to be treated differently from members of the Central Party of the opposition? " The answer is short: no, the legislation does not allow individuals belonging to the coalition partner to be treated differently from members of the Central Party of the opposition. There are no exceptions to the special treatment of the members of the Centre Party or to the treatment of members of other parties, including coalition partners. I would like to point out once again that the Minister of Justice cannot influence the prosecutor's office to do so or to do so. The prosecutor's office is independent of political parties, the prosecutor's office does not have coalition partners and must be governed by law. Question 5: "Do you think that there is a justification for not initiating or delaying a criminal case if such accusations exist? For what reason? " It is not the responsibility of the Minister of Justice to assess whether a criminal case is not started or justified. There are law enforcement authorities for this, and I, as Minister of Justice, have no reason to doubt the legality of decisions taken by the competent national institutions. Question 6: "How much do you think it is possible, in the light of today's legislation, that the investigation will not be initiated due to the close relationship between Mr Meelis Saarepuu and Signe Drumm, the executives of the Southern Prefecture, and Ülo Tulik's son-in-law? " As a minister, I cannot propose any theories about whose close relationships in a particular case have what effect. That would be a rumor. If anyone has information about the concealment or corruption of a criminal offence, they must contact the law enforcement authorities and, if there are reasonable grounds for doubt, proceedings shall be instituted. This is not a story that can be resolved in the press or in this Chamber. Justice in the Republic of Estonia is dealt with only by the court and discussing some speculation here would be a slippery ice. Question 7: As Minister for Justice, do you contribute to the fight against corruption? If so, how exactly? " I can respond positively to this question: the fight against corruption has been and continues to be one of the priorities of the government and therefore the Minister of Justice. The current anti-corruption strategy aims to reduce and prevent corruption in the public and private sectors and raise public awareness of corruption and ethics. Corruption in the public sector is a threat to national security and causes unequal treatment of people, while corruption in the private sector undermines fair competition and creates obstacles to economic development. As regards corruption in the public sector, both preventive measures and remedies, including criminal measures, are in place at the same time. In the latter case it can be noted that 223 corruption offences were registered in 2010, which is 10% more than in 2009. The prevention tools system is currently being updated again and the draft anti-corruption law that regulates them will soon be submitted to the Riigikogu. I recall that this bill had been in the process of the previous Riigikogu for quite a long time. Now's the chance to make it even better. The Ministry of Justice will also analyse how to improve law enforcement tools to respond to the most serious cases of corruption. In this respect, too, proposals for amending the existing law, based on an in-depth thematic study and comparison, are planned. The implementation of the laws provides for specialisation in law enforcement agencies, training for law enforcement officials, as well as more generally for the public sector, whose activities require an assessment of the risks of corruption. A handbook on conflicts of interest for officials published this year is also available in this direction. Law enforcement professionals participate in periodic training. It is also necessary to inform the private sector and the general public about what corruption is and where it can happen. Implementation of the anti-corruption strategy is reported annually to the Government of the Republic. The Ministry of Justice's information leaflet on corruption www.corruption.ee provides most of the information on studies and anti-corruption activities on a permanent and publicly available basis. Finally, Estonia participates in international anti-corruption activities both through the Council of Europe, the UN, the OSCD and more and more through the European Union. Question 8: "How is it possible in the rule of law that for a month the press reflects the dubious corrupt actions of a state official and the investigative authorities remain silent? " In the rule of law, justice is enforced by a court and is carried out in accordance with a specific procedural procedure. The publication of information on the procedure is not strictly necessary and may undermine the purposes of the procedure. Therefore, I believe that public officials' suspicious actions in the press, although this may be a useful input for starting a case of guilt, do not necessarily have to be followed by the public statements of the investigating authorities. The ninth question: "What exactly is lacking in this matter, so that no study can begin? Is that the law's circumstances? If so, which and when and how do you plan to remedy the shortcomings? " No specific comments can be made on a specific matter. If there are shortcomings in legislation or regulation, they can be removed as much as possible, and I have already referred to the proposed amendments to the Anti-Corruption Act and Penal Code. In the specific case, whether there is a case at all has not been established in the national judicial procedure. Question 10: "What kind of attitude, where doubts exist as facts, but nothing will be done with an alternate member of the Riigikogu of the IRL, will give the public, in your opinion? " It is a matter of assuming something that is not at all certain. The first question, however, is whether the facts exist, the second question is what legal assessment is made, and the third question is what is the party affiliation of the party involved in these facts. I do not see the link between the legal assessment and party membership; one does not depend on the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U38	Thank you very much. You have questions too. Please ask the first question, Mr Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U39	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Just out of curiosity, I'd like you to answer. How does it happen that when one of the leading politicians of the Fatherland and Res Publica, who is actually a pedophile, is arrested in the early spring, but the public will not know about it until late autumn, when the Euro Parliament and the local elections are over, but every time there is only a suspicion that will not be confirmed afterwards, but it is a member of the Centre Party, then there will be a real action in the press from the beginning and an innocent person, as has been revealed many times, will be dragged instantly into a criminal? How is such a thing even possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U40	Thank you. I can't even comment on the first case you referred to. I have heard about this case through the press, but, as I said, which procedures are going to become public at some point, the prosecutor's office, it is not the Minister of Justice or the Ministry of Justice who makes this decision. In this sense, I agree that, as politicians and legislators, it is certainly your duty, and mine, to emphasise in exactly the same way the meaning of the presumption of innocence that a person is not guilty in advance. Maybe in the media, the way I say it, the condemnation often comes before everything is clear. But once again, disclosure is more the decision of the prosecutor's office and the judge. Neither the Ministry nor the Minister has any role to play here. I don't mean to be unfair, but as a member of the Centre Party, you may feel more painfully in the Corruption Centre Party. Perhaps it is right that each party's task is to clear its own lines. So I guess that's the idea too.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U41	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U42	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In answering the questions of a good colleague, Peter Võsa, you said just a little while ago that the law does not allow a different attitude to the unlawful acts of coalition parties and opposition parties. If the law does not allow this, then this different attitude is against the law. My question is: who, then, should take action, investigate the matter, and under what law is such a breach of law punished?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U43	If you have such information, you should look at which authority this information is about, which judge, and contact the supervisory authority. It's as simple as that. I don't have any information today. If I had, I would have raised such a question a long time ago. So if you see that there is a different attitude somewhere, then as a member of the legislative assembly, as a public figure and simply as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, it is certainly your duty to make this known.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U44	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U45	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You insist all the time that the Ministry doesn't do this and doesn't do it. But maybe you should deal with it, do one analysis and see how these cases are distributed according to where the city, the municipality, which party has power? And here's my follow-up question: are you aware that your officials, who prepared the answer to this question, only read one article in Celebration? The Võrumaa Official Journal is actually working with very strong journalists, and the paper deals thoroughly with corruption in Võrumaa and Võru. That's why I'm asking if you've read any other articles, there's a series of pages of corruption in Võrumaa. Has the Ministry met them before you came to such an inquiry?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U46	Well, if you start from the back, I've never read these sequels in person. If you say that there is something that should be read, I will certainly draw our people's attention to it and hope that the quality of the writings is as high as you are referring to. The first part of the question concerned whether we intend to analyse by municipality. Of course, there are certain trends in corruption and all these are available from these same corruption surveys. The anti-corruption website held by the Ministry of Justice has a wide range of studies publicly available and I would like to once again recommend that they be consulted. I've read them since I took office. They're fat, but they're also extremely interesting. They describe how the number of people who have a positive attitude to corruption in Estonia has decreased over the years. For example, the delivery of a gift that used to be very normal, but which today may be considered to be such an old-fashioned way. There is a downward trend in this regard; it is no longer acceptable for people. Similarly, in many places in Estonia, the number of people who would be willing to do something that could be considered corrupt has decreased. I'm sorry to say, but it has something to do with Estonian geography, not wanting to draw boundaries between any political party or any region here. I suggest you look, in fact, in these studies you can see very clearly how people perceive. There are people who interpret corruption more narrowly, which means that many things are not corruption for them. There are also nationalities and there are age specificities. Actually, I suggest you take a look!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U47	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, There is media business in Estonia, and thus the media also have a great right to treat the life and activities of a person in a often derogatory way. Depends on the position the higher a person is in, the stronger the attack on such subjects will usually be. You said very nicely that a man is not guilty in advance, we have a presumption of innocence. My question to you is: have you discussed with your coalition partners in the government, or in some other place, how to protect people from such attacks, is it really just a duty? You know very well that the time shift here is very long. People have suffered moral and economic damage, and the responsibility of the media is quite modest.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U49	Thank you. It's kind of, let's say, a common issue for public figures. Rather, different legal assessments provide for a certain degree of higher tolerance for the public figure in relation to questions and claims in the public media. There are various mechanisms for this. There are press self-regulation bodies, there is a court. I think everyone remembers that the legislator also adopted regulation in the previous composition when a person has an interest in going to court and wishing that the sale of press publications based on 'untrue' statements would end. I am not saying that this is too common, because I think that the level of the press has increased and the level of questions and answers has clearly improved, but it does happen from time to time. I am pleased when I recall, for example, for the last time, where the Prime Minister addressed the same self-regulatory body in connection with a single publication and asked whether they considered that the answer should also be asked from who they were claiming, and the press publications themselves felt that it should be asked. In this sense, the ethics of the press play an important role, but the case law that will continue to play an important role in the future. We do or do not want to, but it will take time for this case-law to develop. Maybe it'll be a few years, but maybe a few decades. So there is nothing to do, it is a stage of development for a democratic state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U50	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U51	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister of Justice! You also mentioned, in your statement, at the outset, that in a reply to the Võrumaa Official Journal, the South District Prosecutor's Office said that the prosecutor's office was constantly monitoring what was in the media and, in the case of information referring to a crime, reacting with the opening of criminal proceedings. Andres Anvelt, Chairman of the Committee on Corruption in the Riigikogu, has found that the accusations made in the Võrumaa Official Journal are quite sufficient for the prosecutor's office to start a criminal investigation on their basis, and Mr Lenk quite rightly said that this issue has actually been dealt with not in one newspaper article, but in the Võrumaa Official Journal very many accusations have been made on the run. So the South D.A. should be blind and deaf not to react to such things. How do you comment, perhaps you should rather evaluate and examine the competence of the South Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U52	I'd stick to my answer. If there are any indications of a crime, the prosecutor's office will probably initiate proceedings. At least I have not been told that we would not want to be unjust here in any way about people with disabilities, blind and deaf prosecutors who are blind and deaf with regard to criminal and criminal reports. I don't have that kind of information, and I'm sure if there's any evidence of that kind, the procedure will be initiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U53	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U54	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. In Narva they say that to live in Narva, that is to say to be suspicious, to be suspicious, to be Russian and to live in Narva, it is already a sin, and if there is a third side that you are a member of the Central Party, then the judgment is practically in hand. In fact, I had no idea that the debate on this question was going to be so interesting. The Minister's answer was a very interesting idea that the prosecutor's office itself would decide which actions to illuminate and which were not. I guess that's pretty much the way it sounded like it wasn't the minister's business. Very interesting to find out. There was this news once in Delfi, very modest, after a day he disappeared, that one of the assistant mayors of Tartu had doubts that he had participated in 118 public procurements, which were taken part in and won by companies belonging to his family and friends. You mean something came of it? Nothing came of it, no arrest, no arrest, no investigation. A person develops business, as I was told, in Finland now, there was nothing criminal about it. But my former job, the Chairman of the Finance Commission of Narva City Council, who is a sinner in three matters, he is a narcissist, he is Russian and he is a middle party citizen, sits for two months, the first six days his wife didn't know where he was, he wasn't answered. The first days he sat in a place where there was no light, no natural light, no light, no walk, nothing human rights intended. There was no interrogation in two months, there was only one offer: write something on yourself and in half an hour you'll be free. I can tell you about our former assistant mayor, the way he was treated. She had a child after two years of nervous distress, a rather ill-healthed child who was taken to Tallinn, and she was reanimation with the child. Kapo's employees came to him with a proposal to sign. That means he's talking to them and somewhere in the next room, there's a kid in the next room that he's got to be with, and the calculation is that, in this situation, he's gonna take on and sign off on anything. So not everything is as beautiful as the Minister said here. I don't have any complaints about him personally. It's just a system already. And that case with the pedophile Hanson. You know perfectly well, but either you're ashamed to talk about it, or you want to claim that I'm addressing the right side of the hall that you're better in every way. If any of you are a pedophile, even after you've been captured, that doesn't mean you're gonna end up somewhere in the paper. You will be kept and the public will not know about this until all the elections are over and when it is no matter that the great childguard Hanson turned out to be a pedophile. There is, by the way, a member of the Riigikogu sitting in this Chamber who, as it has become clear later, knew all this already before the arrest and did not inform anyone about it. So the subject is extremely interesting. I am not among the signatories there, but I think we will have many opportunities to discuss this matter in the near future, because I sincerely wonder whether there is a presumption of innocence in Estonia, or whether there is no presumption of innocence. Or it's there for someone and it's absolutely not there for anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U55	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U56	Ladies and gentlemen, After my hammer strike, you can register for a free microphone speaker. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U57	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, You don't believe your ears right now. I didn't believe it today either. I am here on the remote for the simple reason that Mr. Raudne offered to praise the Estonian state. That is what I am happy to do here, but I do not congratulate the Estonian state as a whole, but specifically the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture and the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs of our Riigikogu, who were all together today at the meeting and solved the problem that has been here for 12 years according to my memory. In just 12 years, we were able to realise that there was no problem, this is the draft that I first brought to this hall in 1999. I'm fucking glad! But actually, if I keep talking, maybe I'll hurt somebody. I really want to say thank you to the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-12_U58	Thank you very much for the positive message. There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4.30 p.m.
