ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U1	Good afternoon, President of the Republic, Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Ministers, guests, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the extraordinary session that I have convened today, on the proposal of 62 members of the Riigikogu on 29 August, pursuant to § 68 of the Constitution, § 51 (1) of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act and § 14 of the President's Election Act. One item on the agenda is the election of the President of the Republic. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We don't have a new president elected yet. The President's seat is where our Head of State is sitting right now. Colleagues! Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite today's sublime and important event, we cannot fail to draw attention to the corruption-stricken activities taking place in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It has become known through the media that Eesti Energia, the Road Administration and private capital-based companies Nordecon AS and Ramboll Eesti AS started the OSAMAT project, under which the oil shale ash will be tested in concrete mixtures, which will then be used to stabilise the soil in the construction of highways. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) and under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II). Oil shale ash has long been used to stabilise the road cover. The last available study was carried out in 2005 by AS Teede Tehnokeskus. Its title is 'Study on the condition of oil shale ash-stabilised coatings built in the seventies and eighties of the last century'. We know that suitable technologies and methods of use have been taught to future road builders at Tallinn University of Technology for at least the last 30 years. But now EUR 2.7 million will be allocated to a private company without public procurement to investigate what is already clear. We think there's a sense of corruption here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have accepted an inquiry. If an inquiry complies with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the messages. On 16 June, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: The Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 15 June, of which the commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a draft law on the amendment of the Income Tax Act, initiated on 16 June, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. a draft law on the amendment of the Commercial Code and other related laws initiated on 16 June, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. I have forwarded two enquiries from the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the Estonian-Israeli parliamentary group in this Chamber. Now, please, let's do the presence check! Ladies and gentlemen, 101 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. The Riigikogu has a quorum at an extraordinary session if more than half of the Riigikogu's membership is present. Since 101 members of the Riigikogu are present, the Riigikogu has a quorum. We are going to set a timetable for the work of the extraordinary session. Pursuant to § 52 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Riigikogu establishes the working schedule of the extraordinary session by a majority of the votes. The future timetable of the Riigikogu's work follows from the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Act on the Election of the President of the Republic and the prescribed deadlines for election procedures. The extraordinary session will last until all the acts provided for in the Presidential Election Act have been carried out in the Riigikogu. Today we work until the election results are announced in the first round. I propose to confirm the timetable for the work of the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu. Please vote! There are 101 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The timetable for the work of the extraordinary session has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U4	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We shall proceed to the first round of voting for the election of the President of the Republic. The President of the Election Commission of the Republic, Heiki Sibula, has the floor to present the procedure for voting and determining voting and election results. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On the basis of § 15 (8) of the Act on the election of the President of the Republic, the Election Committee of the Republic registered Toomas Hendrik Ilves and Indrek Tarandi as candidates for the President of the Republic in the first round of voting by decision No 71 of 28 August. Thus, the names of Toomas Hendrik Ilves and Indrek Tarand are included in the ballot papers. Before going to the electoral process, let me introduce the voting procedure and the procedure for determining the result of the vote and the vote. The election committee gives the member of the Riigikogu a voting slip along with the envelope on the basis of the list of members of the Riigikogu. Please ask a member of the Riigikogu to submit his/her identity document, i.e. the certificate of a member of the Riigikogu, an identity card, a passport or a driving licence, to the electoral body for a ballot paper. A member of the Riigikogu shall sign the receipt of the note. The vote shall be secret. The ballot papers shall be filled in in the voting booth. Every member of the Riigikogu has one vote. The member of the Riigikogu shall tick the box at the name of the candidate he votes for. After completing the note, the voter shall place the note in the envelope and give it to the member of the selection board who shall imprint the envelope with the seal of the Commission. The voter then puts the envelope in the ballot box. In the event of a breach of the ballot paper before the ballot box is placed in the ballot box, the voters shall be entitled to a new note if the note is returned. Before counting the votes, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to make a written protest against the violation of voting procedures. It shall be reviewed by the Commission and shall take its decision. After the vote has been completed and the possible protests have been resolved, the electoral committee will determine the initial result of the vote and then read the votes publicly in this Chamber. The Election Committee shall announce the result of the vote by reading out the minutes of the Election Committee of the Republic on the outcome of the vote. Before determining the result of the election, a member of the Riigikogu shall have the right to submit a written protest against a possible violation of the procedure for determining the result of the vote. The selection panel shall then announce the result of the election. A candidate who is voted for by a two-thirds majority of the Riigikogu, i.e. at least 68 members of the Riigikogu, is declared elected. The vote will take place in the lobby next to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Only members of the electoral committee and persons serving the electoral committee may be present in addition to the members of the Riigikogu in the area allocated to organising the vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U6	Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions about the procedure for voting and determining voting and election results? There are no questions. I ask the electoral commission to check the ballot box and seal it! We have one hour to vote. I will signal the end of the vote with a signal, after which I will ask all members of the Riigikogu to gather back in the Chamber. It's at 14:12. I declare the first round of vote on the election of the President of the Republic. P r o v e r a t i on
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U7	Dear Riigikogu! May I have your attention, please? I declare the vote closed in the first round of voting on the election of the President of the Republic. Please bring the ballot box to the hall! First, please make sure the seal is intact! Thank you! Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the violation of voting procedures? No, it's not. I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U8	Dear Riigikogu! I shall make a public reading before you to check whether the initial result of the vote is correct. First, I will read the votes given to the candidates. Toomas Hendrik Ilves: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68. [[Let's hear it.]] 69, 70, 71, 72, 73. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U9	We'll have time to clap later. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U10	Indrek Tarand: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25. The two ballot papers are invalid as they are marked in the box with the names of both candidates. One ballot is unmarked.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U11	Please complete the record of the result of the vote. The President of the Election Committee of the Republic shall have the floor to announce the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U12	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! I will read the minutes of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the result of the vote in the first round of voting for the President of the Republic in the Riigikogu. The electoral committee of the Republic established the following figures in the counting of votes. Number of members of the Riigikogu included in the electoral list.. 101, number of members of the Riigikogu received a ballot.. 101, number of members of the Riigikogu voting: 101, number of valid ballot papers.. 2. Number of unmarked ballot ballot papers.. 1. Number of votes cast on the candidates of the President: Toomas Hendrik Ilves 73 votes, Indrek Tarand 25 votes. The protocol is drawn up in s. a on August 29, at 2.27 p.m. Head of the Election Commission of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U13	Do the members of the Riigikogu have any protests about the violation of voting procedures? No, it's not. That means the President of the Republic has been elected! [[Let's hear it.]] I will once again give the floor to the President of the Election Commission of the Republic to announce the result of the election.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U14	Decision No 72 of the Election Committee of the Republic, Tallinn on 29 August. Determination of the result of the election of the President of the Republic in the first round of voting in the Riigikogu. Pursuant to § 13 (2) of the Act on the election of the President of the Republic, and in accordance with § 16 (2) of the Act on the Election of the President, the Election Committee of the Republic decides to declare Toomas Hendrik Ilves elected President of the Republic. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U15	Thank you very much. Allow me, on behalf of all of you, to congratulate the President of the newly elected Republic. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The President of the newly elected Republic has expressed his wish to speak before the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U16	Good people of Estonia! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen! Friends! I sincerely thank the Riigikogu for its trust, which there is only one way to earn. You must serve the state of Estonia and all the people living here in the way that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia provides in its word and in its sense. Today's decision was historic. No, not because of the elected president and the candidates for this post. Absolutely not. It was historical because you first chose the President of the Republic in the way that the founders of our constitution anticipated and recorded it almost 20 years ago, and to which the Estonian people gave their clear support. For the first time, you have exercised the primary right provided for in the Constitution to elect a President in the Riigikogu and, with it, have shown yourself to be both parliamentaryism and the maximalist of the Constitution. You have shown that the Riigikogu is effective and that the Constitution must be implemented in the best way. I believe it will benefit our country. This shows Estonia's maturity, its adulthood. For this, as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, I am grateful to the Riigikogu. This maturity obliges both Parliament and the President to a great deal. I promise you, I'm ready for this. I am ready to serve the country of Estonia, Estonia, all the people living here, regardless of their outlook and mother tongue, on the basis of my best faith and beliefs. Thank you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-08-29_U17	Thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The extraordinary session is closed. I'll see you on September 12th at the regular session. Closure of the sitting at 2.35 p.m.
