ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 9th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Attention, please, and I'd like everyone to go to their seats. On 18 November Ülo Nugis, the head of the Supreme Council in 1990-1992, the chairman of the VII Riigikogu and a member of the VIII and IX Riigikogu, left us after a serious illness. Ülo Nugis, who died at the age of 67, was among the principle and more consistent politicians of the 1980s and early 1990s, whose hammer strike on 20 August 1991 marked Estonia's entry into the family of free states. We shall remember Ülo Nugis with silence. [[The silence of grief.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the State Tax Act and the Road Traffic Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts in the Riigikogu when the bill is being processed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, We have an inquiry into a serious matter for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This is a question of rural decline. In other words, we want to know why it is done with the hands of the state. We are talking about another wave of closure of local post offices, specifically two of the post offices of Haanja rural municipality and Taheva rural municipality in Võru County. One of them is in Ruusmäe village and the other is in Koikküla. It seems that the closure of post offices will indeed result in these villages dying out once and for all because there are no real shops left, and even primary schools were shut down in Koikküla a year ago, not to mention that there would be a secondary school or some other educational establishment. We appeal to the Prime Minister to ask why the Estonian government's so-called onlookers prefer the profit of Estonian Post rather than the sustainability of Estonia's rural territory. The question is so serious that I hope that the Prime Minister will answer this question seriously, but not with the on-call phrases that the market economy will put everything in place and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U5	Thank you. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guests! Colleagues! I, too, have an inquiry to make, this time to Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. The issues concern the management of families with children. The reason for the question was that the indicators of child poverty are growing very rapidly in Estonia, especially in single-parent families and families with children. There is an increase below the absolute poverty line and the number of families living in deep poverty. The disbursement of income support is also growing rapidly. These families have grown many times. The government is trying to argue that, if unemployment is to increase temporarily, it will, in principle, decrease. We ask why the need for income support is constantly increasing. Praxis, the Centre for Policy Studies, has done research and said that the most money has gone to the beneficiaries of parental benefit, while the number of beneficiaries of family benefits has decreased. The study has also concluded that it is precisely national family allowances that are needed most by families to come out of poverty. We have a number of questions. For example, what measures are planned to come out of this distress and when will family benefits be increased? There are also many other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U7	On behalf of the board, I have adopted one bill and two inquiries. If the bill complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide on the procedure within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Riigikogu's Finance Committee. A draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Auditor appointment for verification of the activities of the National Audit Office in 2011', submitted on 16 November, is the Committee on Monetary Affairs, secondly, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated on 17 November, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 17 November, Estonia presented its views on the draft directive on a common system of financial transactions tax of the Council of the European Union to the European Union Commission and has appointed the Monetary Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 1 December at 4 p.m. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and to the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur. Today, following the end of the plenary session, the Peipsiveere Support Group and the Jõgeva-Tartu County Envoy Group will be held in this Chamber. Both the Support Group and the Group of Ambassadors shall be convened by Terje Trei. Please, let's do the presence check! 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft agenda and no one opposed the draft agenda, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U8	Honourable members and guests of the Riigikogu! We are waiting for the President of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek, to speak in plenary. The call is in English and you have the opportunity to listen to its simultaneous translation. [[Let's hear it.]] Honourable President of the European Parliament Jerzy Buzek! It is an honour to welcome you to the Estonian Parliament! You have your word, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U9	Madam Chairman! Honourable Members of the Estonian Parliament! I'm very happy to be here. It is a great honor to me that I was invited here to give a speech. We are in a beautiful place, a country that is a member of the euro area. We are economically very successful in the country. I would like to say a lot about this because we need good news in Europe. So let me share my great satisfaction that I can be in a country like Estonia today. You've been through a very difficult period in your history. I want to share my views on our common history, the history of Central and Eastern Europe, because we should learn from our history, but also think about the future. Tallinn, the European Capital of Culture, is the best place to think about it, especially when we are in this beautiful Toompea castle. Your Parliament is the only one of its kind. Toompea's history also tells the difficult history of Estonia. Time and again, Estonia's blue black and white flag has been removed from the castle tower. The Swedes, the Danes, the Germans and the Russians have done this. Your history is very important to the whole of the European Union. You were destroyed by the Nazi occupation and swallowed by the Soviet Union. It hasn't been a long time since Lenin's picture watched over your Parliament. Like many of you, I grew up in a country where freedom of expression was limited, where dignity had been robbed of people. Yes, history has devastated our region. We come back to the current situation. You are now an invaluable member of the European Union and NATO. You were the first Baltic country to join the euro area, and you are one of the most integrated countries in Europe. You are an example to others, not only in terms of democracy, but also in terms of a successful high-tech economy. You are the first country in the world to adopt e-voting. Congratulations on that. This is a great achievement. At a time when Estonia is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the restoration of independence and Poland is the Presidency of the European Union, let us not forget how far we have come. Since 1988, when this whole process started in Europe, it has only been over 20 years. How much has changed in our daily lives since then! Dear colleagues! Having recalled this and our achievements, we come back to more difficult issues. We are all members of the European Union. The European Union is at a crossroads. We are facing a huge debt crisis between states and private individuals. With a crisis caused to a large extent by poor economic governance. But the European crisis is not only a financial crisis; it is also a crisis of confidence; it is also a crisis of values. The lack of jobs is causing dissatisfaction. Many Europeans are angry about austerity measures. I go to all the Member States of the European Union. I know that in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Ireland people think that the future has been stolen from them. Many citizens feel that the European Union is not working, or at least is not working effectively. They think that the European Union is part of the problem and not the solution. What should we do to regain the confidence of our citizens? How can they be convinced that they have a future in Europe? Many Member States have doubts about this. We politicians must work harder to explain the current crisis. Some of Estonia's lessons are very valuable for Europe as a whole. We must show that we are making the European Union more efficient, capable of better solving problems in order to protect our future. The European Union's institutions and governments have been so busy fighting fires that we have not found time to explain what is actually burning in the European Union and why. We must convince our citizens that now is the time when we need more Europe, not less. Perhaps we should set an example for Estonia more often. I am absolutely sure that the difficult reforms and austerity measures that were taken in your country and in other Member States of the European Union were very successful, because politicians could explain to citizens the need for these reforms. I am absolutely sure that, thanks to the very difficult reforms we have carried out in Central and Eastern Europe in the 1990s, we now have a privileged opportunity to better understand the very simple rule that, from time to time, we cannot go forward without very deep and strong reforms, without reforms such as were carried out in the 1990s or in Estonia and Latvia some time ago. It is not so visible in some countries, the so-called old Europe, and it is not so easy to understand. Of course, we shouldn't be too proud of ourselves, we also know our mistakes. But I'm talking about my experience in the last two and a half years. We see no division into so-called new and old countries. There is one completely new Member State."Croatia. We can say that all the others are old Member States and we share responsibility. In the European Union, we are completely in touch with other Member States. This is a very important message for Estonia, because your country is in this part of the European Union that we should strengthen in the European Union, which we need to build if we want to get out of the current crisis and build a new and better Europe. The most important thing is that we must strengthen European solidarity. Estonia has nothing to gain from the collapse of Greece or a large part of the European economy, but it has a lot to lose. Like Poland and other Central European countries, Estonia understands the power of solidarity better than most other countries. Your commitment to this value and to the central values of Europe, such as freedom and democracy, led to one of the most remarkable withdrawals history knows in the late 1980s. Who could forget this September Day in 1988, when 300,000 people, more than a quarter of all Estonians, came together in Tallinn to demand freedom for Estonia and sing for it? That was a very brave gesture. We must not forget this. It was 23 years ago and it was in the Soviet Union. Who could forget the next great event, August 1989, when two million people stood side by side in a human chain that spanned 600 kilometres from Tallinn to Vilnius? It was solidarity in action at the level of every citizen. But solidarity alone is not enough. This was one of the main lessons I learned during the Polish Solidarity Revolution, having for many years been a member of the trade union movement and one of the organisers of Solidarity and the underground movement. I learned that if we are to succeed, we need discipline and responsibility. Solidarity without responsibility is simply an empty slogan. Estonia has shown that difficult and often painful choices pay off. Estonia has overcome the economic crisis with courage, pride and determination. Your economy started to fall in mid-2008 and after a year the decline exceeded 14%. But you did your homework. You understood what you needed to do to survive: to attract investment, reduce the budget deficit and become competitive again. Your government introduced a comprehensive savings plan, cutting the budget by 10%, while private companies cut wages by 20%. Now Estonia has been evicted from the economic downturn and is an example of responsible economic governance for Europe. You have the lowest debt in the European Union, as you know. You've reduced unemployment to an incredible extent. Your second quarter economic growth was the largest in the European Union. The whole of the European Union has noticed your efforts. This is the opinion of me and my colleagues, which is publicly known in the European Parliament. Your success is a breath of fresh air because we need examples like this. This shows not only the importance of responsibility and austerity, but also encourages the rest of Europe and even the whole world. Despite all the bad things the press is currently writing, the euro is a strong and stable currency. I want to emphasise this because the euro is ill-written, but from an economic point of view, the euro is doing quite well in most Member States of the European Union. Greece accounts for only 2% of Europe's overall GDP. The euro is an anchor for the single market, which we will all benefit from. He has strengthened our position in the world and is a vital factor in our security. We must emphasise the values of the euro, remind people of the powerful role of this money as a symbol of the united continent. Let me say, dear friends, that you can find the best examples of your economy in my speech. It's a very positive speech. I can assure you that this is not always the case in other parliaments of the European Union. I'm being very honest with you right now. Of course, there are some difficulties that are not very visible from outside Estonia, and there may be some difficulties and problems in general politics, which are related to Estonia's expectations. I discussed these issues, such as the common agricultural policy, quite a lot with your authorities. You have some doubts as to whether this policy is fair enough. We are facing a reform of the common agricultural policy and we do not know how this debate will end. But it is certainly important to take this into account that, in a country like the Estonian people, they feel and are convinced that they are being treated fairly, as in all other countries. I understand very well the hopes of you and your citizens. I am now talking about two or three minutes of regional cooperation, because you are in a very special, very important place from a geographical point of view and also formally. Regional cooperation is also important. It is in all our interests to establish healthy and comprehensive relations with Russia and with all our neighbours. Everything is very simple with the Eastern Partnership, but it is not that simple with Russia, because we want our cooperation to be based on mutual trust and respect and, most importantly, on shared values. It is still very difficult for Estonia to build relations with Russia on common values. We have some reservations about the development of democracy in our great partner. We need Russia. We need good relations with Russia. I am absolutely sure that Russia needs the European Union, but we also need greater compatibility of our systems, especially from the point of view of protecting human rights, from the point of view of democracy, from the point of view of the judicial system. We are very open to cooperation, but without compatibility, cooperation is very difficult and you know it. You are in a geographically and also politically very important, significant place. I am also pleased that Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia have increased cooperation in a number of areas, including transport, innovation and energy, to name only a few. I would like to remind you that the Baltic Sea Strategy has been drafted by the European Parliament and the European Commission and one of its founders is President Ilves. The European Union Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region was established in 2004-2006 and is now a regional cooperation model for the European Union as a whole. Its possibilities are endless. Sorry to bother you a little bit with the fact that I only have good news for you. But it's true, you're a successful country. You must understand that in the countries I mentioned earlier, it has been harder. Now Germany. Germany is doing well, but they are very worried. They feel responsible for the whole situation, they are spending a lot of money to help Greece, European banks and the EFSF. They're ready to help. They would, of course, like to support integration. But I remember very well what an atmosphere was like about integration in Germany five or ten years ago. That atmosphere was much better than it is now. I am not afraid for Germany, France, the Netherlands, Austria or other countries. We support integration, but we have some difficulties. Speaking to you here and talking to your authorities, I'm getting a lot of strength from this. Thank you very much for this. Finally, I would like to emphasise one more thing. Ensuring energy supply is the most important challenge for regional development. We must, in practice, carry out the solidarity provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon. The European Union imports more than 60% of gas and 80% of oil. The situation in the Baltic States is of most concern. You are 100% dependent on one gas supplier. This is a very important problem for all of us and also for Estonia. That is why, together with Jacques Delors, in 2010, I proposed the creation of a European Energy Community. What is the European Energy Community? What does that mean in practice? This is not a new unit, not a new organisation or a new administration. It is a strong political cover for everything we have to do in the field of energy. We should create a common energy policy. We want to create a common market for everything: goods, capital, labour, services. This is also needed for energy. What does that mean? This means building a common energy network by creating an integrated network. This means that there is no energy island like the Baltic States. This means the capacity to negotiate jointly with energy suppliers and transit countries, suppliers from outside the European Union, so that nothing like Nord Stream will happen again. This means diversifying Europe's energy sources and independent financial resources to finance energy projects. But it also means that we must not forget sun, wind, crops or fossil fuels in our own land. They should all remain an important part of the energy mix. Together, we can make this happen. Dear friends! You have an important role to play in sharing your experience with the countries of our eastern neighbours, especially in enhancing transparency and openness of governance, promoting democracy and protecting human rights, from Minsk to Kiev, Tbilisi to Baku. For our countries, the door to Europe was opened. It is our duty now to keep it open for others as well. We now see that the Western Balkans are striving for membership of the European Union. We could solve the long-term problem of the Western Balkans by opening the door. They like to fight each other, create a great deal of tension, but we expect the Copenhagen criteria to be met. We have to stop all these horrible past stories in this region. Your participation in this whole project is very important and visible throughout the European Union. Dear friends! Let me conclude by saying that I have the great pleasure and honour of speaking to you on behalf of the European Parliament today. You just had the 20th anniversary of regaining your independence. I wish you all the best for the next 20 years. I am absolutely sure that our future lies in our hands, in the hands of politicians and citizens. I'm absolutely sure your future will be bright for the next 20 years. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U10	Ladies and gentlemen, We'll continue. Let's start answering questions. The first question to be heard is the questions submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vasiliyev, Aadu Musta, Priit Toobali, Jüri Ratas, Rainer Vakra, Tarmo Tamme, Enn Eesmaa, Inara Luis, Mailis Reps and Eldar Efendijev on 20 October 2011 regarding the sustainability of the family medical system. This will be answered by Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur and presented by Yana Toom. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U11	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, After such a speech, it is difficult, frankly, to come here with such an inquiry, because I will certainly spoil your mood. But there's nothing we can do about it. Thus, our inquiry concerns the sustainability of the family doctor system and is motivated by the document "Overview of the use and preservation of state assets in 2010" prepared by the National Audit Office, which shows that the Estonian health care system continues to stagnate. The overview of the National Audit Office draws attention to several problems in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The hospital network needs reform, the family doctor system needs development, supervision in health care is not sufficient to ensure quality and the state's activities to ensure a safe working environment have been inadequate. In this regard, we have a number of questions for Minister Hanno Pevkur. We hope to have constructive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U12	Thank you very much. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! I am pleased to discuss health issues with you again. There is no point in reading the question, let's start with the questions. The first question: 'What are you planning, as Minister of Social Affairs, to do in addition to the €15,000 start-up money for young doctors going to county hospitals to alleviate the shortage of family doctors in rural areas? ' You mentioned county hospitals. Let us start by saying that this up to EUR 15 000, which we have planned for the start-up money, is not only intended for county hospitals, i.e. general or local hospitals, but also for family doctors. This is certainly an important extension to this draft, and the author of a good inquiry was certainly able to familiarise himself with it at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. In addition, family doctors and family nurses have repeatedly visited this hall. I am pleased to note that there have been sufficient statements that meet the criteria. We can say with certainty that next year, at least we can implement the flagship project as planned. Once the flagship project has been implemented, it will be seen whether and how this system should be changed, or how everything will fit in the way we have planned now. In addition, we have worked very closely with family doctors so that there are more family doctors in rural areas. We've reviewed the health care provider's price list. This morning, I signed changes regarding the family doctors. They relate in particular to distance charges. When I answer the questions, I will also talk about other changes, but in rural areas, yes, it is particularly the distance charge. To be more precise, the new rules are that if the family doctor works 20 to 40 kilometres from the nearest hospital, the new distance charge will be EUR 133 65 cents, and if the family doctor with a confirmed list is working more than 40 kilometres from the hospital, this fee will be almost three times higher, i.e. EUR 382 94 cents. Question 2: "How do you feel about the proposal of the National Audit Office to increase the role of performance pay in financing family doctors? ' It is a pleasure to say that the proposals presented in the National Audit Office's document were already in work at the time of this inspection report. We discussed them separately at one of the conferences or gatherings that took place in the conference room of this house. That's where we talked about it. With regard to performance fees, we changed the differentiation of the bounty: instead of the three groups, we divided the bounty into five groups. It should be won primarily by family doctors who live in the countryside, because the country has an older population and it provides more money for the lists. In addition, we transferred the training costs from the bounty to the base money (an additional cost of the sickness fund of more than EUR 500000). We also transferred the salary cost of the replacement during the training to the base money (an additional cost of the sickness fund of almost 1.3 million euros). The research fund depends most on the proposal of the National Audit Office, i.e. quality. There we also made a new level and offered three steps. First of all, we all raised the baseline level of the research fund from 27% to 29%. The research fund is 34%, or larger, for family doctors who have joined the quality system. We took another step forward and said that if a good result has been achieved with a quality system, it is possible that the research fund would be 37%. In order to ensure equality between the family medical system and the hospital system, we are already setting up, from 1 December this year's end, the so-called conversion coefficient for the study fund in the family medical system. If the hospital's work volume is higher than that prescribed in the contract, you can apply for an additional allowance from the sickness insurance fund. In this way, family doctors can receive 30% extra money if they work harder. The third question: 'When will you be able to implement the milestones set for 2010 in the development document 'Primary Health Development Plan 2009/2015', which have not yet been met? " It has to be said that these activities have always taken place. I think the inquisitors know that too. They are included in the population health development plan and its annual action plan. These activities shall be continuously adjusted. For example, the measures aimed at increasing primary human resources and thus ensuring access to health services, which I mentioned in the first response, have been put in place. Similarly, the role of family nurse has been strengthened, independent midwifery assistance is regulated and a quality system has been put into effect. So, within a great range, everything's going to work nicely. Of course, time brings change. We are about to send one change to Parliament. This concerns the transfer of primary control and regulation to the Health Board and concerns both the organisation and supervision of primary health care. The first round of coordination is over. We are also prepared to send them to the Ministry of Justice after examining the proposals and, if necessary, making changes, so that the draft will reach Parliament in the coming months. Question 4: "How do you consider that the organisation of family medical care should be changed in order to increase the working time of family doctors, which is spent directly on the patient and on his/her treatment? ' Maybe a little rhetorical in return to ask if there's any need to make a difference here. We know that the current arrangement is that the family doctor's appointment is at least 20 hours. It may also be prolonged depending on seasonal diseases. The appointment is accompanied by the time when the family doctor makes house visits, carries out preventive health checks for children up to 18 years of age, compiles documents related to the provision of health care services, etc. If you look at the annual report of the Health Insurance Fund for the previous year, for example, patient telephone counselling increased by 47% compared to 2009. People have called the doctor for help more quickly, and family doctors have done so. As the good heirs will certainly remember, the role and responsibility of the family nurses were also increased from January 2010. Family nurses can monitor chronic patients and patients with acute health problems more closely. To ensure better access to general medical care, the family nurse's independent appointment was extended by five hours a week. These changes have also been sought at all times to assess. For example, on the basis of the annual report of the Health Insurance Fund for 2010, the reception of family nurses has increased by 15%. Question 5: "How does the Ministry of Social Affairs plan to ensure that competent family doctors reach all areas of Estonia? ' I have said here before that the admission of doctors to the family doctor's residency has grown considerably. When 159 residents were accepted in 2004-2011, for example, only 176 family doctors graduated in 1996-2011, or 15 years. So the order in recent years has been considerably higher. Residentship orders are planned for the next few years so that there will be a new family doctor of 25 to 30, which should ensure an increase. It was discussed in the same way at this conference. What else is planned next year? There was talk of a substitution system for family doctors and nurses. We will certainly also look very closely at the nurses' training order, and we have planned for the next few years to train at least 300 nurses. A one-year specialization of health professionals has also been launched. Question 6: 'What solutions do you offer as Minister for Social Affairs to improve supervision? ' At first level, as I said, a draft has been prepared to increase the supervision of the Health Board. It will certainly arrive in Parliament in the near future. In addition, we have recently visited the public that we have proposed to the Expert Committee on Health Quality of Service that the supervisory committee should be a little more effective. The last question concerned the number of family doctors whose list exceeds 2 000 persons and whether they have a so-called assistant doctor. As of 1 July 2011, 187 family doctors had more than 2001 persons on their list, and 65 also had an assistant doctor. But we know that the law provided a transitional period so that family doctors could find an assistant doctor. I think family doctors can handle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U14	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. You have questions. Let's start with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U15	Thank you. Dear Minister, Throughout the ages, there has been a problem with family doctors when we talk about money, there have been dividends. We know that a lot of family doctors are giving up a large part of their pay and withdrawing their money in the form of so-called dividends, which are not subject to social tax, but only income tax. Don't you think you should tax dividends? The problem is that the employees of this system, which do stand up from social tax, are deliberately avoiding paying social tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U16	Thank you. I would be happy to leave tax policy to the Minister of Finance. The dividends of family doctors are not any form of dividend different from those of other companies. However, it must be considered and taken into account that the main purpose of dividends is still to develop practice. It's a topic that's been talked about a lot. I do not think that it is worth dealing with family doctors alone here. When changes in tax policy come in one way or another, they must be very prudent and it must be ensured that the business environment does not deteriorate as a result. Similarly, family doctors should be given the opportunity to develop. So let the Minister of Finance answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U17	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'm trying to squeeze two questions in for one minute, and if you can answer, that's great. You mentioned a differentiated bounty system that should be won by doctors who have more older people on the list. Does this mean that a family doctor loses or has the entire amount allocated to the bounty been increased? The second question is how you appreciate the tendency that we are increasingly working with doctors from Russia, Ukraine, Belarus. Is there any way to take them into account in the future? We don't have enough doctors, but people would love to come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U19	Thank you for your question. I'll try to respond quickly. In the case of differentiation, there was a very close cooperation with family doctors. This change went through the association of family doctors as well as the general assembly of family doctors and received approval. The truth is that a few dozen family doctors may lose a bit because of this change, especially those family doctors who are primarily of working age and younger people. But it was a consensual decision of family doctors that instead of the three age groups so far, there are five age groups from 1 January. This was a very good example of how we can agree with family doctors to give reasonable first-level money. As for doctors coming from other countries to Estonia, it does not matter to me which country they come from, they must all meet the same criteria as Estonian doctors. If they come from outside, they need to take a competence examination at the University of Tartu. If they do not have problems with competence or linguistic obstacles, there will be no problems with which country they come from.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U20	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U21	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. As I understand it, this is mostly a start-up grant for young family doctors. Do you think you'll settle this with the start-up money? According to statistics, there are currently 40 family doctors missing, and smaller numbers have been discussed in the past. But I have another question. In Valgamaa, for example, family doctors have been chronically absent in the municipalities of Tõlliste and Õru. Now, if a blood - young doctor with a start money goes there alone to practice, do you not know if a person always wants to see the youngest doctor? Maybe the doctor needs a little practice in some family doctor's center in town first. People are so happy to see a doctor for a long time, they all show up, but then it suddenly turns out that this doctor can't make it because he doesn't have practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U22	Thank you, Mr. Lenk. Do not question the level of the University of Tartu. The University of Tartu prepares very good doctors. When a person has completed his/her family doctor's residency, he/she is a ready doctor, whether he/she is 25 or 40 years old. A 40-year-old doctor also has the right to apply for starting allowance if he undergoes his first residency and goes to work in the country for the first time. In that sense, it doesn't matter. Estonian doctors are very well prepared. I have never had to question the quality of my teaching at the University of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U23	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. A voter asked me to be more specific. If the doctor does not come from a European country but from a third country, does he also have the possibility to receive the planned start-up funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U25	Thank you. Now, I think we should go to the bill for a second. The question was a little bit different, and I don't have the bill with me. There's the principle that a person must have completed a family medicine residency. I do not remember that it would have been said that he must have graduated from the University of Tartu, it has been said that once he has completed his residency and will start working for the first time. It is important to see whether a person from another country has worked in the past or will work in Estonia for the first time. Thank you for a good question. Let us clarify this in the Committee on Social Affairs and make sure that this is clearly stated in the legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U26	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The report of the National Audit Office reveals many shortcomings regarding the sustainability of the family doctor system that need to be addressed in the near future. The Special Committee on State Budget Control held a public hearing where this issue was discussed. Two things were brought out there. First of all, family doctors must devote a great deal of time and energy to those who are struggling to cope, i.e. they must play the role that social workers actually play in local governments. Secondly, local family doctors must also provide medical care to uninsured persons. This is one major problem that has not been resolved. How does the whole system provide for the treatment of uninsured persons?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U28	Thank you. As regards the first half of the question, i.e.'social assistance', I do not want to deprive any person of the right of access to a family doctor. Everyone has the right to see a family doctor, regardless of their complaint. If a person has an appointment with a family doctor, goes to an appointment at that time and complains about something, then the issue of the professionalism of the doctor is already a matter of determining whether it is a medical problem or a social problem, and the family doctor must refer him to the right provider. As far as the way we see the system as a whole is concerned, there are not really very significant concerns. The audit of the National Audit Office gave us good ideas. We are trying to bring the best of the audit of the National Audit Office to you, in the sense that some changes go to the minister's regulation, some go to the government's regulation, some require the approval of the Riigikogu. Many of these changes are in progress. As far as uninsured persons are concerned, I have said this before and will continue to say that all persons in Estonia have the opportunity to receive health insurance. This option has been created and created through the unemployment fund. If a person is registered as an unemployment fund, he or she will receive health insurance. There is a free choice of whether or not he or she is on the register of the unemployment fund. He or she can take care of it through the self-service office. If it is not possible for him to go to the unemployment fund every month, you can call there and tell them he can't come this month, but he will come next month. So the opportunity and the right to be insured is there for all people. Similarly, unavoidable aid is guaranteed to all. So this side is covered. We can argue whether the health insurance of persons who do not show themselves to the state at all and who do not come into the unemployment fund should be paid by the state or not. We have chosen the path of providing them with inevitable help. Otherwise, we want to help people through the unemployment fund and various labour market measures. We have chosen this path, and I believe that this is rather a fair way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U29	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U30	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There were quite serious proposals for local authorities to take the initiative to regulate the work of family doctors on their territory, but this system, of course, has difficulties for both local authorities and family doctors. In the case of family doctors, there was no great desire to change anything. My question is this: what do you mean, Mr Minister, about the possibility for local authorities to participate in regulating the work of family doctors in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U31	Thank you. This is the one place where we have said that we are organising it by the state. That is why it is proposed that the organisation of the family medical system should be transferred to the Health Board. If local governments are ready to come to the aid of family doctor practices on a daily basis, this is only positive. You might want to look at Beach's example, which has gone well. Tallinn, as far as I know, is still in some trouble with its launch. But in that sense, I don't see very big problems here. If the doctor is doing his doctor's work and the municipality is willing to come to the aid to cover the maintenance costs of the building, for example, there is no problem. This is certainly positive in certain cases and in smaller municipalities. But the family doctor has a choice. If he gets a bounty to keep his practice and handle the organizational part of it himself, he's entitled to do so. If he or she needs the help of a municipality, he or she is equally entitled to ask for the help of a municipality. If the municipality helps, it is only positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U32	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It was very refreshing to hear from you that if you follow the law, it turns out that all Estonian people really have the opportunity to be insured, some just don't feel comfortable messing around. But the obvious fact is that if people didn't drink, smoke, do gymnastics in the morning, and behave in health at all, there would be considerably fewer sick people among them. If we do not want to provide assistance to uninsured persons at the expense of insured persons, perhaps the same logic would continue and the money paid by non-smokers would not cure smokers? In this way, costs could be significantly reduced, including the financing of family doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U34	Thank you. That was your opinion. If you have a specific proposal to amend the law, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U35	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U36	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is very welcome when the financing of family doctors is organized and when a finger is handed over here and there, because the family doctor is indeed the primary level that we all need. But in principle, the funding of family doctors is bounty-based. Indeed, there is a small difference between the list of family doctors and the list of older people and the number of children. According to who likes patients more, the list can be slightly adjusted. But the family doctor here doesn't really matter what the quality of his work is. That's not what the money's gonna do! When the family medical system was put in place, it was built on quite a lot of medical ethics. The family doctor, it's the salt of the earth. This is the first doctor to be approached with the disease. Of course, he must be guided by the Hippocrates oath. The Hippocrates oath states, yes, that a doctor must treat patients in the light of his best knowledge and wishing a person only good. But it also says that the doctor must receive a fair reward for it. We do not currently have any laws governing health care, starting with the Health Services Organisation Act and ending with the Law of Obligations Act, not a word about ethics anywhere. It's as good as forgotten. We are talking about doctors fleeing abroad, Finland and elsewhere. I also recently saw an announcement in the paper that a doctor was needed at a health centre in Finland. I speak Finnish, and I even had this ugly idea that if I go to Finland five years before I retire and work there as a doctor for five years, I will receive a Finnish pension. The Finnish pension is much higher than the one here. Parliamentary pension no longer exists, it has been taken away. But the people chose my parliament, and I decided to continue here. But those doctors who work as district doctors... Almost got a glitch. However, there are a little different principles in the work of the departmental doctor and the general practitioner, a little different organisation of work. At present, the family doctor is often left alone in the country because he or she does not have much opportunity to consult a colleague. Even at a family doctor's centre in the city, which employs five, eight, or twelve family doctors, these doctors are not so much colleagues as competitors. They have difficulty consulting each other. They cannot send their patients to an older colleague, for example, to ask for his opinion. That's how we try to work! Doctors who run away from Estonia do not leave here because of wages. Let's be honest, the doctor's salary in Estonia is not bad; it is a very good salary. They're going away because the system isn't satisfactory. They go because the system doesn't work. It's because a lot of doctors have an ethical crisis. He's a doctor, he's learned this area, he's been told that he must always act in the sick's best interest, always help a sick person when a person's in pain or trouble, something must be done to help a person. But you can't send an operation to a person because you're out of operating money for this quarter, you can't send it to a consultant, because the order is three months. How do you work in a system like this? Speaking of the doctors who are now coming from abroad to Ida-Virumaa, I know quite well how this works. They come mostly from Ukraine. They will not be family doctors for us, because the Ukrainian doctor will never be able to do it as a family doctor. They'll be surgeons. They're quite qualified. They are the head of the department of a district or city hospital in Ukraine. They're not bad doctors. But they won't stay here long, they're going to go elsewhere in Europe. The money must, of course, be given to doctors, but the health network must also be organized. This is something we need to talk about for a long time and not just today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U37	Thank you very much, Mr Viktor Vassilyev. It's a good thing you still chose the Riigikogu. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U38	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kotkas, Neeme Suur, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütel and Jaan Õunapuu on 20 October. a request for information on the definition of winter ports. Mr Kalev Eagle, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. According to the 2009 icebreaking plan, each port should be treated individually on the basis of different aspects when determining which port is the winter port where the State provides icebreaking services. It is reasonable for a preliminary assessment to be made on the basis of formal criteria, namely the turnover of the port's cargo or passengers. In addition to freight and passenger turnover, the provision of icebreaking services may also be based on the regional importance of the port. One such port of travel and freight of regional importance is a state-owned port of Virtsu in Läänemaa, which is managed by the AS Saarte Lines. We recognise that its current annual turnover of 400000 tonnes does not correspond to the conventional turnover of 750000 tonnes. However, the absence of icebreaking services does not allow the port to increase its turnover. As a result, the development of the port and the regional economy will be slowed down. According to the signatories, the situation has arisen because of the low turnover because there is no icebreaking service, and there is no icebreaking service because of the low turnover. This will not do the honours of the Estonian state. We have four questions for the Minister, to which we expect meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U40	Thank you very much. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U41	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Does the Minister consider it fair to distort competition between ports through the provision of an icebreaking service by the State? ' The icebreaking development plan lays down criteria for the volume of goods, the number of passengers to be met by the port in order to be included in the list of ports receiving the icebreaking service. This is certainly not a distortion of competition, as the conditions are known to everyone. If the port fulfils the specified conditions, it shall be added to the list. As icebreaking is expensive, the state's financial resources are limited and navigation charges collected from ships do not cover the costs of icebreaking, a choice must be made among ports. Such a policy is also in use in our neighbouring countries. It is convenient to keep open ports with a higher turnover in the case of large ice, as they are important employers in the region and important links in the logistics chain. The second question: Has the provision of icebreaking services by the State to the port of Virtsu been considered on the basis of the regional importance of the port? " There is a possibility that ports of regional importance whose turnover has not reached the formal criteria will still be served by an icebreaker. Each of these cases shall be analysed separately. In Estonia, no port has received this status from the point of view of icebreaking, as there are reasonable alternative options for redirecting goods. Due to the ice conditions of the Port of Virtsu, temporary closure of freight would not have insurmountable consequences as the port's cargo volume is small and companies will be able to redirect their goods to either Paldiski or Pärnu in the winter. Given also the ice conditions in the Gulf of Riga, the icebreakers' ice breaking capacity and the costs of ice breaking, it is currently not possible to add the port of Virtsu to the list of ports receiving the icebreaking service. The third question: 'Since the ports of Pärnu and Virtsu are relatively close to each other, forming so-called even ports (such as Kunda and Sillamäe) and keeping them open does not create economic costs, can the state view them as a single icebreaking object? ' Unfortunately, it is not that holding the port of Virtsu would not entail much extra costs. Indeed, the icebreaking development plan uses the term 'pairports'. These are ports which are close to each other and which do not require disproportionate costs to be kept open. Unlike the so-called single ports of Sillamäe and Kunda or Kopli Bay, Virtsu and Pärnu cannot be counted as even ports. Sillamäed and Kunda can be served with one icebreaker; the hook to Kunda would be only ten nautical miles long. The Port of Virtsu is 30 to 40 nautical miles from the shipping route to Pärnu. Given the ice conditions in the Virtsu area, it should be assumed that it would take about 20 hours for an icebreaker to travel back and forth in average and severe ice conditions, with an escort speed of four to five knots. The different number of vessels in the ports of Pärnu and Virtsu also complicates the situation. On average, there are three ships in the port of Pärnu, which require one or two icebreakers constantly working in this direction, depending on the ice conditions. In 2010 there were 560 ships in Pärnu, an average of two ships per week in the port of Virtsu. In 2010, 77 cargo ships were in Virtsu. By placing an icebreaker working on the Pärnu line to serve Virtsu, there would be a 20-hour hole in the direction of Pärnu, which would confuse the entire logistics chain. The operation of the Port of Virtsu would therefore require the introduction of an additional icebreaker, which would serve the port of Virtsu in particular. As the Estonian state does not have another icebreaker suitable for the Gulf of Pärnu, a ship capable of breaking ice should be chartered from outside. This would cost between EUR 500000 and EUR 600000 because the vessel would need at least two months. In 2010, navigation fees and lighthouse charges of EUR 33000 were collected from ships that visited the port of Virtsu. The difference is more than ten times. As a remark, if you look at the demand for ports in the difficult winters of ice, even one step ahead of the port of Virtsu is the port of Romesaare. If you look at the impact on the economy, the icebreaking capacity in the port of Romesaare should be guaranteed before the port of Virtsu. Question 4: How does the Minister assess the current functioning of the 'Estonian Ice Breaking Development Plan 2006 to 2013' and the impact on export and transit transport? 'In conclusion, the implementation of the icebreaking development plan approved by the government in March 2006 has not taken place at the planned pace, in particular due to a lack of budgetary opportunities. Above all, this concerns a program of building new icebreakers. In other respects, the icebreaking development plan has been supportive of the fact that all these years the Estonian state has managed to break the ice in the necessary ports, which has not led to significant obstacles to Estonia's exports or transit operations. As regards the programme for the construction of new icebreakers, for information, in 2007 the Maritime Administration concluded a contract with the Finnish company Aker Arctic Technology as a result of public procurement. The subject of the contract was the design of a multipurpose icebreaker, the construction of a basic project, the preparation of public procurement for international construction, as well as the supervision of construction during shipbuilding. Due to the lack of money, the contract was suspended on 30 May 2008. This, above all, is not because we were unable to comply with this agreement, but because without developing a long-term icebreak financing model. As of now, this agreement has been suspended until December 2015 with the agreement of the parties. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, in cooperation with other ministries involved, will develop a more sustainable and realistic financing model for new icebreakers. One of the most serious options is to plan these funds in part for the next budget period of the European Union, both in the funds allocated directly to the Estonian Government and in the funds available to the European Commission. Of course, it is early to announce the final solution. But it is clear that we need to move forward with the development of the ice-breaking capacity. In conclusion, in these years, the absence of a new icebreaker or icebreakers has not significantly damaged the transport of goods through our ports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U42	Thank you very much, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Questions. Let's start with my colleague Neeme the Great.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. There's been a pretty big investment in building a cargo dock in Virtsu harbor. When you made this investment, you certainly calculated the freight potential of the Port of Virtsu. So, did you just count on ice-free time transportation? If you have assessed this potential, what were the results? What could be the maximum use of the Port of Virtsu? Can't giving up the icebreaking service reduce this potential?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U44	Thank you. I don't know how to say it. We can certainly check the maximum volume of freight transport at the Port of Virtsu. I'm not saying that right now. Of course, the cargo volume of the Port of Virtsu is such that the port was certainly not able to serve it in the past. It is quite clear that if the volume of freight transport is increasing and the modal shift in the logistics chain is economically irrational, in the case of the Port of Virtsu, it is certainly not possible to rule out the problem of ice breaking. Once again, this means certain investments. Ideally, icebreaking capacity should pay off through navigation fees. Ice conditions can be different in winter. The last winters have been in relatively difficult ice conditions and then such an investment cannot be excluded. We are still coming to the same question that the icebreaking capacity of the Port of Virtsu requires a considerable investment. In my reply to the question, I wanted to stress that the comparison with the eastern ports of Estonia does not relate to the issue, because Kunda and Sillamäed can be served with one icebreaker even during difficult ice conditions, but in Pärnu and Virtus this is not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U45	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Thank you for your comprehensive answers. At the beginning of the year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs got down with a very constructive national development plan 'Estonian Maritime Policy 2011 My only complaint to this development document is that maritime transport and ports have been left there unbounded with icebreaking services. As the time for the current icebreaking development plan runs out immediately, does the Minister consider it possible that the new icebreaking plan will become one of the organic components of the Estonian maritime policy or a separate chapter? They're two things that require each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U47	Thank you. I totally agree with you. As a remark, I am shocked that the Riigikogu does not want to discuss it, but that is why. If you don't want to, you don't. Then let's discuss it in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U48	Wrong talk, wrong talk, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U49	It is clear that maritime policy envisages the development of individual development or action plans, including the development of an icebreaking plan, but there are other such issues. It's essential. We have not yet decided whether it will be possible to include the icebreaking development plan as one chapter in the transport development plan for the next seven years or whether it needs to be developed separately. I would like to remind you that the development plan for 2006 to 2013 was developed because, in 2003 to 2004, the ice conditions were complicated for a long time, but we did not have a systematic, analysed and conceptual document for icebreaking and needed to be developed in some ways outside the system. I believe that we are now pretty good at this subject and that it is possible to include it in the transport development plan as well. Once again, we cannot exclude small ports. I'm sure you'll have to be commended for that. But we have to understand what it costs and how much it gives back economically. Once again, if we look at the Väinameri ports and their freight potential, then as of now (this is confirmed by the Saaremaa Lines, which are vitally interested that freight transport would be uninterrupted and ports would earn money), the port of Romessaare is a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U50	Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I agree that the icebreaking service is quite expensive fun for the Estonian taxpayer. The three-month rental price of a ship from Norway is EUR 3,42 million plus the price of fuel. That's a lot of money for three months. It shows it's an expensive service. But I remember that last winter, for example, when there were pretty difficult ice conditions and thick ice in the Väinameri Sea, the new ships of the shipping company, as I recall, didn't once have any ice left, and had a pretty good time reeling through this thick ice. Have you discussed the possibility of using these ships, I don't know, permanently or exceptionally? The point of the question is whether there has been enough thorough review within Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U52	I didn't quite understand the question. First, the ships of Saaremaa Shipping Company as well as the Tallink ships belong to the icebreaking class. So that the person who follows our discussion outside the hall can understand us, I say that we usually talk about cargo ships. Do you use these passenger ships, whether they are Tallink ships or new ships rented by the Saaremaa Shipping Company? No totally extraordinary circumstances can be ruled out, if this may be temporarily reasonable. However, it is quite clear that using passenger ships as an icebreaking function for a relatively long time (usually up to three months, perhaps less, perhaps more, depending on the winter) is quite non-economic and, in the end, it will have to be paid in the same way from the budget. You also referred to one of the winter solutions approved by the government. Indeed, this shows the market position. This year, we have chosen a different solution than usual for this very reason, in order not to allow our competitors to give a message outside Estonia about the unreliability of our transport corridors. Our transport corridors are used consistently for 12 months a year. This is why we did not want to take the risk and simply hope that perhaps this winter will not require additional icebreaking capacity in addition to the existing ones. It could cost a lot of money. We saw that we could not choose this solution in order to use, on a rolling basis, some minor icebreaking capacity, as we did last winter. In fact, demand for ice-breaking capacity has increased in Finland, Sweden and Russia. The fundamental answer is as follows: If freight transport is to increase in the Gulf of Finland, we still need to move forward with our ice-breaking capacity. As I said in my reply, the key is in a sensible financing solution. We very much hope that we will find a solution here, and we will also get the approval of it in the government and in the Riigikogu, because we are definitely working on it, it is important for the development of Estonian transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U53	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U54	Madam President! Regional policy is a complex matter. This is not just the field of one minister or the field of activity of one ministry, but it is a horizontal issue. I have also stated before that many other ministries have access to regional policy. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is definitely one of them. We must be happy to acknowledge that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been working very hard on regional policy, planning large investments specifically for the development of transport infrastructure. This also applies to our ports, as well as to the ports of the Western region. When it comes to passenger ports, the investments made by the islands' routes in passenger ports with the support of European Union funds have been nearly 480 million kroons, which the Port of Virtsu has received approximately 100 million kroons. It has been specially supplemented by about 90 million kroons for the construction of a cargo dock. I speak in crowns because investments were made in crowns. This is all very grateful. The construction of the freight port, Virtsu, was already in question in 2000. This was not a flash of thought, but was part of a long-term plan for the development of the region. In 2009, a 100-metre-long cargo dock was also opened there. With the investment in the passenger port, there are currently eight quays in the port of Virtsu. The Port of Virtsu can accommodate vessels of 120 metres in length and 20 metres in width with a draught of 6,5 metres. As a result of the current investments, the Port of Virtsu has an extremely important role to play in the economic development of both the Western Region and the Western Region as a whole. However, development can only take place if, after the investment, we do not leave the investment behind, on our own, but the state does everything to make the investment work to the maximum. Its maximum operation in the port of Virtsu would certainly be guaranteed by the provision of icebreaking services. 2010-2011. In 2008, the Estonian state has spent approximately 90 million kroons, or 6 million euros, to purchase the icebreaking service. It's about as much as it is to build a cargo dock at the Port of Virtsu. We just heard from the Minister's answers how much it would cost Virtsu to offer icebreaking services. At the moment, we do not fully understand how much the provision of icebreaking services would allow the turnover of the port of Virtsu to be increased, to the extent that the benefits would be derived. In view of the investments made in the Port of Virtsu, given that in the next planning period the port of Virtsu is the port of the TEN network (Trans-European Networks), the importance of the port is not reduced, it is growing, the importance of the port is not reduced from the point of view of the development of the region, but it is growing. There is no other way but to discuss very seriously what the full potential of Virtsu to serve the flow of goods could be, and to spend not very large sums of money needed to provide Virtsu's icebreaking service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U55	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U56	Let's go to the last question. This is Kalle Laaneti, Rainer Vakra, Jüri Ratas, Viktor Vassilyev, Mailis Repsi, Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Deniss Borodichi, Vladimir Velmani and Tarmo Tamme, members of the Riigikogu. a request for information on the remuneration of judicial officials submitted on 7 November. I would like to ask Mr Kalle Laanet to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! On 7 November, ten opposition politicians from the Centre Party decided to assist the Minister in fulfilling his election promise so that he could speed up the trial. One of the most important aspects of speeding up judicial proceedings is certainly well-motivated and remunerated judicial staff, not only judges but also judicial officials. In our opinion, the scissors are extremely high between the wages of the judicial staff. The wages of judicial officials are low, also considering the skills these people need to have. We therefore have nine questions for the Minister. We have received written answers from the Minister. They were really meaningful. I believe that oral answers are also meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U58	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. To the Minister of Justice's Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U59	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the opposition party for being very interested in the salaries of judicial officials. I must admit that this issue is also very close to the Ministry of Justice. I already said this spring, shortly after taking office, that the rise in the pay of court officials is a priority in court. Once again, thank you for your support. For my part, I confirm the decision of the Ministry of Justice, which has already been said earlier, that if the country can talk about a general increase in wages in the future, then in our system, the first ones whose wages are being raised are judicial officials and other employees with lower levels of pay. Precedently, I say to the honourable MP Kalle Laanet that since the questions raised in the inquiry are literally the same as you asked me in writing, the answers are almost the same. But now to questions and answers. Question 1: "How do you assess the current state of justice, its quality and effectiveness? " The current state of justice, the quality and the effectiveness of justice, I value in the light of the resources available. When compared with other countries of the European Union, on the basis of the report of the European Commission for Effective Justice, the deadlines for Estonian court proceedings are average in all types of proceedings. More recent data (first half of 2011) show that in civil matters in Estonia a solution is reached at first instance in an average of 163 days. By e-mail, we asked for more information from elsewhere. This figure is 249 days in Finland, 255 days in Latvia and 840 in Portugal. Let me remind you that it is 163 in Estonia. Administrative matters are reviewed in Estonia for an average of 134 days, and currently in Finland for example 219 days. It is unfortunately not possible to say more recent data on other countries, as the report of the Committee on Effective Justice will be published next year and then data will be available for 2010. In the case of criminal proceedings, the average duration of proceedings in Estonia last year was 433 days, and the figure for this year's 10 months is 320 days, which is a reduction. The second question: 'Do you consider it important that judicial officials remain in office for a longer time? What have you done or are you doing? " The short answer is yes, I consider it important. Certainly, the long-term retention of judicial officials is important because of the skills and experience acquired in the same position. At the same time, we cannot overlook the fact that more opportunities are being sought today and that wage increases alone would not motivate the official to continue at the workplace, which is no longer of interest or development. It should be borne in mind that substantive decisions cannot be taken in the work of both the Registrar and the Registrar's rapporteur, which is why a number of officials are looking for new tasks and opportunities for more independent work. In the judicial system, it is quite common for session secretaries with or acquiring legal education to move to the position of consultant after experience and skill has been gained. Over 800 officials work in the judicial system. There are several groups of officials and therefore it is natural for many young lawyers to start their careers in court. Under conditions where the turnover of the frame in the courts is not excessive, I believe that the intra-legal movement between the agencies is rather positive and enriches the career of a lawyer. There is certainly no harm to the legal system if lawyers, prosecutors, legal advisers and ministerial staff have worked in court before. I'll speak the numbers now. In 2010, the average flow rate for judicial officials was 9%. Compared to 7% of all state officials, this is not very worrying, all the more so because in some courts the turnover was less than 5%, e.g. 2.6% in the Tartu Circuit Court, 4.6% in the Tartu County Court and 4.9% in the Harju County Court. In order for judicial officials to remain in office for the longer term, we are constantly improving their working conditions. For example, the Jõhvi courthouse was opened in 2010, but only recently the cornerstone of the new Jõgeva courthouse was laid, and we are looking for a location for the Tallinn courthouse. The IT equipment is constantly being updated, and we are also developing a new, more user-friendly and faster judicial information system. I submitted an additional request for EUR 1.8 million for the establishment of a qualified judicial officer's system in the course of the 2012 State Budget Act, but since we do not have a general salary increase, this request was not granted. The third question: 'How do you explain the situation where there is constant training of new officials within the framework of the judicial budget, because officials are easily allowed to work in court due to lack of evidence, but are soon going to more rewarding positions due to low wages? How sustainable do you think such a system is? ' I also explained in the previous reply, but I also stress here that I consider training for judicial officials to be essential and support its continuation at least at the 2011 level. The change of 9% of officials per year is a problem, but the training of other officials directly improved the quality of judicial work. The outgoing official also performed his duties better in court as a result of the training received, and the training of the outgoing official also benefited from the interests of the legal system as a whole. Question 4: 'If you take as a basis the principle that comparable indicators are compared, do you agree that the salaries of judicial officials are not comparable to those of officials of the Ministry of Justice and other agencies in a similar capacity? Why is that? ' Unfortunately, it is not possible to compare precisely the duties of the Ministry of Justice and the courts of first and second instance. In particular, however, the courts are primarily the responsibility of a single authority, which cannot be claimed for the Ministry. Ministry officials operate in different areas of responsibility. The fact that officials in the ministry, in the prosecutor's office and in court are carrying out different duties and that harmonisation of salaries is therefore not, in essence, possible, does not mean that I consider the level of pay for judicial officials to be satisfactory. The salaries of judicial officials are low and I believe that raising them is a priority issue. In the interests of justice, it should be added that, in some cases, the level of remuneration of judicial officials is not significantly lower than that of ministerial officials. For example, the salaries of senior court officials, i.e. senior session secretaries and senior referees, are between EUR 523 and EUR 861, the salaries of ministerial rapporteurs start at EUR 699 and reach EUR 1059, and the salaries of secretaries range from EUR 632 to EUR 884. However, I would like to stress once again that all the works described are very different. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice will increase the salaries of court officials and other employees with lower levels of pay in our system as soon as possible. Question 5: "Has the Ministry actually asked the government for extra money to pay court officials this year? If so, to what extent was the civil servants' salary wanted to be raised, and how much additional money was asked for? 'The increase in the salaries of judicial officials was applied for EUR 1.8 million, both under the 'State Budget Strategy 2012 revisit' and as an additional application for the 2012 budget. Question 6: "The government has set itself the objective of considerably shortening the time limits for proceedings before courts. Based on what analysis has this objective been set? ' The need to shorten the time limits for proceedings arises in particular from the legitimate expectations of the public in this regard. Long procedural periods (in people's view long procedural periods) undermine the image of the judiciary and undermine the economic environment. For the defendant, the duration of the proceedings is very important. Uniform access to justice must be guaranteed in the country. It must not be substantially dependent on the place of residence or the place of residence of the person. The Ministry of Justice shall, at least twice a year, analyse both the judicial procedural statistics and the average procedural times, inter alia, by providing an overview of these matters for discussion at meetings of the Court's Administrative Advisory Board. Shortening procedural time limits also serves the purpose of harmonising time-limits between courts in order to ensure uniform access to justice for all citizens irrespective of their place of residence and place of residence. I personally think that if we, together with the judiciary and the legislator, try to shorten the trial and we fail to achieve the goal of a hundred days, but the trial will be shortened, we have done a great deal for the people and businesses of Estonia. Question 7: How do you plan to further increase the efficiency of work in courts where the workload is very high for both judges and court officials? What measures are planned and when? ' Due to increased burden, funds have been allocated to employ temporary auxiliary staff to improve judicial efficiency. Negotiations on this are also ongoing with a view to the 2012 budget. In addition to hiring auxiliary staff, we are also trying to fill judges' seats. I launched a competition last week to fill six judges' seats. That's the way we're gonna keep going. The eighth question: Will and when will there be a harmonisation of the salaries of the Ministry of Justice and its administration of similar positions? If that's not the plan, then why? " I feel that this question has already been answered, especially in response No 4. In terms of time savings, I'm not going to repeat that. Question 9: 'Quality of justice should be a priority for each government. When can we expect the judicial system to be really valued? ' Without any doubt, the Ministry of Justice still values the judicial system. If you wish, I will use the expression used in your question: there will be real appreciation. The economic crisis did not favour an increase in the wages of judicial officials. As was done in the public sector throughout the country, we were forced to cut wages both in the Ministry and in the area of government in 2009 due to the need for savings. However, wages were cut less than those of the Ministry. Finally, I reiterate that the creation of a qualified and motivated judicial officer is a priority for the Ministry of Justice. As you can hear from the past, it will be valued in practice by taking steps to create a better working environment, to train skilled workers and, hopefully, to raise wages in the coming years. As mentioned above, our priority for wage increases is court officials and other people with lower levels of pay in the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U60	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Now let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, thank you very much for your answers! Can you tell us what the hope is that your additional request from the 2012 state budget will materialise?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U62	Thank you. If you mean wage increases, then since there is a general policy that wages will not rise in 2012, there will, of course, be no wage increases. That's what I've been saying in public. However, the Ministry of Justice has the intention (this will has been clearly expressed) that, when wages generally start to rise, the wages of the court officials and other lower-paid workers in our administration will rise first. We've set ourselves that goal. I don't know, maybe it'll be real in a year. I don't know that right now. We will see what the economic situation will be and how the Estonian state will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U63	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In your reply, you mentioned the time of legal proceedings and the fact that it is much shorter in Estonia than in Finland, Latvia and somewhere else. We have an average of 62 court officials for every 100,000 people. Can you tell us what similar figures are for our neighbours in Finland, Latvia and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U65	Thank you. On the basis of the same report by the same committee on effective justice, I can give you some examples of the number of judicial staff. This link is attached to the inquiry, if there is interest, you can see more about it. For the size of judicial staff, figures are a few years old. The average number is 67.5 judicial staff per 100000 inhabitants. In Estonia, this figure is above the average of 73.8. This figure is the lowest in Norway - 16.7, the highest in San Marino - 185. In Lithuania there are 80.5 court employees per 100000 inhabitants, which is slightly more than in Estonia, and in Latvia there are 67.6, which is slightly less than in Estonia. These are general figures. We are quite close to the average in terms of the number of employees, rather above. It is exactly the same for our neighbours.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U66	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U67	Dear Minister, The increase in the workload of courts and the delay in procedural deadlines are a problem in many countries, not just in Estonia. There are two ways to respond to this problem. One way is to find more judges, appoint more officials and raise officials' salaries. Another option is to see whether the courts, especially the court officials, are carrying out the necessary work. Have you looked at the extent to which the current judicial staff is dealing with unnecessary or empty work, duplication, unnecessary bureaucracy, people's absconding, etc.? Perhaps there are some functions that are unnecessary and burdensome for the administrative apparatus and which could be reduced. Perhaps some functions could be aggregated and improved in terms of the effectiveness of people in performing the remaining functions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U68	Thank you. That's a very good question. This is one of the key issues in the speeding up of the whole trial and court proceedings. We've got a lot of tests going on, and I've mentioned some tests here before. There are quite a number of tasks assigned to courts by a wide variety of laws, based on the fact that people who work in courts are able to decide who can read the law and who can act accordingly. For example, an analysis of the implementation of family law is ongoing. It deals with potential family law bottlenecks. On the basis of their subjective opinion, the judges have said that there are tasks in this regard that they may be carrying out several times and should not perform. The same is true, for example, of the question being dealt with in civil proceedings. Courts often seek out people who do not want to be found. These stories may seem funny at first, but it is actually not very funny when you hear from the judge that the task of finding someone is given to the Estonian Post, and then there are two announcements that they say they went to the door at 10:55 and at 12:14, no one answered, so there is no way to find a person. It's wasted a lot of time, isn't it? We are also dealing with this issue, along with the lowering of state fees. I hope that, at the end of this year, we will be able to take it to the government, if not, it will come to the legislator at the beginning of next year. In fact, inside the procedural economics package there is an unnecessary contraction of judicial work, as far as possible, so that justice can still take place and everyone has access to it, one very important issue. I'm also counting on your expertise to get a good result.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U69	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! It's good to hear that your ministry and your priority are to raise the wages of the court officials. But I ask to be educated: how much are we talking about raising the salaries of these officials by 5%?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U71	I'm not gonna say the percentage of how much wages are going to rise, or I'm gonna have to wait. As I said earlier, we applied for a total of EUR 1.8 million next year, provided that the salary increase is adequate. That's what we'd like from the state budget. If we look at the options for next year, I'm not going to say that percentage because it would create unnecessary expectations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U72	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U73	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking my question because I am going to look a little more closely at the quality of the work of the courts and at the activities of the courts, although I might go a little against the specific subject that has been given to you. The problem is not that judges are not able to determine the dates of hearings in time, but that, for example, if a hearing is announced and there are ten defendants, one of whom is ill, then another suitable date, which may be in a month or two, must be sought. This is how these decisions are postponed. Is there any way to get over this? The judges themselves are in a lot of trouble with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U74	Thank you. I'm sure there's medicine for almost anything. When a person is sick, you just have to take the right medicine. But funny. Just recently we have published (which is available on our website) a study on the risks of corruption in the health care system carried out by RAKE, University of Tartu. One subject that was examined was how easily and in what way doctors give medical certificates. One problem here is perhaps that it is not entirely clear in which case the doctor should give a certificate of absence or what exactly is the basis. A classic example is that a violinist can't work if he has a finger broken because of an accident, but he can definitely come to court. Perhaps one key point is to describe the medical condition more accurately, including for doctors to clarify the picture. We still have some ideas on how to get the parties to the court together better. One issue that has recently been approved by the legislator itself is the appointment of a replacement defender. If a lawyer is unable to arrive, his working schedule does not allow protection for a certain period of time, then the principle of a replacement protector applies. Let's see how it realizes. We try to review these bottlenecks all the time. One aspect that we have not said so far, but in the near future it will be an issue of uninterrupted procedure. In the case of open proceedings, the judges may have the opportunity to take matters into their hands. That's the judge's proposal. Now it's in the analysis stage, I can't tell you how the lot will fall at the end, but one way is that continuous procedures should be better timed so that they are not necessarily in this order. But that's a bill question. I'm hoping to get out of this soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U75	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Kalle Laaneti, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank the Minister for his answers. I'll come back to today's agenda. When the President of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek, spoke in his speech about how well we live in Estonia, how good we are and what role models we set for Europe, he did not say just one thing: would he be able to cope with 500-600 euros a month, or how should we do it? But that's it. We certainly look better and more beautiful from the outside than we really think, but we have room for improvement. I believe that a strong judicial system is the foundation of the rule of law. The judicial system is made up of two parties: judges and judicial officials. If one party is poorly motivated, the system tends to limp, i.e. it suffers from synchronised work and certainly suffers from the result, in the sense that cases cannot be dealt with quickly in the trial and, in some cases, judgments may also suffer. The minister explained, for example, that if you train low-paid court officials, even if they quit, the legal system will, in the end, win. I also agree with that, but rather my position is that maybe pay a little more salary to have experienced and well-educated people at work, so that there is no way that the flow of the frame is constantly increasing. I remember a ministry where I've had the honor of working. There was such a human resources policy that young people were recruited, paid little wages, but they kept training. They were in training during their work, often unable to perform their duties, but when the wings began to wear, they flew into a better nest. I don't think that's necessary. I wish the Minister of Justice every success and strength in achieving the objectives. I believe that our judicial procedures will become better and faster as a result of joint efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U77	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U78	After my hammer strike, it is possible to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U79	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, While often the expressions'meeting voters' and 'the wishes of the voters and fulfilling them' give rise to laughter in our media, I am, indeed, currently in the chair at the request of the voters and at their insistence. The people of South-East Estonia are concerned about the sustainability of rural areas or the possibility of continuing them in Estonia. Those words are not overexploited. Indeed, we are talking about whether the rural areas of border regions, Valgamaa, Võrumaa and also the southern part of Põlva County could be continued. I am specifically talking about two villages today: Ruusmäe village in Haanja rural municipality in Võru County and Koikküla in the municipality of Taheva in Valgamaa. The problem is, both villages are shutting down a post office for the new year. I also asked Prime Minister Ansip today why this is being done, and I hope to have an exhaustive answer to this question. But the question is more serious than we can imagine sitting in this hall in this capital. I went to these villages weeks ago. Post offices are the only thread linking them to the state. It's a public limited company that's gonna lose its offices. There's almost nothing left in these villages to keep life alive. For example, in Koikküla, 18 kilometers from Valga, even an elementary school was shut down a year and a half ago, not to mention that there would be a secondary school or some other educational establishment. There is nothing more in this village than empty windows yawning for the memories of former apartment buildings, only the walls are standing. The post office was the only place people could meet, talk to each other, have any plans. Why did I address this question to Prime Minister Ansip? There's only one reason. Estonian Post is a public limited company. By shutting down post offices, we are simply facilitating profits for this company. We're doing this on a rural basis. I'm going to read a little piece of a letter sent to me. People write that the post office is located in an area where there are no alternatives to the services provided by the post office, such as an ATM. The local store doesn't even have magazines and postcards. The pharmacy is open only two days a week, and the pharmacy no longer exists in the other village. At the post office, however, a citizen of the municipality could use banking services, send money cards, pay payments, buy motor insurance policies, newspapers, magazines, envelopes, stamps, postcards, lottery tickets, call cards, over-the-counter medicines, etc. Many old-age pensioners receive a pension in the bank, as the fee for using bank services at the post office is much lower than if they paid for returning their pension home. Now it's all off in this village. There is no future, people are going away, because there is no point in a young family living in a village where there is no school, there is not even a post office, there is no cultural institution or anything else. Koikküla is only 18 kilometres from Valga, but the bus only goes twice a day and the bus ticket is relatively expensive for the pensioner, even more expensive for him to drive his car. Therefore, we will destroy rural areas in the outskirts of Estonia. Let's ask, "Who's in this interest? I don't know what to say. But if I still thought there was no other way out of the situation than to shut down these post offices, it is now clear to me that this is the determined policy of the Estonian Government. Politics for the extinction of Estonian rural areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U80	Thank you! I call on my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U81	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Our whole life is one big choice, and there's nothing we can do about it. If a pleasant housewife goes to a store and has a limited amount of money with her, she can buy meat, dairy products, and vegetables with this money and give her family a proper meal in the evening. But he has a choice: he can buy a small box of red caviar with this money and then try to set a table for five or six people in the evening. Such choices are constantly in our lives. Analogy with housewife and shop came to mind last week when I was called and asked what I thought about another attack by the Language Inspectorate on Narva City Council. Namely, once again, the council is required to work only in Estonian. I got a call when I was in downtown Tallinn. I stopped and looked around. I found about a dozen and a half violations of the language law. There was a desire to say, 'Keeleinspektsioon, for once, do something useful! Enough of this shit! " People say that if a male cat has nothing to do, he licks his testicles. The language inspection, I think, is that if they have nothing to do, the tickets will be taken to Narva. Ten years have passed since the electoral laws were amended and the language requirement was removed. Whoever's older here remembers how we all signed with our hands that we speak the language. Europe did not agree with this in any way. During the Laari government, this claim was taken down. There is nothing criminal about the gathering of MPs on the Narva Council, of which only three or four could work on the legal documents, decisions and regulations that we deal with. It was the wish of the Narva to send them to that council, and it's sacred. Being on the council, they now have to make an important choice. They must comply with the COKS provisions, such as § 22, which refers to the competence of the council. There are 44 points in this section, not to mention that the latter is worded in this way: 'Other matters brought into the exclusive competence of the Council by law. ' This means that these questions are actually much more. Then you have to choose: either you try to speak Estonian and you do not understand almost anything about what you do, or you work in your own language and ensure the quality of the service in your city. The Narva Council has made its choice, they work in their mother tongue, ensuring that their decisions are correct. In my opinion, the Language Inspectorate should also make its choice. No more bullshit, it's time to do something useful. As a remark, I must say that it is possible at any time in the Narva Council to apply a translation from Estonian to Russian or from Russian to Estonian. Only in this so-called dead season, when the representative of the Language Inspectorate is not in the council hall, no one is demanding that much. Another marginal note: all official documentation is our duty and order in the national language. So how do you know, we'll comply with the law in Narva? But the preference is the quality of our work, not the pride that we made another wrong decision, but we did it in the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-21_U82	Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.09 p.m.
