ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the fifth Tuesday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First of all, the draft law amending the Aviation Act, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Secondly, the draft law amending the Aliens Act and other laws, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of Internal Affairs Ken-Marti Vaher. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel, and fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. The Government of the Republic is represented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the course of the proceedings of the last three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U3	Thank you! Next, please speak to Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Socialists, I will hand over a draft decision which will propose to the government to develop an action plan to reduce the gap between men's and women's wages. The Treaty of Rome laid down the principle of equal pay for equal work in Europe in 1957. Today, more than half a century later, in the country of the European Union, there is a gap between men's and women's wages in Estonia, the deepest in the European Union. So we are a worried child in Europe. The average monthly wage for Estonian women was 200 euros less than the average gross wage for men two years ago. In the European Union, the average difference between men's and women's average wages is 18%, while in the Republic of Estonia, according to the Estonian Labour Force Survey, 31.4% of full-time employees. Therefore, in the light of all the facts known to us, the Social Democrats are convinced that Estonia needs a specific action plan of the Government of the Republic, together with specific measures, to reduce the gap between men's and women's wages. Here's our draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U5	Thank you. I'm asking for a speech chair in Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U6	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of eight members of the Central Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The inquiry concerns the limitation of tax incentives for special-marked fuel. On 5 May this year, the Government approved an amendment to the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, which limits tax incentives for specially labelled fuels. The Government plans to amend the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel in two steps. First, the use of specially labelled liquid fuel for stationary engines and mining, forestry and construction works will cease. It should enter into force on 1 January 2012. In the second phase, proposals with the same content are scheduled to be presented in 2011 and should concern rail transport of passengers and goods, shipping, heat and electricity production and agriculture. We are putting six questions to the Minister for Finance to find out what are the reasons for the changes and how this change will be compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U7	Thank you very much. There are no further drafts or inquiries to be submitted. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts, the adoption of which is decided by the Board of the Riigikogu in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, and one inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Here's the news. First, the Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of a Council for the Grant of Gambling Tax" submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has appointed it as the leading committee of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft is 11 May at 6 p.m. Secondly, on Wednesday, 11 May, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Thirdly, I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. It is also noted that today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in the Chamber of the Baltic German Support Group, convened by Peter Võsa, and a meeting of the Youth Support Group, convened by Kalle Palling. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, let's do the presence check. 85 delegates registered as present, 16 missing. Dear members of the Riigikogu, let's get to today's agenda. On the agenda there are six draft decisions of the Riigikogu, one draft law and an important national issue for the discussion of energy savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U8	The first item is the first reading of draft No 18 of the decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Organisation' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U9	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee decided on 12 April to initiate the formation of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. We turned to the political groups of the Riigikogu to form a delegation, the political groups worked and proposed the following to the Committee on Foreign Affairs: the head of the delegation, Marko Mihkelson, members Sven Mikser, Mati Raidma and the alternate, Kadri Simson. There was also time for amendments, the deadline for their submission was 29 April. No proposals were received in due time. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the establishment of a delegation at its meeting on 2 May and, after a short but constructive debate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided by consensus to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and the draft adopted as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U10	Thank you very much. Looks like there's no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. Looks like most people are here. Can I proceed to the vote? I will put the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, Estonian delegation' to the final vote on draft no 18, submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As a result of 79 votes in favour, draft No 18 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation', submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U11	We go to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu decided on 18 April, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, to initiate the establishment of an Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We proposed that the political groups present members of the delegation. The political groups proposed the following composition of the delegation: Mr Andres Herkel, the Head of Delegation, Mr Margus Hanson and Mr Mailis Reps, as well as the alternate members Paul-Eerik Rummo, Mr Indrek Saar and Mr Ester Tuiksoo. It was time to reconsider its decision and to propose amendments until 29 April. No amendments were received by the Commission. On 2 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the establishment of a delegation and, after a short but constructive debate by consensus, found that the first reading could be concluded and the draft adopted as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U13	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. You don't want to open negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. Let's get to the voting procedure, ask all members of the Riigikogu to come to the Chamber! I will put to the final vote draft No 19 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As a result of 78 votes in favour, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U14	We go to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U15	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu decided on 12 April to initiate the formation of an Estonian delegation to the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia. In order to form a delegation, we addressed the political groups and the political groups proposed that the Committee on Foreign Affairs set up a delegation in the following composition: Head of Delegation Laine Randjärv, Deputy Head of Delegation Aadu Must, members Aivar Kokk, Valeri Korb, Väino Linde, Rein Randver, Andre Sepp, Sven Sester, Neeme Suur, Jaanus Tamkivi, Ülo Tulik and Vladimir Velman. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also gave time to propose amendments. No amendments were received by 29 April, which allowed the Committee on Foreign Affairs to reach a decision to set up a delegation by consensus on 2 May and to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and the draft adopted as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U16	Thank you. No questions for the waitress. You don't want to open negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. Let's get ready for the vote again. I will put to the final vote the draft No 20 of the decision of the Riigikogu "Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. With the result of 81 votes in favour, draft No 20 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia', submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U17	Our fourth item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Establishment of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U18	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 April, the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee decided, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu, to establish an Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. We turned to the political groups and, on the basis of the proposals received from them, a delegation was formed: Head of Delegation Väino Linde, members Juku-Kalle Raid and Olga Sõtnik, alternate members Jaak Allik, Rait Maruste and Indrek Raudne. No relevant proposals were received by 29 April, no deadline for amendments. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft decision at its meeting on 2 May and, after the debate, we decided by consensus to propose that the first reading be closed and that the draft be adopted as a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U19	Thank you very much, Marko Mihkelson, for your thorough presentation. There are no questions and there are no suggestions for opening negotiations. Let's get ready for the voting procedure again. The commission's proposal was to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. I will put to the final vote draft No 21 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As a result of 82 votes in favour, draft No 21 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe', submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U20	Good Riigikogu! We come to today's fifth item, which is the first reading of draft No 30 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre' presented by the Committee on the Environment. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on the Environment, Tõnis Lukas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu carried out its duty and submitted a draft decision appointing new members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre on the basis of the Forest Act. Under this law, we need to appoint two new members in this hall to the council of the State Forest Management Centre and the Environment Committee proposes that these members be Liisa-Ly Pakosta and Indrek Raudne. I ask the Riigikogu to support this draft decision in today's vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U22	Thank you, Mr Lukas. You have a question. Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U23	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Is this the beginning of some new political practice that only members of one political party belong to the council of such a very important organisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U24	Guess we're having a relationship with the woods.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U25	Next question. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U26	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. Would you tell us how many candidates there were and how the Commission made its choice, based on what principles?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U27	The candidates were four, as I recall, and the Commission made its decision by voting. The votes were divided so that Liisa-Ly Pakosta received five votes, Indrek Raudne also five votes, other candidates Rainer Vakra and Neeme the Great received fewer votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U28	Thank you. The next question is Peep Arult.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The question is, did you in the Commission also identify the relationship between the other two candidates and the forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U30	Thank you for a good question. With regard to the voting motivations of the members of the Commission, we did not carry out any further review; everyone's vote remained a matter of conscience. In any case, Liisa-Ly Pakosta and Indrek Raudset were most supported by the proposed candidates and they are certainly very good representatives of the Riigikogu in dealing with forestry issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U31	Thank you. Next question, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U32	Thank you. Dear waitress, It's really interesting. Can you explain what kind of relationship you have with the forest? Are they really the kind you can talk about in front of the kids we have on the balcony right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U33	Yeah, sure. The historical textbook also includes, for example, a sketch of the forest brothers' bunker. So it is very specifically fixed in the curriculum and there is nothing forbidden in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U34	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U35	I now have a question as to what the link between Forest Brotherhood and RMK is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U36	Again, the voting motivations were for each member of the environmental committee of the Riigikogu to decide. However, the Riigikogu may have the idea of supporting those competent people who have been nominated by the Committee on the Environment as candidates for membership in the field of forest management. I believe you can certainly vote for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U37	Thank you. Mr Riisalu, I would like to remind you that it is possible for everyone to ask a question on this point. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! To make it a little more serious, I ask: what could be the functions of these esteemed council members in the Council if they were elected there?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U39	They must take part in Council meetings and make important economic policy decisions for the country and the people. It must also be ensured that RMK's activities comply with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U40	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mr. Mixer!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the Social Democratic Party Group cannot support the final vote on the draft tabled. I want to explain this very briefly. Good practice, which has unfortunately been violated in the past in this Chamber, says that if the Riigikogu appoints more than one member to the Council, there should be a representation of both the coalition and the opposition. This is the first time this noble principle has not been followed. However, I would like to give two compliments to the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. First of all, for showing up in a jacket today. Secondly, for being able to force even two of his party partners into this important council in the short term of the leadership of the Committee on the Environment. So not only is there a lack of respect for the principle of coalition-opposition representation, but the stories are that only one of the four political parties represented in the Riigikogu has become representatives of the Council of the State Forest Management Centre. As Social Democrats, there is no reason to doubt either Liisa-Ly Pakosta, member of the Committee on Culture, or Indrek Raudse, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, in the knowledge and competence of forest management, but the political good practice here has been severely violated and therefore the Social Democrats are voting against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U42	Thank you, Sven Mikser! Call chair, Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U43	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to hand over a small mandate to the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre, which will be elected immediately. I have no reason to doubt the love and understanding of our beautiful homeland by Indrek Raudse or Liisa-Ly Pakosta, so as members of the RMK's council, I urge them not to strip our beloved fatherland so uglylyly. All of you driving around Estonia have probably been disturbed by the sight of felling meadows like the battlefield on our magnificent highways. It's like the war has gone through these places. In the previous Riigikogu, I tried to discuss whether we should supplement our Code of Landscape Protection. It has been said that it is reasonable to come to Estonia because there is intact and beautiful nature here. But right now it seems to me that there is not much left of this beautiful nature, for the simple reason that the State Forest Management Centre especially loves to cut the state forest along large roads. It's the best way to get there. I hope that the members of our immediate elected council will take considerable steps to ensure that Estonia's landscape is preserved as we want to see it, and that we and our guests have what to look at. Good luck with your work. I hope that this call will be given practical consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U44	Thank you. No more requests have been registered, I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. Let's get to the voting procedure. I will put to the final vote draft no. 30 of the Riigikogu's decision " Appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre" submitted by the Committee on the Environment. 48 delegates voted in favour and 15 against, with no abstentions. The nomination of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment, No 30 has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U45	The sixth item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu decision "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre" of the Committee on the Environment. Mr Lukas, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, would like to speak again.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, another more exciting draft with which we would like to name one Council, not two more, but four new members. Namely, the board members of the Environmental Investment Centre are appointed by the four large halls, and before that, the four current members of the board must be called back in accordance with the same draft. We propose that these new members are Siim Kabrits, Tõnis Kõiv, Rein Randver and Andrus Saare. I would ask for this draft to be supported today at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U47	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. Let's get ready for the vote. I will put to the final vote the decision of the Riigikogu 'Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and the appointment of new members', submitted by the Committee on the Environment, draft no. 31. 81 delegates voted in favour, there are no respondents or abstentions. Draft No 31 of the decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and appointment of new members' submitted by the Committee of the Environment has been adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U48	Today's seventh item is the first reading of Bill No 24 on Amendment to the Liquid Fuel Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The amendments to the Liquid Fuel Act, which entered into force on 1 April of this year, apply guarantees to fuel sellers as a prerequisite for obtaining registration of the sale of fuel in the register of economic activities. Under the Liquid Fuel Act, the provision of collateral and the amount of collateral depend on the type of fuel seller involved. If the seller of the fuel is guaranteed EUR 1 million when the fuel is released from the excise warehouse for consumption, the security shall be EUR 100000 for a seller who sells only the fuel released for consumption. Paragraph 42 of the Liquid Fuel Act gives the Tax and Customs Board discretion, under certain conditions, to increase and reduce the abovementioned guarantee amounts. The guarantee of EUR 1 million for the seller of fuel released for consumption from the excise warehouse can be reduced from 2013, the reduction of the guarantee of the seller of the fuel released for consumption is already possible under the current law. However, as regards the specificity of the reduction of the guarantee, there is no need in line with the objective of the Liquid Fuel Act and the impossibility of reducing the amount of the guarantee applicable to sellers of fuels not yet admitted to consumption before 2013 places an excessive burden on sellers who are legally active and for whom there is no need to apply the guarantee or where there is a possibility to reduce the guarantee. In this respect, the regulation of the Liquid Fuel Act is not moderate and therefore does not comply with the principle of proportionality. In order to ensure the proportionality of the regulation, the reference to 1 January 2013 should be deleted in the above provision on the reduction of the security for fuel sellers. With regard to the proposed amendments, subsection 42 (6) is deleted, which provides for the possibility of a reduction of a guarantee of 1 million before 2013 for a variety of chemical products or persons handling oil shale oil only, and the second sentence of Paragraph 44 (2) is deleted, which limits the reduction of the guarantee in the case of a guarantee of 1 million until 1 January 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U50	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U51	Dear waitress, When the same law was discussed here a few months before the elections, it was said that this law, with such guarantee rates, is necessary to put the fuel market in order and that it is precisely these rates that have been carefully calculated. Now, as you may have heard from your report, this law has been in force for six weeks. What has changed during the period of application of this law, that the Riigikogu must change the law so quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U52	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The introduction of a regulation on the guarantee of the Liquid Fuel Act is essential in order to clean up the fuel market and drive out of the market those engaged in illegal activities, such as those committing tax fraud. But yes, the law already in force, which was adopted by the previous Riigikogu on 22 February, needs to be specified in certain legal nuances. This clarification gives the Estonian Tax and Customs Board the right to reduce the minimum guarantee provided by law also for those operators for whom the current law does not allow this possibility. This makes the burden imposed by law less stringent and precludes the treatment of law-abiding persons and those involved in the infringement of the law with equal rigour.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U53	Thank you. Next question, Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U54	Thank you. Good waitress! This draft is intended to offer the possibility of a reduction in the guarantee rate. This will be brought forward to large fuel companies in time because the current law does not guarantee equal treatment. Good waitress, do you not think that the differentiation of the minimum deposit also violates the principle of equal treatment and, for example, in three months' time it will be necessary to amend this law after further analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U55	Honourable questioner, I don't think so. The fact that the law distinguishes between liquid fuel operators who have to lodge a guarantee when the fuel is put into circulation, from those who handle fuel already in circulation, is an activity of different weight categories. The risk varies from country to country and depends on whether the fuel exits the excise warehouse, where excise duty is to be paid immediately on the total amount of the transaction, or whether it is the operators involved in retail sales, where VAT is calculated on the added value. That is why the law has distinguished two categories and I do not see the problem of unequal treatment here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U56	Thank you. Next question, Lauri Laasi.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U57	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Toomas Saks, the CEO of the oil company, has said that the law, which has not yet been practically operational, is already being converted and, unfortunately, this time in the interest of fraudsters. Why does the Estonian state not guarantee the necessary code so that the tax administration can do its work effectively and taxes are collected?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U58	Honourable members of the oil company have indeed addressed the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu. This is quite a long letter, which contains different approaches to the subject and which has been discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Oil Association considers that the regulation proposed in today's draft is contrary to the Liquid Fuel Act adopted on 22 February. I don't share that view. The draft we are dealing with today is certainly not contrary to the purpose of this law. The regulation of the guarantees provided by the law still serves the purpose of excluding offenders from the market and punishing them and tidying up the fuel market. This is the concern of the state, as well as the purpose of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U59	Thank you. Next question, Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! To understand this law better, I'll ask you about a paragraph of the explanatory statement. You claim that the regulation of the Liquid Fuel Act is not moderate and therefore does not comply with the principle of proportionality. Why don't you explain for a while exactly what that means?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U61	I'm trying to explain. According to the Constitution, everyone has the right to engage in entrepreneurship, but this right is not absolute. The State may lay down regulations and restrictions, but these restrictions must be proportionate and serve the purpose for which they are intended. According to the law adopted on 22 February, the security applicable to the release of fuel is applied with the same degree of rigour, not only to persons who have behaved and continue to do so, but also to those who commit offences and are not law-abiding. As we know, the Tax and Customs Board exercises control over compliance with the law. If we give the Tax and Customs Board the opportunity to reduce the guarantee for persons who are law-abiding, this will in no way prevent the aim of the law from being taken out of the market by tax fraudsters and other offenders.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U62	Thank you. Next question, Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, certain fuel companies are interested in reducing the security standards. In this respect, I have a question for you: how much can they be and how many companies will win when this law is passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U64	First of all, I do not agree with this approach. Those companies that are registered as fuel handlers are around 370, and those who have the right to apply until 31 May for permission to continue their activities are about half of those who are simply mentioned in the register. In fact, the process has already begun to improve and, as far as I know, the Tax and Customs Board has promised at the beginning of June to give a more precise overview of how the law has worked, how regulations have applied in practice and what the impact of the law will be on the fuel market.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U65	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U66	Thank you. Dear rapporteur, in your explanatory memorandum you refer to the violation of the principles of § 31 of the Constitution and, in this connection, § 11. I'd start with § 31. There's only three sentences. I would ask you to quote or, in your own words, to say which particular sentence of paragraph 31 is in line with this explanatory statement. What's corrupted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U67	Any violation of rights, any restriction must be proportionate. At the moment, with equal rigour, I emphasise: with rigour, both those who obey the law and those who break the law are treated. The Tax and Customs Board has no possibility of reducing the guarantee in justified cases before 1 January 2013. This restriction is in no way proportionate in the sense that I do not know how this restriction hinders the achievement of the objectives of the law. The purpose of the law is, however, to treat offenders more strictly. After all, there can be no justification for treating persons who are law-abiding and breaking the law with equal rigour. This is, in my understanding, a substantive legal problem. I would like to emphasise once again that this draft does not seek to create a new comprehensive regulation. The state simply wants to reduce the risk that the parties concerned will, through legal arguments, hinder the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U68	Thank you. Next question, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U69	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! The Liquid Fuel Act has two guarantee rates: EUR 100000 and EUR million. If there is now a reduction in the guarantee requirement of EUR million, why is it not advisable to change the guarantee of EUR 100000?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U70	Thank you for your question. The EUR 1 million guarantee requirement is a minimum requirement, which can be increased and reduced by the Tax and Customs Board, but only from 1 January 2013 to EUR 1100000, which applies to retailers or consumer sellers, can, in justified cases, be reduced by the Tax and Customs Board. This is the regulation of the current law, and today's draft wants to change the order so that guarantees for persons covered by 1 million guarantees can also be reduced by the Tax and Customs Board if there are grounds for doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U71	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U72	Thank you, Madam President. [[Strong buzz.]] I've got a problem with the microphone. You'll be distracted by the buzzing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U73	We're taking a break for technical reasons. I'm declaring recess five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U74	Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U75	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, As far as I am aware of this draft, an in-depth opinion was received from the Law Office, Varul AS, and it also states that fuel sellers have not had enough time to restructure their activities in the light of the new regulation. Given that the government only raised VAT on a few weeks' notice, the question arises: is this not where the dog was buried, that the deadline for the entry into force of the law was too short?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U76	No, it's not. The letter from the Attorneys-at-Law Office Varul AS, mentioned by you, is entitled 'Action Plan for challenging the Water Fuel Act and the Amending Act on VAT'. This letter is not aimed at influencing the draft we are dealing with today, but it promotes the possibility for potential clients of a law firm to challenge the current law from different positions and initiate constitutional compliance monitoring procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U77	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U78	Thank you, Mr President. As a new member of the Riigikogu, I cannot believe that I see such cynicism here that two months later the parties who vehemently defended the law in force will change it. The question is this. Good waitress, you say that the purpose of the law is still being pursued, as the Tax and Customs Board decides specifically in any case. However, since these amounts are so large, the risk of corruption will certainly increase considerably. Do you agree that the Riigikogu should not adopt laws that increase the motivation of entrepreneurs to offer bribery and the motivation of officials to adopt it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U79	Thank you for your question. In fact, the substance of the law does not change with this first-reading draft today. The provision making it impossible to request, in justified cases, a reduction in the amount of the security shall be amended. As far as your question of the threat of corruption is concerned, I believe that we have no reason to mistrust the competent authority of the Estonian state, which is under the law obliged to verify compliance with tax laws. I believe that we can trust the Tax and Customs Board and believe that the officials of the Tax and Customs Board are complying with the law and working in the interests of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U80	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As I mentioned here, all law-abiding individuals are against this bill in the form of an oil company. Why it is being pushed through, however, does not really make sense. But my second question relates to the position of the Government of the Republic. In fact, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there was no position of the Government of the Republic on this draft. Can you read it today? If it exists, what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U81	I don't have a text explaining the government's position here, but as far as I know, the government supports the bill. I do not agree with the statement that we are trying to force the bill through here, as you have expressed. I believe that the Riigikogu Hall is not the best place to discuss complex legal issues in depth. This is indeed a draft which does not have political content. It has technical or, let's say, legal and technical content and, in my opinion, the only aim of the draft is to reduce the risk from the state's point of view that legal arguments prevent the implementation of the law. I think it makes sense to pre-empt the known legal risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U82	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U83	Good waitress! Your answer to Mr Stranger's question did give the impression that you do not fully understand the purpose of the law yourself. The question was how the Tax and Customs Board could decide whether or not the company should be exempted. The problem is, as a rule, that fraudulent companies make a single transaction. The tax office does not know them from the past, they are unknown to the agency as a company, and then they will be bankrupt by the time the deadline for payment of VAT arrives. If Aunt Mari establishes Mari OÜ and makes one transaction, how can the Tax and Customs Board decide whether or not Mari OÜ will be bankrupt by the 20th day of next month?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U84	I assume you've studied the liquid fuel law thoroughly enough. Actually, we're not talking about the cases of a shell company and a one-time firm. According to the law, the Tax and Customs Board can only reduce the guarantee if the company has three years of experience in handling fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U85	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your presentation, you introduced a few terms, namely the procedure for mitigating legal risk and, second, the procedure for monitoring non-constitutional behaviour. Am I right to understand that the purpose of the initiators of the draft is to mitigate the legal risk so that there is no situation that a legal vacuum could arise under the procedure for the monitoring of non-constitutional status, where the law that actually entered into force and applied in February would not be implemented on the basis of a court order and the guarantee system would not actually be operational? And if so, does this mean that those political parties or members of the Riigikogu who oppose it really want a situation where the guarantee system does not apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U87	You haven't quite got it right. The initiative of this bill actually came from the attorneys of the Ministry of Finance. The aim of the draft is certainly not to prevent the implementation of the guarantee regulation. On the contrary, the aim of the draft is one and clear: to ensure that the guarantee institution, the guarantee regulation, is implemented. The draft is aimed at resolving the legal problem. In the opinion of lawyers, it is not justified that the law treats both those who obey the law and those who break the law with the same degree of rigour. I have referred here to a possible contradiction with the Constitution and I emphasise once again the importance of the draft in the sense that changing the current disproportionateness or reducing the excessive burden on the state will mitigate the risk that the implementation of the law could be prevented. The aim of the law is to clean up the fuel market and reduce the risk of tax fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U88	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U89	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I have only been a member of the Riigikogu for a month, and that is probably why I sincerely believe that we will receive our salary in order to make the people's lives better. Of course, the people may be thrilled to let these fuel dealers now pay their guarantees, but in fact, the people would like to get cheaper fuel. My question is: how will the draft you are presenting lower the price of fuel, with what mechanism, so that the people can get both fuel and related goods at a lower cost, and rightly say that yes, this is the kind of Estonia we really wanted?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U90	Honourable questioner! In my opinion, it is in the interests of the country that there should be no cheaper fuel for the market by value added tax or excise duty. And it is certainly not in the interest of most of the operators on the market to have cheaper fuel on the Estonian market by VAT and excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U91	Thank you. Question two, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U92	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Only in recent history do we know how it ended when the Earth Administration had an enormous margin of discretion. Hence my question: if we give discretion to the Tax and Customs Board now, without really knowing the limits within which the Tax and Customs Board makes its decisions, do you not see the risk of another increase in the risk of corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You will also see how many witty questions there are and how many mixed answers there are. Lately, we seem to be in the fashion of correcting all sorts of mistakes, as an example of the law of traffic. Is it not a sign that the drafts should be further processed and analysed in depth rather than based on the opinion that if there is a government bill, everything is perfect and fine?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U94	Thank you. Please, good colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have such a question for you as the initiator's representative. During the drafting of the draft, did you also discuss the following issue: when it comes to smaller filling stations, the minimum guarantee for a fuel operator is EUR 100000. When preparing this draft, did you consider the possibility of reducing the guarantee for those with small filling stations? After all, they actually have a gas station, and it can also be considered a guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U96	I think that these discussions remained within the time and framework of this law, which was adopted on 22 February. I do not believe that there is a need to reopen the debate on whether a guarantee of EUR 100000 for filling stations is sufficient or not. Once again: this law is already being implemented and, as I said, the Tax and Customs Board has promised to give an overview at the beginning of June of how the new regulation has worked in practice. I wouldn't get ahead of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U97	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have this question: do the objectives of the initiators coincide with those of the oil company in terms of the organisation of the fuel market, or are these objectives different? Is the aim to liquidate fraud companies from the market, or is there some other purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U99	I think, Honourable Asker, that our goals in the essentials coincide. In essence, our objectives are the same as those of the Estonian Oil Association. Our common concern is how to clean up the fuel market, how to discourage illegal operators and how to reduce the risk of tax fraud. Here our interests are completely overlapping.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U100	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U101	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It would take a moment to get emotionally back to the time when you and I were the second on the other side of the front line. You were the headmaster of the IRS and I was the fuel dealer. You should remember how hard the market is. Now you come up with a bill stating that it is possible to reduce the deposit if certain conditions are met. As a practitioner and a person with memory, I ask: where are these certain conditions fixed and who decides to meet these certain conditions? In fact, there is indeed a time bomb programmed here, all the more so since the oil company has not so far requested that these security rates be reduced in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U102	Honourable questioner, since we were opposites, there has been a lot of water flowing into the sea. The Code has now evolved and the current law states in sufficient detail the conditions under which the Tax and Customs Board can reduce the guarantee. A person should have an impeccable professional reputation, at least three years of practical experience in the handling of fuel, a person or a member of his/her management control body must not have committed any infringement of tax laws and customs rules, and persons responsible for those companies must not be subject to criminal proceedings for breaches of tax laws, customs regulations or the Law on liquid fuel. And, of course, a person must not have a tax debt, even a deferred tax debt. I believe that these rules will be made more precise within the Tax and Customs Board. The Tax and Customs Board has audit rules and rules on all kinds of checks. But certainly, due to the regulation of the law, the internal rules of the tax administration also need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U103	Thank you. Question two, please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U104	Thank you. Dear waitress, During the IX Riigikogu there was an interesting case in this Chamber. Namely, during the foreign policy debate, the foreign minister, Mr Ilves, answered questions from members of the Riigikogu and replied in such a way that half an hour after the beginning of this debate Tõnu Kuba, a member of the Riigikogu at the time, raised his hand and asked the Speaker to take measures to ensure that the person still answers the questions that were asked to him, not to infinity speak of the same subject that was more interesting to him. I wanted to ask you something else as a second question, but right now I'm forced to repeat my first question. You refer in your explanatory memorandum to § 31 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. There are three sentences. Specifically, which of the three sentences contradicts the current situation? In fact, don't talk about the word 'proportionality', it's not there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U105	Honourable questioner! This is a very relevant issue and a matter of attention. It is probably possible to improve the situation in this Riigikogu, but I believe that the Committee on Monetary Affairs was able to discuss this draft quite thoroughly and that this debate is not yet over. It is possible that this draft needs more detailed legal analysis, and we will certainly do so in full seriousness in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U106	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U107	Your comparison with land swaps is, in my opinion, a little arbitrary. These are completely different regulations, different cases. In fact, the Tax and Customs Board has the competence and competence to detect taxpayers' tax offences, to verify compliance with tax laws, and to identify the circumstances that give rise to a change in the guarantee. The issue is not that the Tax Administration has not dealt with such matters for years, and these officials have competence and competence. Rather, the problem is that the state is losing large amounts of money, not only in the form of VAT and excise duties, but also in the form of envelope wages, for example. And indeed, the regulation that has been in place so far, which imposed only minimum capital requirements and liability insurance, was obviously not sufficient. So this regulation had to be complemented by the introduction of a guarantee mechanism. In the end, I am convinced that this is a pretty important step in order to clean up the fuel market and reduce the number of fraud. The tightening of the rules forces criminal society to seek service elsewhere or from outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U108	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U109	Honourable questioner! I think that every year the situation in our authorities will be better than it was a year ago or earlier in the past. I was rather referring to the fact that comparison with land swaps may not be quite appropriate. It seemed a little arbitrary to me. These are different regulations. I believe I can confirm from this chair that officials in our country's offices and other institutions are doing their job fairly and that the risk of corruption is reduced to a minimum. At least I hope so. But of course, 100% is not in any country with such a risk grounded. At the same time, the country is developing further and the risk of corruption in the Estonian state institutions is certainly not what it was at the beginning of the 90s.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U110	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U111	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The Liquid Fuel Act, which has now been drafted to improve, was adopted on 1 April and, as you yourself said, its content is to a large extent a restriction on the freedom to conduct a business. In doing so, freedom to conduct a business is restricted, not in terms of limitation, but rather in terms of regulation. This is generally done in all areas of business, and now this draft is about proportionality and moderation. In the meantime, has anything changed in the approach to restricting or regulating business freedom in our coalition parties, that there will now be such fundamental changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U112	The Liquid Fuel Act entered into force on 1 April this year, but it was adopted here in the Riigikogu on 22 February. It certainly cannot be said that the idea of restricting the rights and freedom of individuals, businesses has changed radically. This is a specific restriction, which should not be provided for by such rigour. It can easily be less burdensome and, at the same time, meet the objectives set just as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U113	Thank you. Please, Rainer Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U114	Good waitress! You have repeatedly claimed that you have a common concern with the oil company, but their letter states that you should not do so. This issue has been dealt with here for so long that I was already interested in who these active members are. I will read it to all of you so that you know it, and it will be in history. They are Alexela Oil, Eesti Statoil, Intertek Eurolab, Jetoil, Lukoil Estonia, Neste Estonia, Oiling, Reval Oil, Saare Fuel, SGS Estonia, Tartu Terminal AS, Saybolt AS and Mazeikiri Oil. Somehow I think these companies will pay their taxes to the state in a nice and timely manner. Don't you think these companies should be recognized or even rewarded, but not let them suffer unfair competition? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U115	I think that the companies that are on this list and are linked by the oil association really need to be recognised. These are solid, well-known international companies. As I have confirmed, it is, to a significant extent, our common interest that the fuel market should be organised, that the conditions under which honest entrepreneurs can operate can be managed successfully and that the risk of tax fraud should as far as possible be grounded. Our interests really do overlap to a significant extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U116	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U117	Thank you. Today's flood of questions from the opposition amazes me. It seems to me that, for some reason, there is a desperation against market organisation, equal treatment of market participants and avoidance of tax evasion. Do you understand what the reason is?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U118	Honourable questioner! I admit that it is difficult to deal with legal issues and that the scope for implementing tax laws is not very easy. In the end, however, I believe that the joint aim of the Riigikogu is to improve the situation on the fuel market, and I also believe that this bill will contribute to the orderly functioning of the fuel market and the reduction of fraud. I am also patiently trying to explain in this Chamber how to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U119	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U120	Thank you. Good waitress! Unlike the previous questioner, I am not raising my question with feelings, but with what has been said in this Chamber. However, it has been said in this Chamber that the initiative of today's bill came from the attorneys of the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the Reform Party and the Isamaa and Res Publica Association have submitted a draft. Why didn't the Ministry of Finance itself come up with the initiative of this bill when it came from that house? And why has the government not, in this case, given its position on the question of amending this law? That is what you have said in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U121	Honourable questioner! Indeed, we discussed the situation and the implementation of the current law with the attorneys of the Ministry of Finance. The reasons of the Ministry's lawyers were clear and understandable to the initiators of the draft law, and that is how the draft law was prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U122	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U123	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! After all, financial guarantees amounting to millions of dollars are actually a very good product for banks. Were there any discussions or questions on this issue in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U124	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, this law is a sad experience. Just before the elections, this law was rushed to please voters, it is not a good country to have a billion kroons of taxes set aside. And now that the election is over, they're about to come up with an amendment to this law. Isn't there a risk that some interest groups have used their advantages in the meantime and put pressure on this law to be amended?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U125	There's no such danger. The substance of the law does not change. After all, the regulation of guarantees exists; it is already implemented in practice. The Act entered into force on 1 April. In this sense, I do not agree with your approach. However, the interest of the initiators of the amendment of the law is only that the law should function as intended.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U126	Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U127	Good waitress! You said earlier that it is not appropriate to ask such complex legal questions in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. My question is: where should I ask them? Where's the back room of the IRL and Reform Party, where could we come to ask our questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U128	Honourable questioner! In the Chamber of Riigikogu, of course, all questions may be discussed, but indeed, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we also had lawyers from the Ministry of Finance and your colleagues from your party, who participated in this meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will certainly share the information they heard from lawyers, also with the whole group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U129	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! This law was certainly necessary and a change was also necessary. But you yourself said that the Tax and Customs Board will only conclude at the beginning of June how this law has worked. What's the rush? Why do we have to adopt this change now? Why don't you tell me why we're rushing if we haven't figured out how the law works yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U131	The Liquid Fuel Act states one date, namely 31 May of this year. By that date, the authorisations previously in force must be re-registered by the parties. This is a nuance to consider. It would be more appropriate to resolve legal problems before that date.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U132	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U133	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It has been the practice in the Riigikogu that when a draft law is initiated, there must also be an analysis of the effects. There is no impact analysis in today's draft. You told us that the Tax and Customs Board would be in charge. And now that there are 370 companies in the register, about half of them will have to be checked in the future. We all know that for as long as the provisions are clear and there are certain guarantees. But now there are possibilities that on the basis of something, you yourself could not mention, on the basis of which, you said that this is an undefined legal term, the tax administration must start making prudent decisions. Is and, if so, to what extent has the financing of the tax administration increased in relation to the guarantees provided by the Liquid Fuel Act and the possibility of reducing them? In fact, it is a question of the budgetary implications of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U134	Honourable questioner! According to the initiators of the draft act, the financing of the tax administration will not be increased. These tasks must be carried out by the Tax and Customs Board using the available resources within the Office. If we are imagining these decisions, there are many times less companies selling from excise warehouses than those selling fuel already released for consumption. Therefore, these decisions cannot be very numerous. I do agree that these are quite large sums of money, and these decisions must be very prudent. This certainly requires the Tax and Customs Board to deepen very thoroughly in order to find out all these factors that would lead to a reduction in the guarantee. This requires work and commitment, but the initiators believe that the tax administration will be able to carry out these tasks within the limits of the resources allocated to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U135	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U136	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We know that the Tax and Customs Board will come up with an analysis of this issue in June. The members of the oil company are not particularly enthusiastic about the amendment to this law. No one can tell me where this idea has come from and why it needs to be passed today. As a member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, can you promise me that you will make it clear who specifically initiated this amendment and whose interests it serves? A lot of the mole who has to live by this law doesn't want to cross the road, now do the Timurians come and take them across the road by force?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U137	Honourable questioner, I can answer you right now. The initiative of the draft law came from lawyers who received a salary from the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U138	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U139	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I also want a very specific answer to my question. Do you think that this discretion, which is not defined by law, given to the Tax and Customs Board, will increase the risk of corruption or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U140	Honourable questioner! I would ask back, or I would reply in such a way as to ask whether or not the introduction of a guarantee mechanism has reduced the risk of corruption. Of course, this is an additional regulation; the Tax and Customs Board must make the relevant decisions. But I don't think it's a whole new thing here. Any kind of check, whether or not the easiest revision requires a decision on the subject of a charge, is not a new fiction. For years, the Tax and Customs Board has had to make a decision on the matter and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U141	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is probably not good practice that the law that came into force on 1 April should already be amended with a new draft. But my question concerns the guarantee mechanism. The Commission must have discussed the most serious impact of this change on the Estonian region by analysing fuel sellers in the economic register. North, South or any other region of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U143	Business activities are, of course, largely concentrated in Tallinn and the whole of Harjumaa. And where there are the largest volumes of transactions, there is also the highest risk. When we are talking about goods subject to excise duty, risk sensitive areas are certainly border municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U144	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U145	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The comment is so much that it is a draft prepared by the finance minister's lawyers and it is insane. You agree, too, that it still needs to be repaired. Of course the questions are starting to happen again. I would have liked to ask what this change would give the ordinary citizen. But just so you can answer me 'yes' or 'no', I ask you this: does this legislative amendment increase the price of fuel or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U146	It's very difficult to answer yes or no. We have been discussing this bill for a long time here today. I assure you that the aim of this draft is certainly not to increase the price of fuel. Ultimately, it must contribute to the implementation of the Liquid Fuel Act in conjunction with the Tax Administration Act and the VAT and excise legislation. After all, we are working to achieve the objective of reducing VAT or excise duty on the market to cheaper fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U147	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U148	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! First of all, I want to thank you and congratulate you for really trying to answer the questions that are asked in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. This is not such a common phenomenon, especially in the case of drafts which have the effect of perceiving the background work of certain lobby groups so that they enter into force as a law. But my question comes from your answer to Andres Anvelt's question. I could read from that answer that if an example was given of the threat of corruption in the Land Administration, then the tax administration, by nature, would be free of such danger. Did I misunderstand, or do you mean that officials working in the IRS are by nature less prone to corruption, or more honest and ethical than people working in the Land Office, or what exactly did you mean by your answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U149	In my opinion, I am not exaggerating when I say that the draft law we are debating today deals with a legal nuance. As a whole, hedging this legal risk will certainly facilitate or improve the achievement of the objectives of the Liquid Fuel Act. I am thinking in particular of the provisions of the law aimed at organising the fuel market and reducing the possibilities for tax fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U150	The Liquid Fuel Act limits the freedom to conduct a business. We have no argument about that. Yes, indeed, the right to engage in entrepreneurship as defined in § 31 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia is not an absolute right. The second sentence of the same section allows the legislator to lay down the conditions and procedures for the exercise of the right to conduct a business. It's a fundamental right with the reservation of the law. Now, according to § 11 of the Constitution, rights and freedoms may be restricted only in accordance with the Constitution. These restrictions must be necessary in a democratic society and must not distort the nature of the rights and freedoms that are restricted. The Liquid Fuel Act aims to remove illegal fuel operators from the market. The aim is not to burden persons whose activities are legitimate. With regard to the specificity of the reduction of the guarantee, there is no need in line with the objectives of the Liquid Fuel Act and the impossibility of reducing the amount of the guarantee applicable to sellers of fuels not yet admitted to consumption before 2013 places an excessive burden on sellers who are legally active and for whom there is no need to apply the guarantee or where there is a possibility to reduce the guarantee. I don't know if I answered your question thoroughly enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U151	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U152	Thank you. Dear waitress, I respect you very much, but it seems to me that you are deliberately misleading the public here today. And specifically, if there was a question from this hall whether you, the changers of the law and the initiators of the bill are the same as the Estonian Oil Association, you said that they are similar. I will read a paragraph of the letter from the Estonian Oil Association sent to the Monetary Commission, and this paragraph is as follows: 'It is important to maintain the minimum guarantee required by law and to exclude the possibility of reducing it for the transitional period until 2013. ' Before you spoke here that the Tax and Customs Board is currently not entitled to reduce the level of security and that the Office treats those who violate the law and those who obey the law equally. Why are you twisting arguments, and why are you so intently defending this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U153	Thank you for your question. In fact, when I replied here, I also said that, in the opinion of the oil company, the regulation of the draft initiated by the Reform Party and the IRL is valid, i.e. the liquid fuel law adopted on 22 February, but we do not think it is contrary. In fact, the draft under discussion is still aimed at reducing the risk of a country in a situation where lawyers consider that there is a legal problem. And that's the legal problem I was talking about. However, I do believe that the oil company, like us, is concerned about the situation on the fuel market and that, like our aim, the oil company is to achieve a situation where there are only law-abiding operators on the market and traders who respect the principles of fair competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U154	Thank you. Please, Olga Soldier, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U155	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! One of the prerequisites for the reduction of the guarantee is the previous good tax history. How would you define it? What does "a proper tax history" mean? What exactly does that mean? Isn't this just as vague as'reasoned profit', which has now created a problem around Tallinn Water, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U156	I think you mean 'unpretentious professional reputation', that's the text of the law. I agree that this is a concept that is rather difficult to define exhaustively. I believe that commercial reputation includes the assessments made by the national authorities, as well as the assessments made by trading partners and by credit institutions, of a person who has a contractual relationship with banks. It is an undefined legal term, as they say, but there are certainly ways to determine a person's business reputation. But just because it's an undefined legal term, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U157	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U158	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The oil company has been drawing attention to these problems for several years and, fortunately, the previous composition passed the law to eliminate the grey zones and clean up the market. As far as I know, this bill you are defending is not supported by the oil company. The Oil Association is currently concentrating around 80% of the companies concerned. I still don't understand whose interests this bill protects. You're referring to some kind of equality, some kind of legal problem, but last year in the state budget, if this law didn't exist, there was about a billion kroons of damage due to income. Will this equality or the disappearance of this legal problem outweigh the potential damage that the country may suffer if we make this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U159	I think, honourable questioner, that it is appropriate to mitigate legal risks in the current law. This is appropriate and once again: in my opinion, as well as in the opinion of the initiators of the draft law, I do not think that I am exaggerating when I say that the clarification of the legal nuance does not in any way interfere with the functioning of the law and the regulation of the guarantees provided by law. The guarantee, as a mechanism to ensure the collection of taxes, will be realised exactly as in the current law. However, the risk of possible legal disputes has been reduced when viewed by the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U160	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U161	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I have a short question. Can you tell me if the bill you have proposed solves issues related to the shadow trade in liquid fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U162	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U163	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Your answers are getting longer and hard to understand. But it isn't easy for you to reply to a hundred members of the Riigikogu to ask more than one member of the Riigikogu to answer. I want to help you, and I am asking a very short and very specific question to which I would like a specific answer: will the draft you are proposing raise or lower the price of fuel for the final consumer?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U164	The draft proposed by the initiators contributes to the disappearance from the market of non-taxed fuel and non-taxed fuel, so that conditions for operators on the fuel market become equal and honest makers can operate on the Estonian market. This draft certainly contributes to achieving this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U165	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U166	Honourable questioner! Indeed, the provision of a guarantee requires certain costs to be incurred by undertakings. If it is a bank guarantee, of course it must also be paid to the bank. I have also said here many times today that, indeed, a country has the right under the Constitution to restrict and regulate entrepreneurship, but these restrictions must not be excessive, disproportionate and contrary to the stated objective. Legal persons, if you support this draft, will have the opportunity to reduce the collateral and thus also to save expenditure, including the commission for issuing bank guarantees to the bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U167	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U168	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have realised that the risk of fraud arises at the very first end of this chain when we are talking about VAT fraud. So these risks are precisely in the change that the current coalition is trying to push through. The oil union and 80% of the market are against it. Mr Vakra has just read up companies who do not support this change. It is also opposed by the Tax Administration. I've heard that this chain reaction started with Varul's law firm, where a memo was issued to the Ministry. Perhaps you can call me those fuel companies that are part of the 20% that support this initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U169	You're not exactly informed. I am referring here to 28 April Äripäev, in which the Tax and Customs Board in Kaido Lemendendi, Head of the Control Department, supports the amendment of the Liquid Fuel Act. He says that, of course, if any part of the law currently in force is contrary to the Constitution, it must be amended. According to Lemendi, the companies to which the proposed amendment extends are not very large, apart from the large-scale fraud companies. There's no drama in running an update from the head of the control department. However, as regards your view that the risk of fraud is, above all, at the beginning of the chain where fuel leaves the fuel excise warehouse on the market, there are indeed dozens of times greater amounts than maybe in the turnover of a small gas station or a gas station. And where there are larger sums involved, lawbreakers are also more likely to win and the risk of fraud is greater. But the risk in the country as a whole is certainly also in the broader sense of the shadow economy, cash flow and envelope wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U170	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U171	Madam President! My dear colleagues! At first, with the understanding of this bill, we all have an emotional level, like a famous widow who can't even say what she wants more, cake or herring. We should use more logic. Although, the evil languages say that what is spoken in the Chamber of Riigikogu is often not logical. But in fact, even monkeys use logic in zoos (forest specialists know that other animals do too). The monkey knows that when fun gets started in the next cage, it means that in a few minutes someone will come in and bring him an apple or a banana. He knows how to relate phenomena and events. So we're trying to link things up! The previous draft law on liquid fuel was launched on 13 December last year. Considering that after that it was Christmas and New Year's Eve, it reached the hall at quite fantastic speed. At first reading, the rapporteur said that the aim of this law was to correct the unacceptable situation in the fuel market that developed over the last few years. He also said that representatives of fuel companies have proposed that the guarantee amount to EUR 1 million. Excellent, logical! At second reading, this proposal was adopted and, in February, 22 February, it all became a law. No one objected, because all of us want to fight tax fraud, corruption and so on. Especially before the election. It's only been two months. What's changed now? Have tax frauds come group-by-group to turn themselves in to the Tax and Customs Board and pay back the money they've been cheated on to the state? No, it's not. The situation is the same. Has the economic situation changed? No, it's not. It's gotten worse. In the petrol market, it has become worse in the diesel market because of the events that are currently taking place in North Africa. Maybe the oil company's changed their position. I would remind you that these positions led to the adoption of this law during the previous term. They have not changed their views. I have a letter from the oil company, the last paragraph of which is as follows: 'The company's view is that the measure provided for in the current ETA is moderate and effectively ensures the fundamental objective of the amendment, which is to reduce tax fraud related to the sale of fuel. The amendment of the ETA in the manner proposed by the 24 SE would jeopardise the essential public interest. " Why doesn't anyone talk about it? That's the oil company's position. We are told that there was a contradiction with the Constitution. I'm not gonna waste your time reading the text. However, § 31 does not have a word of it, not a single sentence applies to the proposed amendment of the law. It's the same with § 11. I would remind you that the right to decide whether or not the law complies with the Constitution belongs to the Chancellor of Justice belongs to the Supreme Court; it is not the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If this is such a deeply constitutional question, why is it being dealt with by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, not by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? However, I do not want to believe that this law will be amended without any convincing reason. There's gotta be some logic. The Estonian people sent us here in the sincere belief that we are smarter than the monkeys in the zoo and are searching for logic in every matter. I think the reasons why this law needs to be amended are 10,000, maybe 20000, maybe 100,000, maybe even 200,000 beautiful, colorful reasons. Only we will never know these reasons, because the system of funding parties is so opaque that it is not possible to actually clarify where the money that political parties pay for their debts comes from. I remember a story that happened in the IX Riigikogu. That's the second time I've remembered that. Twice at the time, I proposed a bill to limit the possibility of receiving non-ferrous metals, and twice it failed. The third time, however, the proposal went through because the Reform Party supported it. I went to a member of the familiar Reform Party and asked what happened, why they voted in favour the third time. He said, 'You know we have this guy in the group. Two kilometers of cable was stolen from his cabin. " That was the reason! I mean, we have a choice between two options, why they want to restrict this law: whether it comes from the thousands of colorful reasons I was talking about, or whether someone has a special need to save someone's business, for example. It was a brief introduction, so now I'm going to the bottom of the line. Since I am here as a representative of a group, I am honoured to read you this text: 'The Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes not to stop reading the first 24 readings of the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U172	Honourable waitress! I will certainly join you in the compliment of my colleague, Mr Saare, that you are at least trying to answer the very substantive questions of the opposition. Certainly, Members of the coalition have the opportunity to ask their ministers in another room, too, for matters of interest, and certainly the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have the opportunity to ask their questions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. For the rest of us, it's an opportunity in this room today. My question to you comes from the question of my colleague, Paul-Eerik Rummo. He indicated that the opposition's decision to exercise its right under the law to ask questions in this Chamber was motivated by some desire to undermine the functioning of laws and the functioning of the state in Estonia. Do you share my view that such an interpretation, the attribution of such black motives to the opposition, is objectionable?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U173	I would first like to thank the questioners for their substantive and constructive questions. I also tried to respond meaningfully to them. Members of the Riigikogu have taken an oath, and I believe that we are working here in the interests of the Estonian state, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U174	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Mr. Aivar Sõerd, for your endurance. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A representative of the initiators of the draft act answered questions here for over an hour, and something similar happened in the Commission. My task is to give an overview of what happened in the Commission, and I will try to pass it on to you. The Commission met on 3 May 2011 to discuss the initiation of this draft. As a member of the Reform Party Group, Aivar Sõerd represented the initiators of the draft in the committee. There was a constructive debate. It took almost as long as now in this Chamber, an hour and a half to answer the questions, the difference was only that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board also attended the meeting. Aivar Sõerd gave a very comprehensive overview of the purpose and meaning of the draft. The purpose of the draft is to remove the exceptions to the reduction of the security applied to fuel sellers due to the need to achieve proportionality of the regulation. I will give a brief overview of the issues that were discussed in the Commission. I can tell you in advance that almost all the questions that were asked in this Chamber today were also discussed, to a greater or lesser extent, in the Commission. These questions were as follows: One issue was the problem of equal treatment, i.e. that a reduction in both EUR 100000 and EUR 1 million should be treated on an equal footing. The Commission's reply was that this draft is not so much a question of equal treatment, but rather of whether this restriction is moderate. The representatives of both the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance stated that equal treatment and proportionality are different things. The purpose of the guarantee is to contain offenders. Like in the Chamber, the Commission raised questions about the number of fuel sellers affected by this change. This has been discussed here today, but I repeat: 371 persons have been registered in the register of economic activities, 161 persons who wished to continue to sell fuel had submitted their application at that time and ten of them applied for a guarantee of EUR 1 million. In the committee, the topic was at all the reasons for the exceptions to the reduction of the guarantee applied to fuel sellers, which were also discussed in the case of the draft procedure during the previous Riigikogu. Initially, no reduction was envisaged at all. This draft was supplemented during the course of the procedure in February this year on the basis of proposals from different parties. The purpose of the non-reduction of the EUR million guarantee was, at that time, primarily to restructure the market. On this basis, the business cycle would have been as narrow as possible during a year and a half to allow fuel to be consumed. This is considered the most risky place and the biggest fraud can come from this segment. These were the criteria for the discretion of the Tax and Customs Board, which has also been discussed in this Chamber today. They should be developed on the basis of a single mechanism to prevent different treatment of companies with the same background and characteristics. In general terms, the criteria are: sound business reputation and very clear objective indicators, i.e. three years' experience in fuel management, non-compliance with laws (tax laws, liquid fuel law) and customs rules, as well as the absence of tax debts, including deferred tax debts. These are the criteria for the Tax and Customs Board to start reducing the guarantees. For information, the provision of guarantees has been laid down in various areas since 1995. The law lays down general rules on how and when the security is to be provided and has a lower level of detail. In the Commission, the concept of fuel handling was at issue as such, which is what it is understood at all. According to the Liquid Fuel Act, this definition includes import, export, sale and provision of savings services. The Commission was also discussing possible so-called schemes for three-year-experienced fuel companies and the possible emergence of a so-called secondary market. The representatives of the Tax and Customs Board stated that the number of fuel companies operating in this area has already fallen very clearly on the basis of a law adopted in February. This is where it comes out, who has a real desire to continue this business and who has other desires. Monitoring is currently improving clearly and the secondary market, as such, is in the view of the Tax and Customs Board, is disappearing. They didn't see such a risk in it. Members of the Commission were also interested in what was not discussed in this Chamber today. In particular, several retailers have complained that they have already submitted applications to the Tax and Customs Board under the new regulation, but so far there has been no reply (at least not by the time the Commission meeting took place) as to whether their request had been granted. This complaint has been mainly heard by retailers who are the guarantors of this EUR 100000 guarantee. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board has not yet answered that they are an impeccable renomee, do not have a tax debt, etc. A representative of the Tax and Customs Board said that they will handle this and that everyone who has applied will be contacted. Even if, by the time the Commission meeting was held, no contact had been made, it may be expected that by now, when I am speaking to you in this Chamber, the Tax and Customs Board has already been in contact with all of them. It was also a question of whether the Tax and Customs Board had already imposed any sanctions under this law, which was adopted in February. A representative of the Tax and Customs Board said that sanctions have not yet been imposed on the basis of this law, but that authorisations have been withdrawn from operators previously active in this field and that the businesses have been discontinued, but not as a result of the last amendment that was adopted in February, as it is still in operation. The guarantees were also in question. The question was asked about the possibility of payment of the amount of the security and it was stated that the deposit as such was relatively expensive, because it was a real money lock-down. This led to an interesting nuance, which the representatives of the Tax and Customs Board forwarded to us. They said that in such a guarantee system (as I mentioned earlier, it is used in a number of other areas, such as the sale of alcohol) companies do not use deposits but rather bank guarantees, and in this case banks will take some additional roles in the tax administration. What do I mean by that? Banks, issuing guarantees, are looking into the client's background before they want to apply the guarantee in reality. They examine customers and their background and in fact they carry out additional checks on these companies. It gives more certainty. The appeals were also reviewed. The address was from the Estonian Oil Association and there were other opinions, including from one law firm. There were conflicting opinions. The Commission used them as background information. If we stop now, it must be said that the Commission attaches importance to the principle of proportionality ( § 31 in conjunction with § 11 of the Constitution) and further legal analysis has, over time, made it necessary to amend the Law on liquid fuel. In the Commission's view, the urgent procedure for this draft is important because the register of economic activities is to be filled in by persons who have lodged a guarantee by 31 May 2011 at the latest. In fact, the change makes the situation more favourable, or it is unlikely that anyone will complain directly about it. At the same time, the organisation of the market remains a very clear objective. The fuel market should be in order by the end of this year, with the representatives of the Tax and Customs Board very clear identification, also taking into account this amendment. Tax fraud should decrease and tax revenue should improve. When the decision was taken, the Commission had been given such decisions: to place the draft on the agenda on 10 May, today and to close the first reading (by 7 Commission members, 2 against, no abstentions) and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 15 May (by 6 Commission members, 3 against and 1 abstention). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U176	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U177	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! From your report, as well as from Mr Sõerdi's report, there is no government position on the draft. At the same time, the government is expected to support the bill. What is the basis for this assumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U178	Thank you. I will answer you in substance, but before I do, my report did not give rise to the question of whether or not there was a position. It was your interpretation. But you're right, there's no government position yet. This issue was also at issue in the Commission. At the Commission's desk were the officials of the Ministry of Finance who clearly identified the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. We had a separate discussion with the Minister for Finance who very clearly expressed his support for this draft and who also mentioned that, if I am not mistaken, it should be on the agenda in the day after tomorrow's government meeting. I can't tell you for sure, but that's the kind of information I have right now. I think that when we come to the hall for second reading with this bill, we will also have the position of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U179	Thank you. Since every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask up to two questions during the discussion of this question, I cannot, unfortunately, give you the floor, Tarmo Tamm. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U180	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In your explanations, you have said that you do not see the danger of closing the filling stations. However, it has been heard that a guarantee requirement forces the owners of small-scale filling stations to close doors. Please explain why you do not see this danger!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U181	Good questioner! I think it is necessary to take account of the situation that is. The current situation is that when we talk about discretion, the Tax and Customs Board has the right to reduce, but also to increase, guarantees in very many areas. I do not think that if we give this institution the opportunity to take a decision on consideration a year and a half earlier so that we can increase or reduce the risks. I don't think anything's gonna change here. However, I do believe that if this law is adopted, there will be a situation that the draft adopted as a law in February, which has now entered into force and been implemented, will continue to live, i.e. we will lose the risk of a legal problem. You see, this is very important, because if this risk remains and there are disputes, then it can really happen that the system of guarantees does not apply. I believe that there is no one in this Chamber who would like the system adopted in February not to apply. We definitely want this to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U182	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U183	It is true that one piece of the law can also be revoked. We in the Commission concluded that the principle of equal treatment has not been violated, but something is disproportionate. It now appears that it is disproportionate that the exercise of discretion on sales from excise warehouses takes effect from 1 January 2013. How can one date be disproportionate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U184	Thank you. You're on the right track, Mr. Nestor. The principle of proportionality is linked here to the fact that, when the law adopted in February is implemented, there is a situation that honest fuel sellers, who have been active on the market for three years and who have no problems, are also required to have guarantees. There is a contradiction between §31 and §11 of the Constitution. § 31 of the Constitution states that entrepreneurship can be carried out, and § 11 states that restrictions must be proportionate and necessary. The question arises as to whether the State should require such security from those fuel sellers who have been correct. Both lawyers and the initiators of the bill have found that this should not be demanded. Here is the point of risk in the opinion of the initiators of the draft: it is feared that the whole bill could be protested, and in this case, let us say, the whole bill may remain in a vacuum.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U185	Thank you. Eiki Nestor, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U186	In constitutional terms, the date in tax law may be wrong. For example, when the legislator adopts the law, but the taxpayer only finds out later that he had to pay more tax. This is definitely against the Constitution. The date may be right or wrong. I ask again: how can one date be disproportionate?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U187	Thank you. I'll tell you one more time. I don't know if I don't understand your question or if you don't understand my answer. We're not talking about the date here. We are talking about a situation where the guarantee applies and the state imposes sanctions on those who have behaved correctly on the market. The question is whether this is contrary to the Constitution or not. We're not talking about dates here.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U188	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you so much for Sven Sester! Before we proceed with the discussion of the matter, I say that the proposal of the Economic Commission has been received to extend the plenary session of the Riigikogu of 10 May 2011 until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We need to go through the voting procedure. Obviously, within the remaining half-hour, we may not be able to reach the final item on the agenda. Pursuant to § 48 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, a two-thirds majority is required for the adoption of this decision. Mr Mikhail Stalnukhin, the third question cannot be asked. You may take back your wish. Do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U189	I don't know what it's like during this. Do I have the right to ask for a presence check?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U190	This is not possible in the ordinary session in the case of intermediate votes. We are based on the fact that 91 people have registered to be present, which means that there are 61 votes in two thirds. I am voting on the proposal of the Economic Committee to extend today's plenary session of the Riigikogu, i.e. the session of 10 May 2011, until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please vote! There are 79 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents, there are 1 abstentions. The proposal has been accepted. Let's get back to the hearing. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? Please, Mrs Vassilyev, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U191	By supplementing the previous questioner, I will continue with the same question. Positive responses were given. But does this bill increase the risk of corruption or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U192	Ladies and gentlemen, The Socialists have one concern about this bill. But before I get to that problem, I want to talk about something positive. In fact, as a member of the fresh Committee on Monetary Affairs, I would very much like to congratulate the previous Committee on Monetary Affairs. As we know and have read in the press, there were some serious problems with fuel companies. They had been made quite easy to obtain in the register, which meant that many companies were actively taking advantage of this possibility. Unfortunately, their economic and business skills tended to end before the time for paying taxes came. In order to change this situation, the previous Committee on Monetary Affairs made amendments to the Liquid Fuel Act, the content of which was that guarantees were created. It was also good that two completely different groups were treated differently: those who sell fuel already allowed for consumption and others who sell what is allowed for consumption from the excise warehouse. In essence, they are completely different entrepreneurs. One could be a small gas station with a guarantee requirement of EUR 100000 and the other a high turnover wholesaler with a guarantee of up to EUR 1 million. In fact, this tax risk lies in the latter. It was certainly very practical and useful that the final version went into the so-called different implementation period since the Tax and Customs Board was able to reduce the guarantee in justified circumstances. In fact, the point was that by 2013 the market would be so-called self-regulated, the Tax and Customs Board would use the discretion to a minimum and thus reduce the number of possible appeals that could come up with decisions taken by the Tax and Customs Board that would reduce the guarantee or not. I thought it was a very sensible and good law. For this, I would like to congratulate the previous Committee on Monetary Affairs sincerely. We are now in the situation that a draft law amending the law that has already been adopted has been tabled, in which the basic legal dispute revolves around two concepts. One is possible non-proportionality and the other is non-moderate. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in this very Chamber, this content has been discussed very differently. It has been said that this is not a violation of the principle of equal treatment. It seems that everyone agrees that there is probably no need in this context to treat a small gas station and a wholesaler with a high turnover equally. If it were important, not only should the dates on which the Tax and Customs Board receives certain rights but also guarantees be equalised, but no one has requested it. This is probably not a legal issue at the moment. It has been said that perhaps this guarantee claim of EUR 1 million is disproportionate. This is not an issue either, because in this case the draft law should change the amount of the guarantee, not one date. The third issue that has been mentioned is that we are dealing with equally honest and unfair entrepreneurs now, and maybe it is bad. We have a number of laws that already do so, such as the Public Procurement Act, but we are not saying that this is contrary to the Constitution. For us, today's reasoning is incomprehensible. We see great risks for the future and see that the Tax and Customs Board may have disputes when making decisions, if in one case they claim to have been presented...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U193	Five minutes are up. Would you like more time? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U194	We see the risk that there may be disputes over decisions taken by the Tax and Customs Board if, in one case, the proposal to reduce the deposit is accepted, in the other case not. Consequently, it is very difficult for the Social Democratic Party to support the completion of the first reading. In addition, we hope that there will not be such a practice in future legislation that we are going to change the laws that have already been passed by one law firm or another. As regards whether this is really a breach of the Constitution, the institutions that monitor and deal with the constitutional barrages have given this law their acceptance. We hope that if this law is finally passed in this Chamber, it will all be a little unpleasant, but still a rare exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U195	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the Central Party Group. Three minutes extra, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U196	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U197	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U198	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, You pointed out in your explanations that the current regulation has had a very positive effect on the functioning of a fair market. All the more reason I can't figure out exactly who and what it's for to change it. Since the draft concerns importers of heating or heat-producing liquids, perhaps the opposition is on the wrong path at all, and one of the objectives of the draft is to bring home costs under control, as the IRL has promised?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U199	Thank you. We could talk about home expenses for a long time. I think that if you would give me this opportunity now, I would certainly take advantage of it, but afterwards you would say, 'Mr Sester, this was not discussed in the Commission. Why did you start talking about it for so long? ' So I can't really talk about it. But now from the misconceptions of the opposition. Sometimes I've noticed the opposition is on the right track, but this time I think you're really on the wrong track. Why do I think that? This was also discussed in the Commission. At this point, I am still trying to talk about what was discussed in the Commission. If this draft had not been initiated at the moment and the law which was adopted in February would have been implemented, there could be a situation of a dispute before a court against the Constitution. If this is challenged in a court of law, it may happen (I have understood that the lawyers of the Ministry of Finance have issued such an opinion) that the state may lose its position and that the law which has come into force today and which has been implemented in reality, which was adopted in February in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, will be suspended. It's the most unpleasant thing that can happen. It may then also happen that the direct rights of the tax administration arising from this guarantee, the three-year-old impeccable renomee, etc., will not apply until the dispute has been brought to an end in court. I think it might be the hardest thing for all of us. None of us want the situation to come back to normal that still existed. So far, there hasn't been a guarantee system. When Mr Sõerd said that there was nothing political here, I believe he was not wrong. This is nothing political, this is a purely legal nuance. At least some members of the Riigikogu are responsible and want no legal vacuum if the operation of the law already adopted and implemented is stopped at one point.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U200	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U201	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! We have now learned that this is a follow-up debate on the draft law that took place in February. I ask for interest: when did you discuss this draft with the NGOs and their representatives in the sector concerned, or was it currently taking place in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U202	Thanks! In fact, when we talk in the light of the logic of the follow-up proposal, this draft has been dealt with since the beginning of the year. The main discussions with the stakeholders took place at the beginning of the year, in February, and also in January. During the procedure of the previous draft, I think it was discussed, I may be mistaken, a letter from six or seven interest groups, but this was all during the work of the previous Riigikogu. It is now very clear that there is a risk, that the Ministry's Legal Department sees a risk. I asked the initiator if he saw that he had common goals with the oil company. I think he said very well that the objective is the same. The question is whether the legal assessments given to the draft law that was passed as a law in February can create a risk or not, whether or not a legal vacuum is created. Those are the questions. Since lawyers believe it is possible to create a legal vacuum, this risk must be eliminated in the bud.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U203	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U204	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! This bill is actually about extending and deepening the discretion of the Tax and Customs Board. If there is already an amendment to the law, could it not go so far as to remove the levels of guarantees from the law and give the right to grant guarantees exclusively to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U205	Thank you. Actually, we're not expanding or deepening anything. Don't forget that when we talk in the context of the Liquid Fuel Act, the Tax and Customs Board has the right to take decisions on guarantees of EUR 100000 immediately and on guarantees of EUR 1 million from 2013. We do not really increase or reduce their rights; rather, we will bring this right to the present time. The reason it's being brought in now is very clear from this remote control. We're not increasing or reducing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U206	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U207	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I have a short question and it also requires a short answer. The opposition was very concerned about a number of issues as to whether this bill could make fuel more expensive or cheaper. Is it the right thing to think that with this draft we will make the conditions on the market more equal? We will improve the position of a certain proportion of fuel companies, they may become entitled to a smaller deposit and consequently reduce their financial cost, reduce costs in general. We're actually creating a presumption of a fall in price rather than an increase. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U208	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. The proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to reject the draft 24 at first reading and now the proposal of the Estonian Central Party Group not to stop reading. Dear Riigikogu, let's prepare for the voting procedure and come to the hall. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to reject the draft 24 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu were in favour, 49 opposed, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The first reading of Bill 24 amending the Liquid Fuel Act has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments in s. tho 11 May at 3 p.m. Kadri Simson would like to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U209	Thank you. I like these questions when the answer is turned away. As a result, I can tell you simply yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U210	I have a procedural remark. Mr President, you forgot to vote on the Central Party proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U211	These are coincident proposals. The Social Democratic Party's proposal was received in time before.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U212	Thanks! I suggest that we all remain within the framework of this draft for the sake of constructiveness. We'll have a much easier time, then we won't spread out in our minds and issues. Within the framework of this draft, we are not arguing about what was debated in February when a guarantee of EUR 100000 was put on small filling stations and a guarantee of EUR 1 million for so-called suppliers of fuel. If I remember correctly, it is in these disputes that took place in February that the guarantee of EUR 100000 was immediately granted, if the filling stations have behaved correctly, that there is a three-year-old impeccable Renome and no tax debts. As far as I can remember, it was at that time that the possibility of reducing the guarantees for small-scale filling stations was brought forward if these filling stations had acted correctly. In that case, they do not need to have such a guarantee, and the Tax and Customs Board has the possibility to reduce that guarantee immediately. But with this bill, we are not dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U213	We come to the eighth item, which is the debate on the 'Energy Savings' issue, which is of crucial importance. Let me briefly present the procedure for the debate. First, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts receives the floor, second, Professor Tõnu Lehtla, dean of the Faculty of Energy of the Tallinn University of Technology, and third, Kaja Kallas, chairman of the Economic Commission. All waitresses have 20 minutes to perform, then they can be asked questions within 20 minutes. I would like to draw the attention of the members of the Riigikogu to the fact that every member of the Riigikogu is able to submit up to two oral questions to all the rapporteurs. After questions and answers, we open negotiations. According to our custom, I propose to the Riigikogu that there be first speakers from the political groups, then other members of the Riigikogu. There are five minutes to speak, and you can ask for up to three more minutes. After the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U214	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Energy saving is on the agenda for a number of serious reasons. Globally, fossil fuels are predominantly used to produce energy. It may be argued how large their stocks are, but at some point they will be exhausted. Until mankind has a long - term solution to cover its energy needs, it is wise to avoid wasting. The feasibility of saving energy is also evident from the recession since the financial crisis due to fuel prices that have risen again. Energy efficiency is also a key issue in European energy and climate policy. Energy efficiency means the use of less input energy while maintaining an equivalent level of economic activity or service. Energy saving (this is a word that we often use in our regular speech) is a broader concept. This includes, for example, reducing consumption through behavioural changes. Simply put, energy saving does not mean sitting in a cold or dark room, but it has to be done to make energy use as efficient as possible. In order to improve energy efficiency in general, certain expenditures, i.e. investing in energy saving, need to be made first. What have been the targets in Europe and Estonia? Energy efficiency has been on the political agenda of both the European Union and Estonia for some time and several targets have been set. The European Council set the overall energy savings target in 2007 to reduce the projected primary energy consumption by 20% by 2020. As the current trends do not ensure that this target is reached, the European Commission, together with the Member States, has developed a new Energy Efficiency Action Plan. It was published in March this year. The European Commission attaches great importance to the role of the public sector in this action plan. It is planned to set a mandatory annual rate of reconstruction of public buildings to a very good level of energy efficiency, which is 3% of the total public buildings area. The European Commission considers it necessary to impose energy saving obligations on energy companies and to pay attention to the issue of energy savings in actions financed by the European Union. The European Union has set requirements and also intends to continue to impose requirements on products that directly or indirectly affect final energy consumption. This concerns a large number of household appliances, as well as construction products. Now about Estonia's goals. The action plan "Estonia 2020', endorsed by the government a few weeks ago, aims to keep final energy consumption at the same level as in 2010 (around 120 petajoules). This objective has also been achieved by the Government of the Republic in 2011-2015. activities intended for energy saving in the 2006 action programme. Which areas have the greatest potential for improving energy efficiency? If we look at Estonia's energy consumption balance, the ranking of energy consumption by sector is as follows. The overwhelming share of total consumption is for households whose annual energy consumption was 51 petajoules in 2008, or 42% of the final energy consumption in Estonia. The following sectors of energy intensity are industry and transport, which consume as much energy as households combined. In the business and public services sector, 14% of the final energy consumed in Estonia is consumed annually. The energy consumption of agriculture is already smaller in size, i.e. about 3% of the final energy consumption. If we look at energy sources, energy use is divided into 34 petajoules, or 27% of total energy consumption, 23% of district heating heat, 20% of electricity and 30% of other fuels, especially different heating fuels. We have done research in Estonia to analyse energy saving options. For buildings, the technical potential for energy savings has been estimated at 25% of their energy consumption. For some groups of buildings, savings can be achieved by close to 50%, perhaps more. According to a survey of industrial companies, the potential for electricity savings in industry is 10%, while heat savings are 30%. Compared to the average level of the European Union in the Estonian passenger car fleet, we can see that the specific fuel consumption of our vehicles is similar to that of the Scandinavian countries. At the same time, it is 20% above the European average. What can we conclude from this? Three conclusions can be drawn. First, the main focus, priority or key to success of Estonia's energy saving policy is improving energy consumption in buildings. Both in our homes and in public buildings. Secondly, transport and industry need a great deal of attention. Thirdly, Estonia's energy saving potential has been dispersed, many energy consumers have to be dealt with to succeed and many small projects have to be carried out. As a result, small and medium-sized enterprises have good opportunities for energy saving activities in Estonia. The increase in living levels is inevitably accompanied by an increase in energy consumption, a logical rule. According to the forecast, Estonia's total energy consumption could increase by 13 to 15% by 2020, which would mean 17 petajoules of additional consumption. Each additional petajoule of electricity consumption represents an additional cost to the Estonian electricity consumer of approximately 28 million euros per year. On the transport side, the annual consumption of each additional petajoule represents a cost of EUR 38 million. In total, an increase in energy consumption of 13 to 15% would mean additional costs for consumers of nearly EUR 400 million per year. Given the energy saving potential in different sectors, the growth of energy consumption in Estonia until 2020 is avoidable. This does not happen by itself, however, it is clear that the country also needs to take measures to do so. What has the country done so far? You know that the Estonian government has approved the energy savings target programme for 2007-2013. Given that we have set a new target in our Action Plan 'Estonia 2020' and that the European Commission has come up with a new Energy Efficiency Action Plan, this target programme will certainly need to be updated in the coming years and a more detailed implementation plan will have to be developed. All proposals and ideas are obviously welcome. The energy saving measures taken so far by the state have been primarily aimed at reducing energy consumption in housing. This is also logical, given that, as has been said earlier, household expenditure accounts for the largest part of all our energy consumption, and that we live in the north. The situation of Estonian dwellings is not commendable. The real estate boom occurred mainly in prices, not so much in square metres. Thus, a large part of apartment buildings are at such an age that they need renovation. It has been said whether Soviet dwellings can at all be made to meet modern requirements at reasonable cost. In cooperation with the experts of Tallinn University of Technology, we can conclude on the state of the panel and brick buildings that the houses will last for several decades and there is no risk of collapse. The same study showed that some renovated apartment buildings have very serious problems with the indoor climate, in particular air change. This has also been taken into account in the State support measures. The State supports the complex renovation of residential buildings, i.e. not only to reduce heat losses, but also to take into account the need to ensure a good internal climate. The renovation of apartment buildings has been publicly supported since 2003 in an increasing volume. Between 2003 and 2009, the State supported the renovation of apartment buildings through SA KredEx with EUR 11.7 million and the preparation of reconstruction activities with around EUR 2 million. These are relatively small figures. The main measures currently being taken are the renovation loan programme for apartment buildings and support for renovation of apartment buildings. To finance the renovation of apartment buildings, we offer a long-term renovation loan with preferential interest through KredEx. The banks will issue the loan as of 2009. The loan period under this measure is up to 20 years. The total amount of the programme is EUR 49 million. To date, nearly half of the loan resources (EUR 25 million) have been directed to the market by the banks. The second measure has been open since last autumn. The so-called Green Investment Scheme "Renovation Support for Buildings' will be implemented. Support can be applied for 15%, 25% and 35% of the total cost of the apartment building project, depending on the level of complexity of reconstruction of the apartment building. This support can be combined with a loan for the renovation of a previously mentioned apartment building. The combined use of both measures will make financing for renovation of the apartment building more accessible to people. To date, 79 apartment buildings have been reconstructed with a total amount of 1.64 million euros. Given that the budget for this measure is several times higher, i.e. EUR 30 million and more, we are looking for ways to make the use of this support more attractive to housing associations. According to the feedback from the housing associations, the implementation of reconstruction projects is mainly entangled behind the individual respondents or there are utilities debts in the apartment building, which makes it difficult for the cooperative to obtain a loan from the bank. In order to step up our application, we intend to cut red tape both in applying for grants and in obtaining construction permits. In addition to these two, the largest financial programme of measures, we are also implementing other programmes that support them. Firstly, a programme to inform citizens about the energy efficiency of housing. Within this framework, KredEx and its Climate and Energy Agency (Climate and Energy Agency) carried out information campaigns in 2008 and 2009 to inform people about energy saving opportunities. The second measure is support for energy audit and building expertise and construction design. The practice so far has shown that it is best to reconstruct the entire dwelling at once. However, the prerequisite for achieving good results is first an energy audit, an expert assessment of the building and a well-designed project. Therefore, as of June 2008, an additional financial contribution of up to 90% of the audit and project costs can be requested for these activities. Looking to the future, I will highlight seven major energy saving trends. Firstly, support programmes for energy saving activities in apartment buildings must be continued. Support to date has resulted in more economically advantageous work. We estimate their total volume to be less than one fifth of what we need. However, in order to bring apartment buildings into line with modern energy efficiency and internal climate requirements, billions more euros need to be invested. The state should also ask where to take this money, in addition to the obvious contribution of the owners of the apartments. We believe that, if the programmes mentioned above are used financially, we are also willing to consider channelling the revenue from the sale of CO2 quotas to the State in 2013 to this programme, as well as the development of the action through the structural resources allocated to the European Union in the next financial period. It is clear that the country must continue its support programmes. At the same time, we need to think about how to build support programmes so that they are more attractive to housing associations. Secondly, the government plans to develop a support measure for energy saving activities in small houses. About a quarter of Estonian households live in small houses. On the one hand, energy end-use data in the household sector point to inefficient energy use, on the other hand, studies show a poor internal climate in small houses. As a small house has more outdoors per square metre of housing than an apartment building, the overall energy saving potential there is less than that of an apartment building. At the same time, it is easier to reconstruct private homes because they have only one owner. The exemption from income tax on housing loans alone has not motivated the owners to invest enough in energy saving. This money comes back in a long time, and without keeping records on paper, a person may not feel it. It is therefore necessary to improve people's information about energy saving opportunities. We intend to launch a support programme for the reconstruction of small houses as soon as there is a financial opportunity. At present, the government's action programme has a deadline of 2014 and, if possible, we will start earlier. Thirdly, the government is implementing a programme for the reconstruction of public buildings with a total volume of EUR 146.5 million this year. This allows about 480 public buildings to be rebuilt more energy-efficiently. In addition, we finance the reconstruction of buildings from the structural resources of the European Union and the cooperation programme between Estonia and Switzerland. In harmonising the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive to be transposed by July next year, we are planning to implement stricter minimum energy performance requirements for buildings. The plan is to tighten the requirements in a differentiated manner, according to the type of building and in several stages, up to nearly zero-energy building requirements. A step-by-step approach will allow time for training people and for R &amp; D in this area. The definition of a nearly zero-energy building is being developed and this work will be completed by autumn. However, from 2019 all new public buildings will have to be built as nearly zero-energy buildings, and from 2021 this requirement will also extend to private-sector buildings. This is a very important task, in which the European Union has set a country's course of action. Fourthly, as mentioned above, we must pay attention to improving the competitiveness of industry through energy efficiency. With the support of Enterprise Development Foundation, we have provided companies with development opportunities, such as an industrial company's technology investment programme and support for knowledge and skills development. In the framework of the implementation of the Competitiveness Plan "Estonia 2020', an energy saving support measure for industrial enterprises is also planned and a financial instrument including support for energy audit and funding opportunities for the activities resulting from the audit is being implemented. The fifth area of government energy saving activities is energy savings in transport. The energy use of transport can be contained in three ways: reducing transport needs, increasing the use of public transport vehicles and increasing the economy of vehicles. The use of vehicles is also effectively controlled by excise duty on motor fuel. Reducing transport needs and increasing the economic performance of vehicles will make it possible to achieve change in both passenger and freight transport, and increasing the use of public transport will only reduce the energy use of private vehicles. In order to achieve a considerable impact, it is necessary to address all three strands. Currently, the main activities are related to increasing the economics of vehicles through the acquisition of new public transport vehicles, new trains, buses, gas buses, trams, as well as tests to implement the e-mobility programme, which means the purchase of electric cars and the development of infrastructure across Estonia. The sixth area is energy efficiency in the services sector. Energy consumption in the services sector has increased significantly in recent years: since 2000 growth has been 60% and in 2009 it did not shrink at all despite the recession. Clarifying energy savings in this area requires further research and more detailed energy statistics. We intend to do this in the process of renewing the energy saving programme. The seventh important task of the government is to ensure the availability of high quality data for the analysis of energy economy and energy efficiency data. The assessment of energy saving opportunities is sometimes hampered by a lack of data. Energy statistics do not provide data on energy consumption in sub-sectors of the services sector. Lack of data also hampers the analysis of industrial sites, district heating networks and energy consumption in buildings and the planning of savings measures. In the field of energy saving, one important issue for European Union action in the coming years is whether or not the European Union is implementing a mandatory energy saving target for Member States. Until now, Estonia has not considered this necessary. In summary, I believe that the cooperation between the government and the Riigikogu in dealing with the laws relating to energy saving will be good in the future. I welcome the establishment of a Sustainable Energy Support Group in the Riigikogu. I hope that this will ensure adequate attention to energy saving issues in the Riigikogu and society as a whole in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You gave a very good overview of this area. But your speech revealed that we still have a lot of unresolved issues in the field of energy saving. You mentioned support measures that can be used, in particular, to renovate apartment buildings. Are you convinced that the sums of money that will be used will ensure such energy savings that it will help to achieve the objective of building only nearly zero-energy buildings from 2021 onwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U216	Thank you. The financial support programme for apartment buildings, which should be the most attractive for housing associations, is structured in such a way that the amount of money depends on the energy efficiency achieved per apartment building. As I said, if there is energy savings of more than 50%, the state will cover 35% of the cost of the reconstruction project. If it were possible to fix 60% of the apartment buildings in Estonia, then, I think, we would have made significant progress in energy savings. The problem (I believe that today's debate must also focus on this) is how to support housing associations to make more use of this opportunity. There are different problems here. In the government, we have considered whether to increase the rate of public funding. Whether we do or not, it will be revealed in the near future. There is some need to do this because we really want to activate this sector more, but we have to take into account that the more we, as a country, support a project to renovate a specific apartment building, the less money the state will have for the renovation needs of the entire housing fund. However, what really matters at the heart of the short term is how to significantly activate building associations to undertake reconstruction projects. This measure, which we did with the Climate and Energy Agency or which they offered, was well succeeded, but which is relatively massively sacked in this Chamber. Up to 90% of the cost of the energy audit and project can be applied for support and this has been very pleasing to housing associations. The demand is very high. We're looking for extra resources to get members and owners of the building management company to see this project. Then they see that if they do one thing or another, how much it costs more or less, and how much they actually win at home. The third problem that I think we should discuss here is still how to activate banks and construction, repair, real estate development and management companies. I dare say that, although we have been dealing with this for three years, the coming, offering the best possible products to housing companies to carry out this thing, is not yet satisfactory. But I believe that the private sector will certainly come along with this in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U217	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your speech contained the words 'energy saving' and 'energy efficiency', which is the subject of today, but I also plucked the year 2021 out of the speech. Public buildings should then be energy efficient. Can we not be a little more demanding in Estonia, do it a little earlier and perhaps start next year building new buildings, both kindergartens, school buildings and, for example, city government buildings in an energy-efficient way?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U219	Thank you. Two important requirements, which ultimately require regularisation from the Riigikogu, are an important increase in the energy efficiency rate of new buildings to the level of the so-called zero energy house in 2019 for public buildings and in 2021 for private buildings. Personally, I do not believe that it would be reasonable for us to implement it earlier, because it requires much preparatory work. This is not Estonia's peculiarity. Designers, architects, more awareness, etc. are needed. I think the preparatory work to bring this "standard" into a normal society's behaviour is very serious. Obviously, it is worth wondering whether it is quite reasonable to apply such an absolute requirement in Estonia, given our particular national and cultural characteristics. Of course, we must bear in mind that the energy efficiency requirement will certainly mean a square meter in the future and a significant increase in the cost of the building, I think 20 to 30%.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U220	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U221	I'll start with the other side of the question. Surely there is a great deal of change in energy today. It was about smart grids. They actually require a completely new way of thinking and should be promoted among the people. Consumers are becoming increasingly part of the energy system and must perceive it. He must have opportunities to operate there, and on the other hand, he should also have responsibility for the disappearances. Such educational events are certainly necessary. The first part of the question was whether the authorities had made sufficient use of the assistance of scientists. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, It is my first time in front of you, but my fellow Members have previously worked on the drafting of development plans in ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U222	Thank you. Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, the energy source with the greatest potential, such as the Sun, has somehow remained in the background in Estonia. How do you feel about us being hopelessly behind in this country compared to other countries? Does the sun have great potential, and what can we change here to fix it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U224	In fact, this is not the case, because almost all energy on Earth has been generated by the sun, and fossil fuels have never been created because of the sun. Thanks to the sun, the climate shield works, hydropower and wind are used. In our climate, the direct exposure of the sun is probably not very effective, especially in relation to the southern regions, Africa, Asia and the southern regions of America. I think we have the wind to complete this task, but the problems remain the same: the problem is keeping the balance of power. For wind, something is needed aside, such as an energy storage device, which would allow the power balance to be adjusted to the consumer. It's a problem. Getting a lot of wind energy is not a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U225	Thank you. Please, Margus Hanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U226	Thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. We know that the European Union has adopted minimum energy performance requirements and that we will soon have to deal with the design and construction of nearly zero-energy buildings. At the moment, such concepts have not yet been furnished. But as a scientist, can you tell us what to do with these concepts and what the 'energy limit' could be per square metre of buildings?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U227	I'm not a heat engineering specialist or a construction engineering specialist, so I'm not gonna say the bill. But real zero-energy houses are probably out of the question in our climate. At the very least, nearly zero energy houses are possible, where energy consumption is somewhat available. However, there is certainly a huge energy saving reserve in buildings, both due to the current quality of construction and to the fact that a large number of buildings are very old.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U228	Thank you. Please, Kalle Jents!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U229	Thank you. Mr. Professor! How much LED technology has been studied at Tallinn University of Technology? One energy-intensive area is street lighting. Smaller and larger cities have started to replace old mercury lamps with sodium lamps. It is claimed that new LED lamps, at least according to advertising by importers and sellers, are more energy efficient many times yet there are no objective criteria. Does the Technical University have any research data on this? Many cities, such as my hometown Viljandi, plan to replace street lighting, but there is a big question about whether to choose sodium lights or LED technology has a great future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U230	We certainly have lighting specialists, as well as these data. As far as I know, we still have sodium lamps in use from a long time ago. The efficiency of sodium lamps is in the same order of magnitude as for LED lamps. I don't see a very big problem here. In addition to sodium lamps, there may be other types of lamps in use which should be replaced in the future. But I don't think the LED lights are gonna be in use in street lighting anytime soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U231	Thank you. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U232	Thank you, Minister, for a good presentation. A lot of heat has already blown up, and with a lot of money, it's been hot. It's a good thing the Ministry is working on this. My question is as follows. We know the hottest part is lost on the heat lines. What opportunity do you see to help you fix the heat lines? There is no need for an audit, just to replace most of the heat lines in central heating areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U233	Mr. Professor! As I understand it, we are dealing with a fundamental scientific contradiction. On the one hand, a number of new energy sources, such as the sun and the wind, are very unstable in nature, and on the other they produce something that is very difficult to maintain. Now the question is: is there any technical idea of how to overcome this contradiction? The second part of the question: if we are moving towards these uncertain energy sources, which we must compensate for with the classic fossil compensation plants, what is the balance that lies under the line? Will we finally win or lose out on this so-called green energy, which by its very nature is anything but green?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U234	Thank you very much, Minister Parts, for the very precise use of time. It has a price of gold today. First question, Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U235	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have already addressed this issue in your first reply. I want to clarify the possibility for cooperatives to receive aid for project management. The sums that go into the insulation of the houses are quite large, but, as far as I know, cooperatives have a major problem in terms of administration, bureaucracy. It's complicated, and it takes time. Often, cooperatives' boards have to deal with this on their own time and for their own money. Is it possible for KredEx, for example, to introduce a new measure so that cooperatives can also take project management services with the support of the state? Figuratively speaking, there would be a hundred professional project managers in KredEx who would offer cooperatives "keys" solutions. Money is not always the biggest question mark, but rather the lack of know-how.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U236	Thank you. We have been thinking about this, but we would still refrain from creating such a cluster of national specialists for house repair. We have an enormous number of entrepreneurs who define themselves as real estate managers and developers. In my opinion, these people, most of whom provide one or another service to housing associations, have a huge potential to actively enter the market and support housing associations, if necessary, also in managing projects. We have organised (i.e. I do not see a financial problem here, but rather a problem of absorption capacity) all kinds of information and training. I want to recognise the association of housing associations, both the national union and local organisations. They've been pretty active. Thirdly, of course, local authorities must be mentioned. I can now give a good example of Rakvere, where the local government has taken up a total of 18 housing associations and manages one project, private sector specialists have been hired to clean up certain quarters of the city together, etc. In fact, there are a lot of examples. The last thing I really imagine is for public officials to take the place of the private sector or the third sector and the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U237	Thank you. Please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U238	Thank you. First of all, Minister, thank you for your very thorough presentation. My question concerns intelligent electricity networks (the English term is smart grid). You have probably heard about this, and you are also well aware of the issue of households or industrial areas where IT, technological development, intelligent electricity grids achieve energy savings, both more efficient energy consumption and production. What role do you see in the development of smart-grid networks in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U239	Thank you. We have supported not so much the network, but different innovative projects in individual places of consumption. Here, for example, are the so-called smart houses. I think that the development of so-called smart networks should be feasible for companies controlled mainly by the state. The key question is always the one who pays. We know about the core network, Elering and the distribution network, of which 90% belongs to the distribution network of Eesti Energia, how difficult it is to actually finance these investments. It should be taken into account that investment can still be financed at the expense of the "final consumer," taking into account the capacity of households and businesses to withstand the rise in electricity prices. The pace of investment must be reasonable. But in any case, you have to keep doing this, it's this key. Both the core network and the distribution network strategies provide for appropriate activities, which is more about the pace of investment. Today, it is not so much a matter of not getting money, but of investing too much, nor of raising the price of electricity too quickly and unreasonablely for the consumer. We need to keep this pace reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U240	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U241	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. In your report, you also mentioned the introduction of electric cars as an energy saving option. We are known to be able to acquire 500 cars for our social workers out of future money from the sale of emissions. As regards the second 500, a 50% subsidy scheme for private consumers, buyers, should be in place. In this connection, I have the question: can you specify or provide more detailed information on the possible timetable for these activities? It is likely that the interest of private consumers in electric cars depends much on whether or not the full-Estonian charging network is ready. Can you specify when an all-Estonian charging network will be completed and when the measure to support electric cars will be opened?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U242	Thank you. A few words about this project. It is still, to a certain extent, an experimental project, a kind of opportunity that we do well to experiment with in view of Estonia's small size. If we look at the wider challenges facing transport, there is no revolution or a clear transition yet. The fact that electric cars based on fossil fuels create some kind of significant success in terms of energy efficiency is not certain at all. However, this does not mean that we should not experiment with this project. The state of play of the project is that perhaps at the end of this week or next week we will be able to issue a draft regulation on support for electric cars to the Estonian public for discussion. If the debate is going smoothly, we would like to open this measure in August, perhaps in September. That's the pace. The same is true of infrastructure. We're in the middle of preparations. Within about a month (forgive, but do not take this as a final promise) we want to come up with public procurement, public competitions or public calls (we do not know exactly how to call it) to find the right people to install these high-speed charging points in three places: roads, small towns and cities. As we know, the total amount of money is 250 for high-speed charging points. It is more or less divided between these three possible locations and the application unit is KredEx. In about a month, there will probably be public calls to find suitable places. There are also certain minimum criteria in place. The problem is not so much a problem, but a decision-making place can occur if there are more applicants than we have in place. How, then, can we make a reasonable decision? Secondly, we are preparing a procurement to find the future operator of the loading points. As the pace is relatively rapid, events should start to happen in the coming months. That's the pace we're working at right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U243	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U244	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the insulation of apartment buildings. When we look at the insulation process of apartment buildings, we see that this is predominantly the concern of the housing associations themselves. There is no wider, more systematic process based on apartment areas. Do you not think that local authorities should be more involved? Otherwise, there may be rainbow habitats where one house is beautiful and the other one is ugly. The money has been spent, but there is no single residential planning. Afterwards, the residents of the apartment building are in trouble that their house is beautiful and decent, but the window looks up against a uglyly renovated opposite house.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U245	Definitely! As I said earlier, the municipality has great opportunities to participate. There has been criticism of bureaucracy. I call on the municipalities to process these building permits more quickly, as all building associations' renovation projects usually need to be processed in accordance with the Building Act. There are very good examples. We will begin to recognise the municipalities that are at the forefront in this regard. I gave an example here of Rakvere, who has taken very good initiative, but there are still such municipalities across Estonia and there are many of them. I don't want to mention anyone. In fact, not only is the so-called soft support measures, the provision of friendly bureaucracy, but there are municipalities that also financially support housing associations in initiating and implementing renovation projects.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U246	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U247	The problem you're drawing attention to is there. We have offered a number of support measures through the Environmental Investment Centre. But I want to correct this: if we look at the country-wide energy balance, we will see that there is still the greatest possibility of energy savings or energy efficiency improvements in buildings. Of course, that doesn't mean you don't have to deal with heat lines. Here the previous Riigikogu was praised, and I also want to praise. The Law on Monopoly Control was passed. This creates certain regulatory options for the Competition Authority. At the moment, we are making a development plan for the heating economy, at least such work has been initiated. We would not just like to make the development plan for the warm economy one development plan, but we should determine to what extent we should support it. One of the problems with heating routes is often that the current district heating law and the whole regulation may be overly protective of existing routes and the so-called'shopped apartment buildings'. There are examples that even a single apartment building does not always have to be in a central system; it actually achieves pretty good savings when it is alone. However, it has been generally demonstrated that the more houses belong to the so-called tubular colchiosis, the greater the savings should be. So there's kind of a problem here. In general, the municipalities are in possession of these routes. The question is whether or not the companies managing the heat line want to invest and how to force them to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U248	Thank you. There's 30 seconds left. Please, Peep Aru, a short question! I'm asking for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U249	Thank you. A very brief question. Minister, thank you very much. When you answered your good report and questions, you talked a lot about housing companies. But I have a landlord at home, a husband. Is there anything comforting to say to him as the owner of a private home? Can we get some help?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U250	Interestingly, I was hoping to get more questions about this, but the time is running out, there are three seconds left. We are working on this and we are looking for ways to extend measures to small homes as well. 25% of households live in small homes. We must admit that, purely technically, the unit-per-unit victory achieved in small homes is less than in large apartment buildings. But I also think we shouldn't leave out small houses. We have agreed in the government that in 2014 we will have to offer some kind of carrot to them as well. That would be fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U251	Thank you very much. Asking questions to Minister Parts is over. I invite Professor Tõnu Lehtla of the Department of Energy of the Tallinn University of Technology to give a speech chair. The speaking time is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U252	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I want to talk about the general aspects of energy efficiency. We were talking about concepts. We can talk about the efficiency of energy conversion, or the efficiency of machinery, we can talk about the overall energy efficiency, which aims to benefit more from less energy. We can talk about energy saving, which marks efforts to reduce energy use. The terms 'energy production' and 'energy consumption' are formally contrary to the law on energy sustainability, because in fact we cannot generate or spend more energy. I will start by showing a graph showing the ratio between energy consumption and gross domestic product in the countries of the world. The red arrow points to Estonia. Estonia is the 38th largest country in the world in terms of GDP per capita. We are above this line, which shows that our energy consumption is slightly higher than the average could be. Our aim should be to shift Estonia's point to the right on this graph, but not very upward, in order to become one of the 'normal countries'. The main conclusion, however, is that, thanks to energy, we are able to develop in the first place, because we owe energy to development. The second picture compares the human development index and electricity consumption. Several countries of the world have also been placed here. This curve has one inflection point, which shows that, below a certain level of consumption, the human development index of countries is also starting to fall very suddenly. Estonia drew on this picture found on the Internet: our location is close to the corner. Rather, we need to increase the consumption of electricity in order to improve our human development. The next slide shows energy consumption per capita in European households. In Estonia, households consume more energy per capita than the European Union average. Compared to 1990 and 2007, total energy consumption in Estonian households has decreased, while electricity consumption has increased at the same time. This is a normal phenomenon that goes along with development. This trend will probably continue, i.e. we will be able to reduce total energy consumption, but electricity consumption will inevitably increase. A few words about the energy balance. This slide presents the annual energy balance of the Earth in a simplified form. We get about 10,000 times more energy from the sun than we consume fossil fuels. Solar energy is reflected back into space or converted into various forms of energy in the Earth's climate boiler, which we can also consume. The consumption of these forms of energy from the Earth's climate boiler is relatively innocent and we will not be particularly damaging to the energy balance as a whole. Therefore, in particular, we should talk about the saving of fossil fuels and their reduced use. There is a lack of energy from the interior of the Earth in the form of nuclear reactions, or geothermal heat, the use of which is also innocent and beneficial. A few words about energy conversion. Energy conversion is very multi-stage. In particular, I am talking about the conversion of fuels. Fuels are converted into heat, heat is converted into mechanical motion, then electricity. Electricity is transmitted, distributed, modified several times with transformers and eventually reaches the end user. In turn, the final consumer converts it into heat, mechanical work, light or use it in electrotechnology. Once again, the consumer converts it into low-temperature heat that disperses into the environment. This multi-stage transformation chain creates major conversion and transmission losses. Our aim is to reduce these losses and to ensure that the end-user receives maximum benefits from this energy. What is important here is the conclusion that heat and electricity are forms of energy that are difficult to supply, we cannot put them in storage or in a bag. Once we have started producing them, we must make sure that we ultimately get the maximum benefit from them. The bigger problem is that the energy balance tends to get out of hand, rather than so much energy but also power balance, i.e. energy production and consumption should be balanced at all times. The next picture illustrates the negative effects of multi-stage energy transformation. If conversion efficiency is not very high, the end-user may receive a small share of primary energy, such as fuel energy, which could be a tenth. Once again, energy, especially electricity and heat, is a commodity that cannot be stored in large quantities. That is why we need to maintain a balance of power in the energy system. Today, in the use of renewable energy, maintaining a capacity balance is an even greater problem. As a result, the market price of electricity will also change to a large extent. It is the one who wins on the market who has the power to supply when it is needed, not when it is simply left somewhere else. Now I'm talking about the main problems of energy use. The solution to the power balance problem could be smart grids, which were already mentioned here, but the creation of smart grids requires major development work. As regards the reduction of conversion and transmission losses, conversion losses can be reduced by high-tech solutions. There are no simple solutions. In the case of transmission, in most cases, since these are standard solutions, only sufficient investment is needed. The energy economic environment should stimulate us to reduce losses, not just energy production. Anyone who participates in the energy system should ensure that losses are reduced. The creation of such a situation requires a set of rules. Fourthly, it is important to stimulate energy efficiency in transport. Three alternatives have been compared: public and individual transport, transport based on internal combustion engines and electric transport, road and rail transport. The question is why we prefer more energy-intensive options in all three cases, why we do not use more public transport, electricity transport or rail transport. Much is changing in today's energy. The share of renewables is increasing, the electricity market is opening up, the consumer is becoming smarter and smarter. We're introducing heat pumps and electric cars. As a result, the capacity balance is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain and the nature of the burden on distribution networks is changing. Heat pumps, electric cars, regenerating actuators, diffuse generators create a new type of load that makes distribution grids more difficult. Two-way energy exchange, high random peak load, new electrical safety problems arise because of generation by the consumer. Due to the increased need for regulation, capacity losses are increasing. Additional capacity in weak networks will also increase losses. The networks are disrupted because all the regulators that produce them are pulsed semiconductor converters. A new phenomenon with regard to opening up the market is the high volatility of electricity prices. The solution would be smart grids or smart grids. But their creation is, of course, a rather long-term process; they do not occur overnight. In order to increase capacity, new connections are needed in transmission and distribution networks to increase transmission capacity, to build energy storage media, to use consumers to maintain the power balance, to optimise energy production and consumption, to create advanced measurement and control systems, to reduce network disruptions, and perhaps to go back partly to the use of direct current. In transport, road transport is the biggest cause of problems in Europe. I think we should start the savings from there. Now I'm gonna tell you a little bit about our own work. Our faculty has participated in the renewal of the traction drives of Tallinn trams. We achieved quite a good result: the electricity consumption of trams decreased. This slide has an example of what's going on in the trams. The blue line indicates a change in the power of the trams, which on the minus side means that the tram drives generate energy back into the grid when they brake. If we can use it sensibly, we can achieve energy savings as a whole. An electric car can do the same. This may save quite a lot of energy, but there must be technical means to do so again. The next picture illustrates how technology contributes to reducing the energy consumption of traction drives. Thus modern technology can save energy more than twice. For more information, you have been provided with benefits and the price of electricity produced in different types of power plants in 2016. It's a forecast from the U.S. Department of Energy. Finally, energy saving and energy efficiency are directly linked to optimising the energy system. The energy system is a whole and must be taken into account by all actors at any moment. It includes everyone, from primary energy producers to final consumers, and to a certain extent it must also be responsible for its effective functioning, i.e. for losses. This requires the creation of an economic mechanism. Optimising the energy system is a complex task. It must take into account security of supply, technical and political risks and economic efficiency, regional and world energy prices, technological developments, as well as the living and natural environment and human development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U253	Thank you very much, Professor Tõnu Lehtla! You have questions. The session is closed for 14 minutes. Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U254	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable performer! My question concerns housing. We know that nearly 40% of all energy is consumed in buildings. At the same time, we know that, in addition to designing, it is very important that the building really responds to the project and is properly done. Unfortunately, the situation in Estonia is that the builder also orders music, i.e. he orders supervision of his own site. This has led to a situation where the consumer may not be sure that it really corresponds to the project and is built in a high-quality way when buying a house or apartment or renting a public building. Do you think this is a normal situation, should the state regulate more and participate in this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U255	I fully agree with your view that the quality of construction is very, very important. Indeed, someone should check it out. Whether it's a customer or a country, I can't tell you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U256	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U257	Thank you, dear waitress, for a very thorough and very comprehensive presentation. What do you think could be done at the level of the legislator, so that we can meet the objectives not only in housing, but in all the areas that you have highlighted here? The previous waitress was asked questions mainly about renovation of apartment buildings, but in fact the energy saving area is much wider. I repeat: what can the legislator do to enable us to meet the objectives and to make people aware that energy savings will actually save their money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U258	A lot can probably be done by the legislator. My basic idea is that a power balance must be guaranteed in the energy system and, if this is not guaranteed, losses will occur. There is a potential situation where the manufacturer delivers energy to the consumer, but this is unfortunately a perishable commodity. For example, in the case of heat, the consumer releases excess heat through the window, in the case of electricity, when the voltage rises, the consumer starts consuming more, he pays for it, but the lamps pass faster, the electric motors operate with less efficiency, etc. That's how you get lost. We should come up with laws that can help everyone to reduce their losses. Keeping the balance sheet and reducing losses should be the main objective, not just energy production, regardless of where it disappears.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U259	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U260	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Professor Lehtla! Since your presentation was more academic and general, I will ask more generally. I'm going a little further on the question of Mr Palling. Firstly, how do you assess whether our decision-makers, such as the government and local authorities, listen adequately to the views of energy scientists and energy scientists and, in your opinion, have you been able to make a sufficient contribution to the preparation of such decisions? Secondly, what do you think should be done as a top pedagogy to improve the mentality of Estonian society and increase our knowledge of energy saving?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U261	That's a very good question. All these renewable energy sources do indeed require rebalancing. The question is what we are going to balance them with. If we have to build fast-starting gas stations to do this, I doubt that this is very good, even though it is the easiest solution. There are, of course, other solutions. Some countries have been given these solutions by nature. Where there is a lot of hydropower, for example from the Nordic countries in Norway, hydropower reserves can compensate for the accidental energy flows of both their own windmills and Danish windmills. But besides building energy storage tanks, it is possible to build hydro-accumulation plants, it is possible to build thermal accumulators, for example, the energy of windmills in district heating systems with heat batteries can be used. Smart grids are creating a new opportunity to start using smartly, so that any shift in production and consumption can put the balance sheet in place at any time, but this requires very thorough information about the processes on the network, the data networks and the management system. This means that pricing is likely to take place automatically in the future, by means of automatic machines. Automats determine the price, depending on the capacity balance of the network at any given moment, and the prices are also responded by machine guns at the consumer, deciding when to turn on and when to turn off any type of consumer and what consumption can be shifted over time. We don't have to turn on washing machines when it's peak time, we can shift most heat-related loads to a certain extent in time, we can use energy at night, for example. There are, in fact, many opportunities in this area, but this requires a good reflection.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-10_U262	Thank you very much for the waitress. Since we extended today's sitting until 14:00, unfortunately, the next registered question will not be asked. As the Committee on Economic Affairs has requested that the debate be held until the end of the Tuesday session, the debate is still ongoing. But I believe that everyone will be able to do their homework and think about the law on energy saving and energy sustainability in today's free hours and in future life as well. Have a nice day, everybody! Many thanks to the rapporteurs and the preparatory members of today's debate, Minister Juhan Parts and Professor Tõnu Lehtla, and many thanks to the Committee on Economic Affairs for raising the issue. Closure of the sitting at 2.02 p.m.
