ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U1	Good morning, good fellows. Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 9th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps many of you saw the news of the closure of the Pühajärve school last night when the crowd was in front of the Otepää parish house and also came to the parish council hall. We saw how arrogant local officials were to deal with the people. In this regard, I have an inquiry today for the head of government. I want to know how important local decisions can be made in this way if people are not taken into account and their opinions are not heard. For example, the director of the Pühajärve School learned of the last decision to close the school by reading it in the local newspaper. He was not even bothered to report it, let alone report it to the school's body of care or to parents and students. It seems that our country has quite a serious problem with democracy. The people and the country and power continue to distance themselves from each other. I want to discuss this issue in this Chamber, and that is why I am going to pass on an inquiry of eight questions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U3	I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur. The subject of questioning is drug addiction. The annual report on drug monitoring in Europe revealed that in 2009 Estonia was the country with the highest number of drug deaths, in a competitive manner, of 146 drug deaths per million inhabitants. After Estonia comes Norway, but in Norway this figure is half that figure. The number of our deaths is seven times higher than the EU average and our number is 11 times higher than that of Latvia. So it's pretty rough. The number of young drug users has also increased significantly. In 2003, 16% of people aged 25 to 34 had taken illegal drugs, compared with 36% a few years ago. Young people in nightclubs view drugs as a perfectly normal relaxation tool and even safer than alcohol. We have a lot of questions. If these figures are so high (even in terms of HIV infection, we are once again in the first place and many and many times ahead of others), why was the money for prevention cut so badly in 2009? We also have many other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U5	Good fellows! There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's go to the messages. First of all, the President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Secondly, in view of the fact that tomorrow the session of the Baltic Assembly will be held in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, I ask you to remove your personal belongings from the tables! We're gonna do a presence check. 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U6	Let's move on to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Health Services Organisation Act and the Employment Services and Benefits Act initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. I ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act 128, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Association on the Organisation of Health Services and the Amendment of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, was at two meetings of the Social Committee on 21 and 22 November. The deadline was...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U8	Good waitress! I'm sorry! Good fellows! I ask you to respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen! There's too much noise in the hall. I beg you to keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U9	Thank you. Six amendments were received...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U10	Good waitress! Me and you are making such a big noise that we are interrupting the conversation in this hall. Please, we're both even! Thank you. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U11	Thank you. The Commission discussed six amendments and supported them all in a consensual manner. The Social Affairs Committee decided to propose to the Assembly to stop the second reading of bill 128 (this decision was consensual) and to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include 128 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 6 December with a proposal to adopt the law (as well as a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U12	Good fellows! Do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Perhaps you will repeat the essence of this draft once again to increase the interest of your colleagues in the procedure for this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U14	Thank you. The draft establishes a start-up allowance for family and specialist doctors who, after completing their residency, go to work outside Tartu and Tallinn, or rural areas. The amount of this grant is up to EUR 15000 and the budget is set at EUR 150000 for the following year. The second part of the draft concerns active labour market measures and subsidy and scholarship rates. They are harmonised in different laws. So this is a very positive bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-24_U15	Honourable waitress! Thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There are no negotiating requests. We shall proceed to the examination of the 128 amendments to the draft. Six proposals have been received, all from the lead commission. First, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth proposals. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading must be completed. The second reading is closed and the first item is closed. Good fellows! There are no other items on the agenda. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
