ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the eighth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. I request the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic of Estonia today initiates the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Ukraine. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted a bill. If the bill complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board will decide on the procedure within one working day. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them: the Estonian Central Party Group. a draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, initiated on 1 June, of which the commission is the Committee on Social Affairs; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. a § 222 of the Social Welfare Act, initiated on 1 June, is a draft law whose commission is the Social Affairs Committee; the Estonian Central Party faction. a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 2 June, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 2 June, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's communication on migration to the European Union Committee on European Union Affairs and appointed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to express its opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the communication on migration. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 16 June at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 2 June, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's Green Paper The EU Framework for Corporate Governance to the European Union Committee and appointed the Legal Committee to express its opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 16 June at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the draft law amending the Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic by the deadline for submitting documents on the basis of the second reading. June 7th at 6 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to the agenda. You have the agenda on your desks, but here's a change. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the commission that agenda item No 8 of 8 June of this working week, second reading of draft 9 be made the fourth item on the same day. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu agrees with the proposal of the lead committee. Just now I received such a message: 'Dear Bureau! The Social Democratic Party Group proposes that item 3 on the Thursday agenda be raised to item 1 on the same day. This would be polite to the President of the Supreme Court by the Riigikogu. ' Ladies and gentlemen, If you agree, I will put this week's agenda to the vote with these improvements. Please, Mr Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U4	Thank you. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance disagrees.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U5	Then the last point I've given you will come off. Right now, I'm voting on this week... Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! What does 'last point' mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U7	I'm sorry! I said this on the proposal of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I'm sorry! Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U8	I also ask for procedural clarification. People's ambassador Reinsalu didn't say what he didn't agree with.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U9	Ambassador Reinsalu meant that he did not agree that Märt Rask's report would be presented as the first point. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on this week's agenda... Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U10	Yeah, but Reinsalu didn't say that. How do you know that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U11	I made contact with him. [[Let's hear it.]] Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof! Is it a procedural question? No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on this week's agenda. Please vote! 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of approving the agenda, 30 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U12	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item on today's agenda is Marianne Mikko, Indrek Saare, Andres Anvelt, Karel Rüütli, Kajar Lemberi, Sven Mikeri and Helmen Küti on 2 May s. a request for information on the number of cases of close relationship violence as a criminal offence. Marianne Mikko to the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U13	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I recently read about a man who was angry at a woman when she dared to change the TV channel. The man put his hands in motion and smashed her arm. This event took place in eastern Saudi Arabia, where the lack of women's rights is generally known. However, unfortunately, similar events are taking place in Estonia. Toivo Kuldmäe, the author of the question, has also caused serious injuries to his wife and child because of the television remote. Many cases of violence against women in the Third World are linked by the fact that they have taken place in rural villages and the fist or knife hero is illiterate. One might assume that an educated person does not resolve conflicts with his fists. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The unstoppable beater on Gold Mountain has a higher education. Joakim Helenius has told the press that he did not know anything about the case pending at the time of the promotion to the chairman of the Supreme Court of Toivo Kuldmäe. Unfortunately, for the Western cultural space, the elementary distance from a violent person to Estonia is not general. We have entrepreneurs who do not see a problem when a criminally sanctioned perpetrator is hired to run the company. For them, it is not a problem if the criminal face of the company continues its way of life and is reinvestigated. They do not understand that by taking such steps they are signalling to society that such behaviour deserves approval and does not mean exclusion from the economic elite. The request of the prosecutor of the Western District Prosecutor's Office to close the proceedings in the case of Toivo Kuldmäe on the grounds that there is a conflict within the family, that there is no public procedural interest, is also a symbol for society. The Minister of Justice has agreed with the Minister of the Interior that the fight against the crimes of close relationship violence is a priority in their actions. Unfortunately, as the above events show, this view is not even shared by the prosecutor's office and court under the administration of the Ministry of Justice. Or is it because prosecutors, judges and other public officials do not understand the importance of the issue and need training? You know, Estonia is no longer a closed society. Happily, too, we have become increasingly aware that domestic violence is not a family matter, that beating up a child and a woman is not a man's act. This was illustrated by the media coverage of the Golden Mountain case and the public's reaction to it. Following an inquiry to the Minister for Justice of the Socialists about domestic violence, the Open Women's Centre of Tähtvere launched an action. Postcards were sent to the Minister of Justice, saying 'Violence is not a family matter'. These postcards collected hundreds of signatures from all over Estonia in a short time. How many more of these actions should be initiated and how many people should join them so that the Ministry of Justice and the prosecutor's office go from words to actions? When will a breakthrough also come in the attitude of our politicians and entrepreneurs to declare couples who cannot cope with the peaceful resolution of family problems? On the basis of the above, we have put four questions to the Minister of Justice, which I am not going to repeat at this time. We expect a substantive answer to them, but above all, we expect practical action to put an end to the violence. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U14	Thank you very much, Mr Mikko. Kristen Michal, Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U15	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Before I begin to answer the questions asked, I will address the recent past. I would remind you that almost a year ago, the Riigikogu approved developments in criminal policy in this very hall until 2018, which explicitly states that in order to ensure security in society, attention must also be paid to preventing and responding to domestic violence. Domestic violence has been in the picture lately, both in the press and in social media. No public authority can overlook a problem that is so acutely pictured in society. Now to the questions. The first question: "For the Ministry of Justice, is the fight against close-relationship violence still a priority? ' If you try to answer briefly, the answer is that dealing with domestic violence remains a priority and not only for the Ministry of Justice, but also for other ministries, public authorities, local authorities and non-profit organisations. If a bit longer is to be answered, it must be said that last spring the Government of the Republic approved the development plan for reducing violence for 2010/2014. It sets out, inter alia, concrete steps to be taken in the coming years to prevent domestic violence, to help victims and to deal with perpetrators. In addition to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Police and Border Guard Board and civil society associations are responsible for these activities. Victims are subject to a high level of attention across Europe. In May, the European Commission put forward proposals that create a common basis for victim protection in the European Union, so that victims can be sure that they will receive assistance and support if they become victims of a crime in any country of the European Union. More specifically about what the Ministry of Justice has done to reduce domestic violence, for example, a practical handbook is currently being prepared to provide advice on how to identify and help the victim of domestic violence. According to the original plan, the guide material was intended for specialists in local governments, but during the discussions it has been realised that it could be intended for a much larger target group. The guide material is based on a study commissioned from the University of Tartu, which identified the risks that contributed to the spread of domestic violence. In order to get a more adequate picture of domestic violence and to better plan measures to reduce it, we are planning to carry out an analysis of domestic killings in the near future and analyse behaviour in a situation where a potential victim of violence appears in the medical institution. It is important whether and where information about the victim, how the victim is helped, whether information about asylum or victim assistance is shared with him, etc. As I have already mentioned, the manual is being drafted. On May 20 there was an initial discussion, with sociologists from the University of Tartu, representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Police and Border Guard Board, Asylums, Women's Associations, Tallinn Health College, Neighborhood Watch and local authorities, and many others. We agreed that the University of Tartu will complement this guide, and by August we will expect everyone to comment on the revised version of the University of Tartu. Why are we doing this for so long? Instead of a guide for social workers, it has been proposed to draw up a larger handbook with recommendations and advice for, for example, school support staff, because they are the ones who notice the abused child first, for family doctors, for local constables, but also for the victims themselves, so that they know how they can help themselves and who they can turn to with their concerns. The Neighborhood Watch representative proposed supplementing the handbook with neighbour's rights and obligations, for example, with the response of a person who hears that a family dispute is taking place next door. If everything goes well, we'll put this guide on the web in August and make it public. We have also been actively involved in the preparation of the Protection Order Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The purpose of the cross-border protection order is that the protection granted to a person by a protection order in one Member State should continue to be guaranteed in the other Member States to which the person is moving. It is in the interests of the victim to deal with what has happened as quickly as possible and to speed up the procedure as one of the priorities of the Ministry of Justice in the near future. Developments in criminal policy aim that the pre-trial procedure should not exceed three months in the case of a criminal offence against a minor victim. Currently, cases involving minors are dealt with in pre-trial proceedings for an average of 4.8 months, 3.3 months in the police and 1.5 months in the prosecutor's office. At the same time, physical abuse, where the victim is a minor, often cases of domestic violence, is dealt with in 4.6 months. In September this year, amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will help to ensure that cases are processed within a reasonable period of time, will help to shorten the average court proceedings. For example, one of the parties to the proceedings may request the court to take appropriate measures to put an end to the case as soon as possible if the case has been before the court for at least nine months. However, I am pleased to note today that last year, one in four cases of physical abuse was only dealt with in court for a few days. The average court proceedings in matters of physical abuse lasted almost three months, but the length of that period was extended by a single procedure lasting more than three years. As far as the actual work with the perpetrators of violence is concerned, a rehabilitation programme has been set up for family-violence perpetrators convicted of violent crimes. It will be implemented in both the probation system and the prison system from the autumn of this year. The second question: Have the judges and prosecutors in office completed training on the specifics of close relationship violence and, if not, what is the Ministry of Justice planning to do to fill this gap? ' Prosecutors and judges regularly complement themselves. For example, they have participated in training on gender equality. Since 2009, seminars organised for prosecutors and judges deal with issues such as discrimination, harassment, reconciliation of working, private and family life. The literature on domestic violence highlights the potential impact of social and gender roles as well as reconciliation of work and family life, including for women suffering from domestic violence, who as a victim often do not dare to break out of the circle of violence. Seminars also talk about the content of directives, as interpreted by the Court of Justice from the point of view of its case law, in order to give practical advice and recommendations to our judges and prosecutors. As participation in external training is often costly and therefore few participants are involved, we have introduced separate activities related to training professionals into the development plan for reducing violence. Among others, training is provided for prosecutors and judges. It should simply be borne in mind that, in addition, it is very important to focus on those specialists who are already exposed to victims before the formal procedure begins. For example, last year's principles on the response to cases of domestic violence, as approved by the Police and Border Guard Board, also address the options for advice and protection that should be presented to the victim by the police. The latest victim study showed people don't like to call the police. Unfortunately, this trend is negative. While in 2004 72% of the victims were reported to the police, the latter reported 77% of these people. Most victims say that the case was not serious enough. Personally, I believe that the principle of being safe rather than sorry should be taken into account. In any case, you should let the police know. Practice shows that there is always some serious injury or even fatal violence in court proceedings, the files of which show that the victim turned to the police too late. Certainly, victims should not receive help only when the matter has reached the court. Ideally, violence should be put to the point as early as possible, but this often means advising and training victims so that they are aware of the opportunities offered, for example, by victim support workers, shelters, as well as social workers and child protection professionals who can be approached with concern. The Ministry of Social Affairs plans to review and analyse the training programme for child protection, social and health workers, for example, in order to improve the response of specialists to cases of violence in relation to victims of domestic violence. Question 3: "Is there, as a rule, a lack of public interest in the case of secondary offences committed in close relations, or is there no public interest in cases where the perpetrator is a respected entrepreneur? " As for the specific case referred to in the inquiry, as I have said earlier, it was certainly not a matter of mildness, but of the collapsing of the worst circumstances. The prosecutors certainly do not take into account the existence or absence of a public interest on the grounds of the social status of the perpetrator. The Ministry of Justice also has no reason to believe that prosecutors are biased or subjective in the performance of their duties. I consider it important to stress that the role of the prosecutor in making procedural decisions is to take account of the interests of the victim. The Head of the State Attorney General has also imposed certain restrictions on prosecutors in cases of domestic violence to bring the proceedings to an end, for example when there is repeated violence or when children are involved in the case. When assessing repetition, the prosecutor shall consider whether the termination of proceedings against a person who has previously been punished will help to prevent further crimes. Question 4: "In the light of the decisions of the Western District Prosecutor's Office, can you expect the Ministry under your leadership to be decriminalised soon in cases where the victim did not die or lose his or her full capacity to work? ' The Ministry of Justice does not plan or consider the decriminalisation of any of the acts of violence currently contained in the Penal Code. However, as regards the general criticism of overcriminalisation, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the University of Tartu, is conducting a review of penal law, which analyses the constituent elements of the provisions of the Penal Code and the penalty rates, including their suitability, systemicity and proportionality. With regard to the results of this review, I can say something more specifically at the end of this year. Finally. We have received the postcards referred to by the author of the inquiry. I have personally signed all the answers sent to people whose name and address were on the postcard. I thank them for their support for the justice system, for the whole legal system and for law enforcement, for the principle that no case of violence must be overlooked. These cases are being dealt with completely seriously. Thanks for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U16	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. You have questions. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U17	Thank you. Dear Minister, Our laws do not regulate interinstitutional cooperation in cases of domestic violence and abuse, such as cooperation between police, medical workers, child protection workers, social workers and local authorities. Studies show that educators often do not know what to do when they feel that there is something very wrong in the child's home. It has not been said who has the obligations and rights to interfere with family life in order to protect people's fundamental right to life and health protection. That is my question: what are the steps you are going to take to ensure that those in need are not left between the various institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U18	Thank you. I don't think it's quite as black or as white as you describe it, that the victims will fall between the institutions somewhere. Actually, that's not really the case. However, as I referred to at the beginning of the reply, we are planning to produce the guidance material that we are currently doing with the University of Tartu. That should in some ways be the answer to your question. It contributes to the ability to identify and assist the victim and to clarify the rights and obligations of someone. As I said, there will be proposals for this. For example, the same neighborhood watch representative's suggestion of how neighbors should behave when a family dispute is heard from the next apartment. That's what we do. If you have any good ideas or suggestions, we are open to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U19	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. From your reply to the inquiry, I understood that dealing with the crimes of close relationship violence is a priority of the Estonian legal system. How, then, can a probationary sentence not be enforced if a person convicted of beating up family members repeatedly commits similar acts against the same persons during the probationary period? Do you intend to avoid such things in the future during your term of office?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U21	Thank you. I think it is more generally a question of the legal system. I don't think it's your expectation either that the Minister of Justice gets involved in the work of the prosecutor's office and the courts. I don't think you're proposing that. The rest of the answers we have actually given to the public. In my opinion, in this case, as I have said, I know a little more about it than I can publish here, but clearly it is a coincidence of bad circumstances. At present, special attention is paid to matters relating to minors, for example, and the speed of the procedure has increased considerably. I daresay this wouldn't be possible right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U22	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U23	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I have a very specific question. The Council of Europe is s. a Convention on combating violence against women and domestic violence. It has already been signed by 13 European countries, including us, as they say, the legal sister countries Germany and Finland. This convention creates a legal framework against domestic violence in all its forms, so that it can be prevented, the perpetrators held accountable and the violence eliminated. The Convention has been developed on the basis of well-founded approaches and practices across Europe. It is legally binding on States Parties, including an international monitoring mechanism. But the question is very simple: whether and when does Estonia intend to sign the Convention in order to ensure that we too have the protection of these European values?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U24	I guess these values are one way or another common. An analysis of this convention is already underway. This analysis has been carried out at the Ministry of Justice, and this analysis is, as far as I know, ongoing at the Ministry of Social Affairs. I think the analysis will reveal when and how we can join it. The ideas deriving from this Convention mean additions to the Penal Code. Punishment review is underway. We'll take a look at that in that light. I have said this before, and I still think it is right that an analysis should be in place before the laws are made, not so that we join together first, we do the laws, and only then will the analysis follow. The analysis may follow, but it has to be first. I hope that the analysis will be carried out and then we can say what Estonia's exact position is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U25	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U26	My question continues on the subject of the convention mentioned by Ambassador Anvelt. The Convention states that any conciliation procedure is unacceptable in all cases of violence against women. In very many European countries, in cases of domestic violence, conciliation is excluded because the parties are in an unequal position of power. In the Gold Mountain case, we saw that the court offered the parties conciliation, even though it was repeated violence for years. The conciliation procedure may be applied in accordance with Estonian law if the circumstances of the secondary offence are clear, there is no public procedural interest and there is the consent of the parties. As the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Justice last year shows, Estonia has been sending about 60% of criminal matters to conciliation since 2007...
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U27	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U28	Okay! How does the Minister of Justice interpret statistics that 60% of criminal cases sent to conciliation involve domestic violence, and is there really no public procedural interest in cases of domestic violence?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U29	One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U30	There is certainly no lack of public procedural interest in cases of domestic violence. Like I said before, you don't want to get stuck in a case. In this case, it was rather a coincidence of bad circumstances, which did not reflect the general practice. As I pointed out before in my oral and also in my written reply, the same statistics describe how quickly these matters are dealt with. As far as the conciliation procedure is concerned more generally, there are, of course, different positions. The same convention that you are referring to requires, in my opinion (I say in memory), for example, that the composition of mental violence be recorded in some way. Studies have found that men are usually victims of mental violence. So I can't tell which position is more unequal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U31	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! There is a lot of talk about the legal regulation of same-sex cohabitation. When same - sexes live together and, in an unknown way, they also raise children, this life together is very suspiciously reminiscent of the family. Such a life together can also be violent. Do your fancy programs and manuals also address violence in cohabitation with your genders, such as family violence, and do your programmes and manuals also include recommendations for the same sexes and corresponding measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U33	Thank you for this rather cheerful question. But our programs and manuals have so far been quite gender-neutral, without considering how all of this could take place. Perhaps sex is not as important in this matter as it (it was described by the heirs) what the relationship is, how violence can be traced as soon as possible and how victims can understand their rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U34	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In several countries of the European Union, domestic violence is listed separately in the Penal Code. Such countries are Norway, Sweden, Poland and Portugal, for example. In many countries, domestic violence against a partner, family member or former family member is an aggravating factor. The UN CEDAW Committee has also repeatedly recommended Estonia to adopt an anti-family violence law. What is your personal view of the need for this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U36	Thank you. Like I said, we're in the middle of a criminal law review. I have already touched on this issue briefly in the Riigikogu committees, because it has been asked about. In the course of this review, we can look at it. If both the legislator and society have the opinion that domestic violence should be described in a separate composition somewhere, then it can be discussed. If it is found that there is no need for it or that it is covered by existing formations, there is no reason to supplement the Code. Now, however, violence is covered. You don't think domestic violence is a private matter. I'm sure it isn't. The police react, the prosecutor's office and the courts are dealing with this in no way uncovered area. But if there's a need for this law, we can still discuss it. I don't want to say anything before the analysis, otherwise there's no point in doing the analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U37	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Recently, there was a charity campaign for women's shelters. The campaign revealed that the second largest group of women in the shelter are married to military personnel, police officers, and other members of the force structure. If you are aware of this, have you thought about how to protect these women?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U39	Thank you. I'll be honest with you, I haven't been in this office in so long that I've had that kind of information. That's very interesting information. I'm sure the people in our house, the specialists who deal with the subject of shelters, are aware of the matter. I'll go over it and pay attention to it. That's interesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U40	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! In fact, anyone who has been in contact with domestic violence, for example, knows very well that in order to go to the police, the victim of domestic violence must be a very courageous person. What favors reconciliation is fear. Because if a woman is complaining about her husband, she'll have to live with that husband for quite a few months before it comes to trial. How do you judge our laws from this point of view? Is there also a plan to do something to increase the security of victims of domestic violence, so that they can turn to competent bodies, for example, to protect themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U42	It's something that's being dealt with all the time. The same work that the justice system is doing (and not just the justice system, in fact the Ministry of Social Affairs is doing it the same) is intended that the victim knows his rights and that the surrounding people do not consider this violence to be normal. The police react much better than they did before. The police have also been trained accordingly. In particular, matters relating to minors are dealt with much more quickly by the prosecutor's office. These things have not been overlooked by the law enforcement system or by law. Rather, it is a matter of society. Often, domestic violence is a covert crime that few people see. Then the question is whether they are reacting to whether they are saying that what is happening is not normal. I rather hope that society's general awareness will be greater and that it will be a more stringent attitude towards all forms of violence, either domestic violence or school violence, even the ill-treatment of children. We don't have to think it's normal. It should not be assumed that justice, honesty and goodness are somehow reserved for the justice system. It's not like that, it's all human and it's their inalienable property.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U43	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U44	Thanks to the manager! Good minister! The Estonian Penal Code provides for punishment for exhibiting a work promoting violence or cruelty to a minor or, for example, for torture of an animal in front of a minor, etc. At the same time, children often witness their parents being beaten in their homes, but this is not even an aggravating factor. This, for example, is not taken into account by the court when determining the custody of the child. In court, the child has basically a duty to meet a violent parent. Do you think that a child's presence in cases of family violence should make punishment an aggravating circumstance and should this also be taken into account in the case of divorce, for example, when determining custody?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U45	Thank you. As I said before, we are in the middle of a review of penal law. You can't say no to these things until the audit. This review is carried out by the people of the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the University of Tartu and involves many other specialists. We will wait for this result and then we will be able to talk about the formations of the crime. I think that legislators have the right to make their proposals. I think it's important that violence, as such, be punished. There has certainly been a move towards less tolerance for violence. But I, too, have read recent studies on violence, and there is a clear negative line: who has ever been the victim of violence or who has itself been the cause of it, it tends to reproduce violence. You're right about that. I don't know if it should be in the Penal Code, but the attitude and principle must be observed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U46	Please, Mr Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U47	Regrettably, this topic is very topical in Estonia. Any debate that reduces domestic violence and minimises its damage is certainly necessary. But in all such discussions, the question is also about how much we can protect children who grow in these families in later discussions. When we talk about the subject and the problem in general and then try to find solutions, everything seems appropriate. However, if we once again highlight this particular family and these children, we will report the case in the press using a specific family example, is there no danger that we will again harm these children and that the interests of the children will not be protected? Does the Ministry also have any good practice of protecting children in such circumstances so as not to overexploitation them?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U48	Thank you. That's a very good question. In my opinion, this is actually a question of the media's self-regulation capacity. In cases of violence in the media, it should always be based primarily on the fact that the interests of the victim are protected as best as possible. I think it is also the task of the media not to open those wounds that it should not open. In a sense, it also concerns today's question of understanding, which I will answer. The Ministry of Justice is planning to implement the development plan for reducing violence, but the questioning is due to a case that was widely reflected. So it's hard to say. I think that it is right that the media reflect these points of social life, but certainly the media should be careful not to hurt the victims again and to behave politely. In my opinion, more high-quality publications often also choose what they publish, for example, the names of the victims will be changed. This is a step forward in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U49	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U50	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Women as victims have been spoken of here, and even homosexual marriages have been touched. But men's lives are known to be shorter than women, they work much harder than women, they are separated from children because of divorce, and there is also the mental violence you mentioned. What programs are there to protect men, and what is your opinion, aren't men left here in the role of orphan and beating boy?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U51	Thank you. I don't think men have left the role of beating boy. Studies show that men tend to use more physical violence against women and women to use more mental violence against men. Although I have also seen studies that show that women use lighter physical violence more often against men. It's, I don't know, maybe on a slap level. I don't think either sex would have left the role of an orphan. You could speak for both sexes, but it is generally clear that serious physical violence still poses a greater risk to women. Perhaps in this sense, more women are being dealt with in a positive way. But surely men will not be left unprotected if it turns out that they are being subjected to violence, regardless of the form of their life together.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U52	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U53	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm going to specify Yana Toom's question because you've answered more on the other side of it. The question is, if there is a conflict, there is also a statement, but it may be six months before one or the other decision is taken in court. However, at this time, violence may continue, and this may happen, so I am not talking about which side of the problem caused it, that in a month's time, for example, this statement has been withdrawn and nothing has happened. The question is this: can the procedure be amended to deal with such cases as a matter of urgency, not in the overall order, or, say, in six months' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U54	Thank you. The cases of violence, I think, are being handled quite quickly. They're not gonna get dust on the corner of the table. Of course, as I said before, these same studies show that the victims often do not report to the police in time. That is the same thing that was referred to in one question as being afraid of the recurrence of violence or the belief that violence was too trivial. I see the issue here, above all, of people's attitudes and self-esteem and perhaps, in some ways, of society's attitudes. If there is a view in society that violence and violence are not normal, then I think that these reports will come faster and people will act in a much more straightforward way. Well, that's a bit of an attitude issue. There are certainly also solutions for cases of violence and the need to separate spouses or partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U55	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U56	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! First of all, I would like to say that the development of the Council of Europe Convention lasted for quite a few years and that an Estonian representative also participated (I hope you know) there. In fact, an analysis of the legal system and Estonian laws was carried out while Estonia participated in this working group. So today, to say that we cannot join the Convention, because we need to examine our laws once more, it is not quite true. In fact, we have already formed our positions when we proposed the Convention. But I have a specific question for the good minister. We do not have enough statistics on this, but we hope that the statistics will continue to evolve. Is it possible that a husband and wife could be raped?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U57	Thank you. First of all, I will respond to this point, which perhaps was not a question. In fact, this kind of analysis is taking place. Providing one view does not mean that this analysis should not be carried out for all expenditure and for all measures. That's for the record. Secondly, as far as sexual crimes are concerned, they are in exactly the same way in the Penal Code. In the course of this same review, we can look at all possible compositions, including in relation to this Convention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U58	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I will open negotiations and call my colleague Marianne Mikko to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U59	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I am sorry that domestic violence as a problem has not been felt sufficiently seriously in society. Look at what has happened to our hall: our ranks are thinned and, in particular, it is noted among the delegates of the government coalition. At the same time, I welcome the efforts of the Minister of Justice to combat domestic violence. Please note: the Minister responded to the Social Democrats' inquiry on-line for an unprecedented period of two hours. Well, there are two types of ministers: those who are on the road, looking for and finding solutions to problems, and others who are jogging after events. I very much hope that we are dealing with the Minister of Justice of the first group and that his concrete actions will put a stop to domestic violence in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U60	Thank you. My colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U61	Mr President, Minister for Justice and Officials. It is high time we started to view domestic violence as a protection of public interests, not as a protection of private and family interests. We have a good opportunity to take into account the experience of tens of years in other countries, both in legislation and in practical measures. After all, violence is a mechanism for establishing power and control. Such consistent and purposeful behaviour has a very far-reaching social impact in relationships between couples and families. Firstly, all violence concerns the victim's deepest self-definition and human dignity, leading to a loss of self-esteem, a loss of confidence, and not to mention the emergence of health and mental disorders. If people, including women or girls, have a lower self-esteem than average, lose their self-esteem and live under fear, then we should not expect them or their children to grow up to be courageous, confident, entrepreneurial people who respect themselves and others' dignity. Violence against women therefore hampers the development of society as a whole. The Minister of Justice could set a good example in drawing up strategies, analyse and assess how one or the other course of action affects the situation of women and men in society. After all, the legal provision adopted in this Chamber is mandatory for all public authorities. It does not need to be a rocket scientist to understand: boys and girls, women and men behave differently, they behave differently, both as criminals and as victims. In many respects, this behaviour has to do with the expectations of gender roles that society sets before them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U62	Thank you very much, Mr Pikhof. Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U63	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Why did I ask the Minister of Justice such a strange or at least unexpected question? To clarify how diverse the debate has been around the new Council of Europe Convention. The Council of Europe's group of activists, which consisted mainly of women, but also had very active male members of the British Parliament, took up this issue in the Council of Europe. As a result, governments also came with it at the level of the Council of Ministers. Very painful issues were taken up, such as whether the violence within the family and between spouses could be defined by law as rape. From quite a number of countries, such a general and nice answer came as Estonia did, that of course their laws provide for it. I'm sorry to get so detailed, but it's still pretty hard to prove what 'no' means 'no' for people sleeping in a marriage bed. There are quite a number of such examples. I am extremely pleased that this convention has been written on paper. There were many disputes about it over the years, and Estonia participated actively in them. I sincerely hope that the pretext that we need to renegotiate all the laws does not mean that we will finally say that this is all right in our legal system. In the tables of the Council of Europe we are, politely speaking, unfortunately at Asian level. We cannot compare ourselves with the European countries that set an example for us. For almost everything, we say that we do not need separate regulation. Our usual wording that all the provisions of the legislation extend to all groups in the same way is not enough here. There has been a lot of talk here about women and men, but a very painful subject is also children, especially teenagers. Unfortunately, or fortunately, enough research has been carried out to show a very sad tendency. In fact, when teenage boys see a constant relationship with violence, they develop two very painful life models. One very sad model may be that they feel that violence against women is accepted and that father's behaviour is all right. If a mother or boy's future wife doesn't know how to cook soup, she'll have to be punched for it. There is another tendency, it is a so-called complex. They may experience a complete mental trauma by knowing that they could not protect their mother from violence. Both options show that male children can go through it even more severely than girls suffering from partial violence. This general wording, which the Council of Europe has also proposed, that all crimes are punishable by criminal law, sexual violence can be proven, etc., is not enough, because life shows that this is not the case. Our statistics are evolving and we are increasingly able to collect data on actual cases. Statistics show that, in fact, the situation in Estonia is rather poor. Lastly, on the detection of cases of violence, fortunately teachers' awareness has increased considerably. We can give examples of this. The teacher says he sees there's a problem, but he doesn't know what to do. At least he raises the issue when talking to a social worker or, for example, a family doctor. But in the case of preschoolers, violence often goes undetected. We should increasingly think together about what we can do for children who are victims of constant violence and are not yet of school age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U64	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U65	Let's go to the next question. This is the members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, Indrek Saare, Helmen Küti, Andres Anvelt, Kalev Kotkas, Urve Palo, Marianne Mikko and Karel Rüütli on 18 May s. a request for information concerning compliance by the Government of the Republic with the legal requirements. My colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U66	Mr President, Minister for Justice and Officials. The development of justice policy until 2018 has highlighted the need to ensure the constitutional rights and freedoms of everyone, to increase the coherence of society and the effectiveness of the legal system. There is also provision for a systematic focus on legal awareness. It should become regular by the end of 2013. At the same time, it allows the identification of legal awareness indicators that will be subject to continuous monitoring. Measurement problems arise when measuring any awareness. As one of them, the question of the period that determines regularity must be resolved. Hopefully, one indicator of legal awareness will also be whether the members of the Government of the Republic have acknowledged the obligations laid down in the Act to the Government of the Republic. Based on the current experience, the Estonian government's legal awareness measurement range is limited to a single election and government period as well as to a magical seven-year period. In particular, the Gender Equality Act adopted in 2004 provides for the creation of a collegial decisive body, the Gender Equality Council. Although the legal regulation for its operation - the Statute of the Gender Equality Council - was already adopted by the Government of the Republic by Regulation No 34 of February 2005, the Council has not yet been established. Seven countries and seas have also failed to fulfil another government obligation, an obligation to adopt a government regulation that would guide employers to analyse the situation of gender inequality and equality in their organisation. Thus, there is an outstanding obligation which is also provided for by law for the Government. This regulation of the Government of the Republic should help Estonian entrepreneurs to be competitive with companies from other Member States, not to mention its impact on the organisation's internal climate. On the basis of the above, we, the signatories, have three questions pursuant to § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U67	Thank you very much. Please, the Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U68	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! There are two questions that have come to my attention. You said there were three questions. You're asking the third one here. Got it. I thought I'd come here with the wrong material. But I will take my time to answer the two questions that have been asked me in writing, and then I will answer the third one later. The first question: 'What do you think is the length of one optimal period from which the rise in legal awareness should be measured? 'The measurement of legal awareness can take place in several ways. The organisation of the measurement depends on how precise the result is to be obtained, as well as on the number of legal areas under consideration. Information about people's rights is collected in three ways for the legislator. Firstly, following the entry into force of each act, ongoing monitoring will begin. During monitoring, the legislator collects feedback on the effectiveness of the act's entry into force. It will also assess legal awareness. Secondly, the Ministry of Justice and other ministries collect qualitative feedback on legal awareness in different areas of law in the course of their activities. This often takes place in conjunction with the identification of problem points. This information is based on the decisions taken in the development plans and work plans regarding future activities. In both cases, it is mainly based on qualitative information from expert judgements, focus groups, media analysis and comparison of general statistical indicators. The third type, the most comprehensive and the most widely described legal awareness measurement is carried out in an empirical study. Such a study is very time- and resource-intensive, as it requires a broad-based sample survey and subsequent time-intensive data analysis. Such a detailed measurement of legal awareness is not justified on an annual basis. Specialists at the Justice Department think the minimum time is five years. The Ministry of Justice looked at legal awareness in a survey of the legal awareness of Estonian residents completed in 2007. The study revealed that there is a difference in society between a group of people who are lagging behind, whose legal knowledge is very lacking. In order to improve overall legal awareness, it is important to provide knowledge to this critical group. This study is also available on our website. The second question: 'The rule, obviously because of his unfinished work, cannot be sent under any law to perform socially useful work, etc. As Minister of Justice, do you consider it important that the Government of the Republic abides by the law? " Surely the laws must be observed, and I am absolutely convinced that the Government of the Republic should also comply with them. But community service can also be done without getting into trouble with the law. So I call on all members of the Riigikogu to do socially useful work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U69	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Pikhof, the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U70	The development plan of the Ministry of Justice also includes the creation of the best legal order in the world as a legal policy objective. Is it limited to creating order or does it also mean implementing it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U71	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U72	Thank you, manager. One point to be clarified, Minister. Why has this Council, which my colleague asked about, not been set up? Is it even going to be created? I am thinking of the Gender Equality Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U73	Thank you. One, at least, of my own importance, as Minister for Justice, I have chosen that we should start to implement the same plan, in other words, in a simplified way, the creation of laws is preceded by the intention to develop and analyse. Here, the Ministry of Justice would be the leader, and we hope to be able to involve all other ministries with a positive example. I hope that the legislator will also think that this way could work. In fact, he has already found it in this very development plan. You can call it different names. I know it has been called good lawmaking practice and other beautiful names, but we are now using the term 'good lawmaking practice'. When laws are created in this way, I think we will become a country where people will have an overview of what is going to be done before the laws are passed and so-called a debate is reached. I believe that this will contribute to both the increase in legal awareness and the achievement of this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U74	Thank you. On this point, I do not know whether it is nice to say that it is not in any way a council with regard to the Ministry of Justice. We may ask why it has not been created, but it is not an area that concerns justice policy more generally. I don't think it's polite to point the finger at the Ministry whose job has not been done. But we can ask it over.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U75	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U76	The Act of the Government of the Republic nevertheless imposes an obligation on the Minister of Justice to monitor compliance with the law. Experience tells us that there are also certain routines: time limits are set to comply with the laws and ministries are set to comply with them. Finally, they have two options: either to comply with the law or to propose a legislative amendment. Let us talk, for example, about a specific Council. How can it be that it's over five years, even seven years without being created?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U77	I suppose there are objective reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U78	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U79	The next question is the members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kotkas, Neeme Suur, Sven Mikeri, Heljo Pikhofi, Andres Anvelt, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küti, Karel Rüütli, Rein Randver and Kajar Lemberi. a request for information on maintenance payments for land improvement systems submitted on 5 May. Mr Kalev Eagle, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U80	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The state has committed itself to maintaining economically important and strategic upstream flows in terms of drainage. The use of irrigated arable land of 386000 hectares and dehydrated forest land of 271000 hectares depends on this. In public care there are 5634 kilometres to the front, the maintenance of which has long been underfunded. The cost of work under construction is estimated by researchers at around EUR 10 million. The 2011 state budget has allocated EUR 600000 for maintenance work, which is allegedly five times less than necessary. It is difficult to require landowners to maintain proper drainage systems when the State itself fails to comply with its own commitments. It is not possible to reconstruct and maintain drainage systems without the renewal of common currents, during which sludges and beavers must be removed from water pipelines, brush cut, culpts and drainage routes must be reconstructed, sediment pools should be constructed where necessary, and slope insurance should be provided. In order to ensure that this problem does not reduce the area under cultivation or hamper the competitiveness of agricultural production on drained land, it is necessary to re-establish the financing of the public storage of collective currents of EUR 3,3 million per year. In order to give producers the certainty necessary to make investments and expand their production, the signatories have a total of four questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U81	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. Please, Minister of Agriculture, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U82	Good afternoon, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank the heirs for raising a very important issue and for their constructive questions. I will try to answer briefly and specifically. The first question: 'Do you think it is necessary and possible to increase the 2007-2013 budget? a MAK action 1.8 grants by another EUR 20 million? "The Ministry of Agriculture shares the view that rural development plan measure 1.8 "Agricultural and forestry infrastructure', i.e. essentially land improvement, is a major tool for maintaining agricultural and forestry infrastructure in operation and creates prerequisites for agricultural and forestry activities. For most RDP investment support, the problem so far has been the lack of money, but in the event of any available funds, they should certainly be directed towards measures that have excelled in the effective use of money, including measure 1.8. As all changes to the rural development plan must be approved by the European Commission, the coordination of the European Commission is also a prerequisite for possible funding. Measure 1.8 had an initial budget of EUR 35,4 million. On the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, it has already been increased by 6.39 million euros, or 100 million kroons, to 41.8 million euros. At present, EUR 31,9 million has been committed under Action 1.8, i.e. 76% of the budget has been committed and EUR 17,8 million have been disbursed, representing 56% of the liabilities taken over. The fifth call for proposals is planned at the beginning of October this year and has a budget of EUR 7 million, after which a further EUR 3 million would remain available for the action. As I said at the beginning, when money is released from other measures, the Ministry of Agriculture will direct this money to increase the land improvement measure. The second question: 'Do you see any solutions to restore the maintenance allowance for the land improvement system to EUR 2 million per year, the main objective of which is to support land improvement cooperatives in carrying out maintenance work and to reduce disparities in expenditure on agricultural production in both temperate and dehydrated countries? ' The proposal to re-implement maintenance support for the land improvement system was submitted to the Ministry of Finance in the framework of the preparation process of the State Budget Act 2012. We're in the middle of a negotiation. Under the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act, this could be paid, but only in the form of de minimis aid up to EUR 7500 per farmer for three years. The Ministry of Agriculture has requested EUR 1 million from the 2012 state budget for this purpose. The maintenance allowance for the land improvement system was introduced at a time when Estonia was not a member of the European Union and the European Union's state aid legislation did not yet apply. After accession, we were entitled to pay this allowance until 2006. Operating aid is currently the only option for de minimis aid. We would be entitled to do so on the basis of the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act. The possibility of this next year will depend on the negotiations on the 2012 state budget and its final outcome. In any case, the Ministry of Agriculture is prepared to re-implement it to the extent permitted and is interested in it. The third question: 'Have you considered cooperating between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture in order to maintain the upstream flows and to use resources for the remediation of water bodies from the KIC environmental programme? " We agree with the Ministry of the Environment that the conservation of land can also improve the ecological status of water bodies. Since 2003, the Foundation's Environmental Investment Centre has allocated nearly EUR 1.6 million to the organisation of the upstream flows, in particular within the framework of the Environmental Programme 'Renovation of Water Collections'. This results, for example, in a structured and close to nature stream and in a land-useable and well-managed land. This year the Estonian Agricultural Board also plans to apply for funding from the Cohesion Fund through KIK for the Sõmeru River in Lääne-Virumaa, in cooperation with Sõmeru, Vinni and Rägavere rural municipalities, and to receive funding from the environmental programme for the River of the Ship in Tartu County and to clean up the Kents reservoir. The preliminary projects have been commissioned by the Agricultural Office; the application documentation is not yet fully completed. Question 4: Will you support the continuation of Action 1.8 on Agriculture and Forestry Infrastructure in the EU budget period starting in 2014? ' Today it is still difficult to talk about rural development measures for the new financial period starting in 2014. According to current information, the draft European Union regulations on grants for the next period will be made public at the end of 2011. However, in view of the above, we certainly consider it important to contribute also in the next budgetary period to measures ensuring the availability of land as a farmer and a forest grower's main means of production. The preparations for the transition to the next budget period have started at the Ministry of Agriculture. We have started to describe the situation, to develop the principles of possible measures for the next budget period and to negotiate with the sector's umbrella organisations. I can confirm that if the legislation of the common agricultural policy for the next budgetary period allows a similar measure to be implemented in Estonia, we will certainly do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U83	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. First question, Mr Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, How do you think the State Forest Management Centre has managed to maintain the land improvement systems that they own and use and would it be useful to use their competence and capability to clean up the upstream currents?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U85	Thank you. I don't know if I'm the most competent person to assess how the State Forest Management Centre has done the land improvement. I think it's more or less satisfactory. Their main problem, too, is the lack of money. But I think that cooperation can also improve their activities, although I think that the problem in Estonia is not only the lack of money, but also the fragmentation of land ownership and land improvement systems crossing the borders of land ownership. Finding a common sense has also caused difficulties for farmers in many cases. I know that in many cases this has been a problem in applying for aid, so it has not been received to take advantage of the money that we already have. It is a very big problem that the size of land ownership and land improvement systems or water cooperatives do not overlap or that cooperatives have very different capacity, attitudes and interests. This problem is serious, but I understand that this issue of concern actually remains for decades. In time, property must be concentrated. This is, in my view, even more important than EUR 1.2 million, which we can add to the maintenance work, or investment grants for land improvement systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U86	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U87	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You rightly pointed out that there was a shortage of money. But when the money is scarce, it needs to be checked more about how the allocated money is used. There is a question for you, for example, of the problems of the Aardla polder, where the use of money was not the most appropriate. Is there any evidence that public supervision has penalised landowners either for inadequate maintenance of land improvement systems or for improper use of allocated funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U88	Yes, it is. There's an overview. I don't have it with me today, but you'll be able to get it in writing. If you're interested, we'll send it to you. That information is there. In the area of administration of the Ministry of Agriculture, supervision is mainly carried out by the Agricultural Office. All the protocols are in place and fixed, and when financial sanctions are applied, we have it all beautifully. I can assure you that there are relatively few violations and misuses, especially when it comes to unintended use of money. Estonia is different, I dare say, from most of the Member States of the European Union by the fact that we have had very correct use of the European Union's common agricultural policy grant and almost no refunds have been made to the European Commission. On the one hand, this recognition is for honest farmers, but on the other hand, it has certainly been helped by the very precise and rigorous work of the PRIA, which is often accused of, namely, excessive effort and rigour on the part of officials. I guess there's two ends. But the fact is that we are one of the best users of the money in the Member States, precisely in terms of specification. The assessment of what the effects are is already much more complicated. This is the mid-term review we will be doing at the end of this year and next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U89	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U90	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I believe that RMK will manage its issues well in the future. A few weeks ago, the coalition also put qualified people in there, right? They're specialists in the field, and they're working on it. But here's the question today. The same measure created quite good employment in rural areas for specific works. Do you have any information on how much this caused extra employment in the country, like the second round effect in addition to investments? How many people were actually used with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U91	Thank you. I can't tell you the number of jobs or how much that gave people extra work. It is true, however, that this additional work certainly provided, although the aim of this measure was not only to increase employment in itself, but, above all, to organise land and land improvement systems and to invest in land as a basic means of production for agricultural production. This has been the main objective and it will certainly remain that way. Employment is not the main objective here. However, in the context of employment, perhaps even more mention should be made of the maintenance measure, which involves cleaning, mowing, cutting, and so on, where there is quite a lot of manual physical work, which is not always possible with mechanisms. But I can't tell you the exact number of jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U92	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U93	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Not very long ago, farmers and farmers approached you about the difficult issue of the state of the land and the maintenance of land improvement systems, on which you responded through the media that you are familiar with this issue and the problem. There were two things that you also pointed out today: funding and agreements between them. Fragmentation is indeed a problem. One of the initiators of a legislative amendment can always be the Government of the Republic, the other can certainly be the Riigikogu. Has the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture planned any change to the law? For example, we are now trying to tackle the problem of private roads. In the event that someone does not maliciously want to maintain his land or has forgotten that he has land (I have personally been in contact with such), could there be a solution in such a situation, such as a forced obligation or a 'transfer' from private property?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U94	Thank you. This is a very difficult problem to solve. Landowners, whose land is part of a land improvement system, have very different financing capabilities, attitudes and attitudes, as well as different ambitions. There are landowners who do not plan the active use of their land, but simply keep it as real estate. We do not have such a good option as to solve problems quickly. There's a law. Within this framework, let's say, the situation is improving from year to year, but not fast enough. At present, the Ministry of Agriculture has not prepared any good draft legislation to resolve the situation that has arisen during the land, property and agricultural reform during the transition to a market economy. As I said, this problem will probably remain for years, because it is not conceivable that we can impose very forcefully on the law or apply expropriation to landowners. That would probably not be fair. This would not be the solution either, and I think it would be too much for the Estonian state. So, above all, solutions could be found within the framework of existing laws, in particular through positive motivation, i.e. the existence of the same investment and maintenance measures. If requested jointly, the taxpayer's money will be available for assistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U95	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U96	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You were talking about the oversight function. Perhaps you can specify the size of the team that is currently in charge of monitoring?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U97	Thank you. Supervision in the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture is mainly carried out by the Agricultural Office. We have a department in every county, and until the beginning of last year, independent land improvement offices worked there. We have merged the land improvement offices and the plant production inspection into the Agricultural Office. I think it was the right move in terms of perspective. These departments remained in the counties. Depending on the size of the county, there are two to three to seven to eight people working on land improvement issues. In addition, rural governments also have a certain obligation, which is an ethical problem in itself, since the country is usually represented by county elders in the land improvement cooperatives in their own county. The problem at the moment is that rural governments do not have the powers and means to carry out the so-called state representation in a competent and comprehensive manner, but the problem is also that if the Ministry of Agriculture does so, there will be a conflict of interest. On the one hand, the Ministry of Agriculture is a representative of the state, on the other hand, it must look after the land-repair cooperative in which it is a shareholder. To keep these functions separate, there is currently a situation in which certain functions are performed by the rural government and certain functions by the Ministry of Agriculture. If we find a better legal solution in the future, we want to resolve this situation in such a way that the entire remit is within the remit of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U98	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Kalev Eagle, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Sir, I'd like to thank you very much. The heirs were pleased to learn that the problem raised did not come as a surprise to the Ministry and that the search for solutions would be dealt with. All in all, the whole problem comes back to money, to say the least, the lack of money. When money is scarce, choices need to be made. It is important to stress that the maintenance of land improvement systems helps, as a'second round effect', improve employment in rural areas, encourages farmers to invest more in their production and increases the competitiveness of our farmers as a whole, not just the part that delivers to drained countries. As the problem is common to both forest and farmland, common solutions should be sought. It was good to hear that so-called inter-agency solutions in the form of a few projects are already underway. All we have to do is thank the Minister for his meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U100	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U101	We will go to the final question, namely the members of the Riigikogu Ester Tuiksoo, Inara Luise, Vladimir Velmani, Priit Toobali, Marika Tuusi, Mailis Repsi, Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnuhini, Valeri Korbi, Lauri Laasi, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendievi, Tarmo Tamme, Rainer Vakra, Viktor Vassilyev and Yana Toomi on 18 May. a request for information on the rise in food prices and the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Ester Tuiksoo, colleague of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Agriculture! The price increase in Estonia is one of the fastest among the Member States of the European Union. In their opinion, in the fight against price increases, the government should use two main instruments: reducing VAT on food products and ensuring fairer CAP conditions for Estonia in the new financial period starting in 2014. The most immediate increase is the cost of food for local residents. It is the responsibility of the Government, but especially of the Ministry of Agriculture, to encourage the supply of domestic food to local residents, including to protect consumers from unpleasant market distortions. This means that the state must protect its inhabitants from the unreasonable behaviour of the market. For a long time, the rise in food prices has increased linearly in Estonia. The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for planning a trade policy for agricultural products. Inquiries are interested in the effectiveness of the Ministry of Agriculture in creating a reasonable economic position for domestic production, where a reasonable balance needs to be struck between the producer and the consumer. The common agricultural policy of the European Union sets out a common framework for action. The new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) starts in 2014. Preliminary work must be done and a new agreement between the Member States on the CAP must come within the next year. The Estonian land entrepreneur expects more equal positions than before. Better and more equal financial conditions create opportunities for Estonian manufacturers to compete in both domestic and foreign markets. As we know, the Government of the Republic has offered a three-stage system of direct payments: basic support, additional support for higher environmental standards and additional support in areas with less favoured natural conditions. The countries have offered a variety of options on the basis of the basic subsidy. In relation to the above, the questioners have seven questions. We are grateful for the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U103	Thank you, colleague Ester Tuiksoo! Mr. Minister's speaking desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you again for the questions asked and I will try to answer. The first question: "What has the Government of the Republic meant by basic support, and how is it taken into account? " The debate on the future of the common agricultural policy of the European Union will be based on the Communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions entitled "Towards a common agricultural policy for 2020: Addressing food, natural resources and territorial challenges for the future' published on 18 November 2010. On the basis of the discussions to date, the basic payment is a key element of the future agricultural direct payment, which should be based on the assessment by society of the service provided to society by the farmer and must be as close as possible to the actual expenditure actually incurred to provide that service. It is important that the basic subsidy is as equal as possible, comparable and that the basis for its calculation is objective. The more precise calculation methodology and content of the basic support should be developed during the negotiations. Question 2: 'The Commission has proposed that rural measures need to be planned together with other Structural Funds to avoid duplication. What can joint programming actually lead to to the preservation of rural policy measures? Can rural support be diluted? ' In its communication on the future of the European Union budget, cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, the European Commission has indeed come up with the idea that the Cohesion Fund, the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Fisheries Fund could provide a common strategic framework for the next programming period. The aim of this framework is to strengthen cooperation and coherence between the different policies. As regards the concern about the preservation and dilution of rural development measures, it can be said to reassure the questioners that the European Union funds, in their current form, will remain and will continue to operate through separate operational programmes between which, according to the European Commission, funds cannot be reallocated. The effectiveness of rural measures therefore depends in particular on the agreements to be reached in the EU budget negotiations. For our part, we have advocated that, at European Union level, the CAP budget shifts more towards the rural development pillar. Question 3: 'Which countries do we have close or similar positions with regard to the 2014+ financial period, who are our allies? " Since discussions on the future of the financial period from 2014 are at a fairly early stage, most countries have not published a more ambitious approach to the principles. The positions are likely to be considerably more precise when the Commission puts forward legislative proposals. As a whole, the European Commission has introduced a number of ideas already proposed by Estonia in the early stages of the discussions in its communication. For example, the idea of layered direct payment comes from Estonian views. This also applies to the basic payment, which was the first question. In this sense, for example, we can also consider the Commission to be our ally. In our most important position on the harmonisation of support levels, our main supporters are those countries that also have lower than average direct payments and whose direct payments are based on historical reference periods. At the same time, the rest of the world does not generally dispute the principle of moving towards more uniform direct payments, which should be based on similar grounds. In the European Union, there is a rather large block of countries, including Estonia, which wants to focus primarily on innovation, competitiveness and market orientation. So it can be said that on matters that are important to us, we have many allies, but the end result is formed by finding a compromise in various ways of seeking a balance. In fact, different coalitions have emerged on different issues. As I said, with regard to the level of direct payments, there is a very clear difference between the Member States that are notionally new and old. But when we talk about innovation, about changing the CAP, about market orientation, here our ally block is made up of the so-called more liberal countries: Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, England, the Czech Republic. On the other side of the front line there are, in particular, the countries of southern Europe, which are not at all interested in changing the CAP and would rather like to maintain the current situation. These are Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece, as well as Finland. So there is such a division that there are different coalitions on different issues. Question 4: "What is the view of the Ministry of Agriculture on the reduction of VAT on food products? Is there a presumption that the farmer will immediately put the VAT element released into profit and that there will be no real price reduction for the consumer? ' One of the clear consequences of a reduction in the VAT rate is a reduction in the revenue of the state budget. If instead of 20%, for example, the VAT rate on food products would be 5%, then in view of the volume of retail sales in 2009, the revenues would fall to the state budget by 120 million euros, i.e. approximately 2 billion kroons. The potential impact on consumer prices is very difficult to predict. This is unlikely to result in a significant price decrease in the long term. I believe that lowering consumer prices, or also helping farmers to reduce VAT, is one of the most expensive and impractical measures to support consumers and farmers. Rather, it would make sense to collect these taxes in the form of VAT into the state budget and then to pay them out as subsidies on an ad hoc basis. In that case, we can be sure that the aid will reach the target precisely, then it will be the less insured population or the farmer. By simply granting a VAT concession, we cannot determine where and in what proportion this money actually remained either for the producer, the food industry, the wholesale trade, the retail trade or somebody else. We'll never know. This is also an issue in other Member States of the European Union. Personally, I am convinced that if we have a serious desire and willingness to help the producer and the consumer, this should be done by means of targeted subsidies, by collecting this money, rather than by means of a tax advantage which is difficult to administer and where there is an increased risk of tax fraud. Question 5: Could Estonia's lower direct payments compared to the old EU Member States also be reflected in the faster increase in the price of Estonian food? " The main reasons why food prices are rising are now as follows. Firstly, the increase in demand on the world market, the very favourable export economy for Estonia. In 2010, agricultural exports increased by 27% compared to 2009. In January and February this year, growth was even around 40% compared to a year ago. Secondly, there is certainly an increase in the prices of inputs, in particular energy and crude oil. Crude oil was 44% more expensive on the world market this year than in April last year. The price of maize has risen by more than 80% compared to last year. So the rise in the price of raw materials and inputs has certainly been one powerful reason. Thirdly, the use of agricultural raw materials for the production of bioenergy in the Member States of the European Union. As we know, the European Union has committed itself to increasing the production of renewable energy sources, which will certainly have an impact on food prices. Fourthly, last year's unfavourable weather in different regions of the world has certainly been one of the reasons for the rise in prices. It can be assumed that possible speculation on the markets, which have been discussed and whose impact is very difficult to assess, is also important, but their impact is certainly there. After all, we may have sensed this to some extent recently in Estonia, too, when sales were thrown out of European Union reserves, which were bought by intermediaries who, for their part, added the price and then sold these reserves to actual producers. However, the impact of direct payments on the rise in food prices can only be estimated indirectly on the basis of the available data. We have analysed producer prices in Member States with different levels of support, the share of primary raw materials in the retail price of food, the structure of income earned by the farmer, the proportion of subsidies and market revenue. In conclusion, both domestic and international factors affecting changes in the retail price of foodstuffs are very important and each of them is important in the overall change. However, it is difficult to confirm, on the basis of the available data, that the level of direct payments is decisive among these factors. The sixth question concerns the likelihood of greater equality of levels of support in the next financial period and whether the subsidies from the old Member States will be reduced or increased. Given the regional differences in support levels, both between Member States and within Member States, it can be expected that reaching full equality during the next financial period will be unlikely. At the same time, several Member States have expressed the view that differences should be reduced. The European Commission has also expressed the view that the total amount of support from Member States with a lower level of support should be increased and this should be done at the expense of a reduction in the amount of support from the Member States with the highest level of support. It is therefore likely that changes in support levels will be expected in countries with both higher and lower levels of support. Equality can only take place by redistribution, not by adding money. This makes it extremely difficult to reach agreements. So far, major reforms in the EU's common agricultural policy have been implemented through the allocation of additional funds, this time by means of redistribution. That makes it very difficult. In the last question, there is an interest in how the Ministry of Agriculture has fixed the status of farms and what is being done for them in the next financial period. There is an interest in waiting for additional measures to revitalise rural areas. Paragraph 4 of the Commercial Code provides, through the activity of the operator, for the definition of "farmer', according to which a farmer is an undertaking which has at least one activity in the production of agricultural products and which uses a farm for that purpose as owner, owner or tenant. At the same time, the Commercial Code does not determine the type of undertaking that a farmer should operate as a company or as a self-employed person. From the point of view of applying for aid, in particular, the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union and the Law on the organisation of the rural and agricultural markets and the legislation established on the basis thereof shall determine the number of persons entitled to apply for the aid provided for in those laws. In this respect, it should be noted that the legal status of the applicant is generally irrelevant, i.e. the type of undertaking the applicant acts as. However, it is possible to read certain emphasis in the communication on the CAP. From the point of view of farms, a number of positive trends can be found here. For example, it is discussed that small farmers should be made easier to obtain direct payments. For our part, we have expressed the view that farms play an important role in maintaining rural balance alongside large companies. In our view, the starting point for the application of the aid measures should not be the size of the farmer, the number of animals or the nature of the organisation of production. A farmer who lives in the territory of his own manufacturing company and uses basically family labour needs a different approach than a production company based mainly on wage work. We therefore consider it necessary to determine the status of farms and to distinguish the support measures for them from others. I can assure you that, in the next budget period, we will certainly want to continue all support measures specifically aimed at farms, this is a measure of the young farmer, a measure of the substitute farmer or any other measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U105	Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture. You have a lot of questions. Let's start with my colleague, Kadri Samson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U106	Thank you. Minister of Agriculture! I want to clarify your position on VAT on foodstuffs. Despite the fact that a very large number of countries in the European Union have a derogation from VAT on food, you consider it impractical. In your reply, you said that it would be better to collect money and then to distribute it as direct payments. In Estonia, as we know, VAT on all goods was increased by 2% two years ago. Can you tell me how much the state has received in addition to the VAT on food and where this money has gone in this two year period? As far as I know, no direct aid has increased during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U107	Thank you. I don't think I can tell you how much this 2% increase in VAT on food turnover brought to the state budget. However, CAP subsidies in the recent past and VAT increases are not one-to-one-to-one. The European Union has very clear rules on what can and cannot be done. The payment of the national top-up was also regulated at the time of accession to the European Union. Here we do not have the opportunity to support the farmer without limit. Yes, we have cut the top-up in the context of the austerity budget over the past few years, but I can assure you that, for example, in next year's budget, we are planning to pay it in full. I wouldn't tie these things directly to each other. However, I would like to confirm that I am convinced that supporting farmers and consumers with this tax credit is one of the most ineffective solutions. There are very different reasons why this has been done in several countries of the European Union. Mostly, if you look, it has been implemented before the elections. I believe that this is also a clear assessment of why this is being done. The tax credit is very easy to sell before the elections, and it is certainly popular, but it is not very effective. If we look at the value added tax (VAT) and food prices in the Member States of the European Union, we will see that there is no such correlation here that where there is lower VAT, there are also lower food prices. We cannot compare ourselves with Finns who have made quite a number of decisions in the recent past: once they have reduced the value added tax on foodstuffs, then raised, once they have introduced a sugar tax, then cancelled, and now they have introduced a sugar tax again. We are not comparable to Finns because, unlike Estonia, both the food industry and a significant part of trade belong to farmers in Finland. If this advantage is granted there, it is known that the farmer will in any case receive a share of this benefit, because he will withdraw this money either in trade or in the food industry, because he is the owner of the entire chain. There is a separate farmer in Estonia, a separate food industry and a separate trade. Here neither the food industry nor trade, usually through cooperatives, belong to farmers and this effect does not occur in this form. The situation of Finns is different. I think there are differences in each Member State. It is certainly unreasonable to apply it as such in Estonia's circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U108	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I'm asking from the point of view of the consumer. If you go to the store and get into the vegetable department, you will see that Estonia's agricultural production is twice, sometimes three times more expensive than the vegetable produced elsewhere. This, of course, limits the market share of Estonian production and also limits export opportunities. Please tell me if there is anything to be done to make Estonian agricultural production more competitive at the basic price.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U110	Thank you. Yes, of course it is. Our agricultural policy and the rural development plan, with its measures, are intended to increase the competitiveness of the Estonian agricultural sector. But why is it that Estonian vegetables are often more expensive than imported foreign fruits? First of all, objectively speaking, the cultivation of quite a number of cultures is more expensive in Estonia, due to our climate. But the second reason is certainly what has been said very much, that the levels of agricultural subsidies in the European Union are very different. The level of support for Estonian farmers is several times lower than for farmers in Western European countries. One of our clear aims and wishes is to equalise these levels of support. Thirdly, it must be acknowledged that there is no specific measure in the current rural development plan to support, for example, the vegetable sector. While it is possible for vegetable farmers to apply for support under other measures, we do not have a special measure specifically intended for this sector. We have realised that, for the next budgetary period, we will certainly have to develop a separate measure for both vegetable farmers and farmers operating in the covered area. That would be reasonable and fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U111	Please, colleague Marika Tuus!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U112	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said that if the government had a desire and a desire to contain the price increase, it would have to do this and the other. Has the government had the desire and will to limit price increases, and has this issue been discussed at government meetings? We know that the Prime Minister has said in this Chamber that it is not something they want to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U113	Thank you. The government has repeatedly discussed, and I would say that it is constantly discussing issues relating either to taxes or prices, whether they are high commodity prices, input prices or any other price. The government has not gotten over it or around it. But when it comes to price control, it is largely out of government's jurisdiction. These are still more general processes resulting from the situation in the global economy and the global market. Estonia's production volumes and market are so small that we do not have a special impact on this process. Nor do we have a strong impact on prices in our fiscal or budgetary policies. Prices still develop in the face of free competition. The best thing we can do is that we can't survive, that we try to keep the budget balanced, if possible, and not take over loans. We also see from other Member States of the European Union what such a policy can lead to in the long term. In this sense, our options are limited. The government has not discussed this in order to introduce administrative prices. As far as food is concerned, through the support policy, through the rural development plan, we have supported farmers as much as possible to be able to buy raw materials and fuel and go to the field. We have also made a flexible effort, through the Rural Promotion Foundation, to provide either spring sowing loans in the form of credit or guarantees. With such measures, we have tried to assist economic operators and producers. But the government has not really discussed administrative price regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U114	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U115	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I've been to Peipsi recently. Local farmers dream of opening up the Russian market to their cucumbers and onions sometime, because they cannot get rid of their crops now. When I go shopping in Tallinn, I see that Luunja's throat is several times more expensive than Brazil's mango. How does it even happen that, on the one hand, we have cucumbers and onions, on the other hand, they have become luxury goods in our shops?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U116	Thank you. When I answered the previous question, I briefly said what are the reasons that our vegetables are often more expensive. We can only grow cucumbers in Estonia during seasons or in a greenhouse, which is much more expensive than growing cucumbers where there is a warmer climate, so that it does not have to be done in a greenhouse, and where the growing time is much longer. But when it comes to opening up the Russian market, of course, it would be very necessary and attractive. In general, it can be said that as good trade with Russia as it has been in the last year-and-half, the Estonian food sector has not had since regaining independence in 1991. As much food trade as it has been in 2010-2011 has never been before. But you asked about the vegetables. In the light of recent events, for example, in view of the so-called Spanish cucumbers, Russia has banned the import of vegetables from all over the European Union. About 25% of the vegetables produced in the European Union were exported to Russia. This is a serious setback for European vegetable farmers. Russia's response is, in my view, completely inadequate and unjustified. This effect is likely to be felt in the near future. If vegetables farmers in the European Union lose out on the Russian market, it will probably find a market elsewhere, including within the European Union. This should lead to lower prices. So we hope that there will be something positive for consumers in this poor situation for producers.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U117	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, In answering questions from the heirs, you said that the impact of direct payments on the final price is very difficult to assess for food products. Now you said that high vegetable prices can be compensated by subsidies. There was now a slight contradiction. Perhaps you'd like to explain this more precisely so that the audience can understand better?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U119	Thank you. I'll try to repeat exactly what I said. The questioners also asked about the impact of direct payments on the price increase rather than the impact on the overall development of prices. The rapid price increase in recent years has perhaps been higher in Estonia than in several other Member States of the European Union. It asked what its impact and its relation to direct payments were. It is very difficult to find a link here, because direct payments, as you probably know, have increased year after year. That is what we have agreed with the European Union. They will also grow next year compared to this year. So the direct payments for agriculture that we receive from the European Union have increased steadily. There has been no reduction, except for a state contribution that has fluctuated. The impact of direct payments on price increases is very difficult to assess. However, there is an impact on the overall situation and the price level of agriculture, I dare say. The fact that our farmer receives much less support than a farmer in Western Europe makes our farmer's situation more difficult and certainly also affects prices, but the impact on price volatility is very difficult for me to assess.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U120	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I'm gonna start a little further away, and then I'm gonna come up with the main topic. A few days ago, I saw a TV show claiming that wheat had gone more radioactive than 30% in the last hundred years. There were no comparative data provided on how radioactive it was at the beginning of the last century and exactly how radioactive it is now, but this claim was quite vividly remembered. My question and essay is this: are you aware of the situation of Estonian wheat from this point of view? Will EU agriculture ministers discuss such matters? Coming back to Estonia: if the situation in the world is poor, maybe it is possible for Estonia to benefit from this, if our wheat is clean?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U122	Thank you. I cannot compare Estonia's current situation to that of a hundred years ago, taking into account the level of radiation in food, or even when talking about food contamination at all. Whether these methodologies are exactly comparable and whether we have such a time series, I can't tell you that right now. However, food safety is one of the most important elements of the European Union's agricultural policy. As we have seen in recent weeks, this is rightly very important. Let us remind you that only recently there was a major scandal in Germany due to dioxin contamination. There have been cases like this over and over again, despite the fact that the rules are very strict and cross-border and apply in the same way throughout the European Union. It's very important. I think that one response to today's intensive production is the production of "ecological" or organic food, which is really one of Estonia's possibilities and not just the opportunities of Estonia, but of all those regions where intensive production is not carried out as much as in areas with good agricultural land in Western Europe. I think that one of Estonia's untapped potentials is ecological and organic production in areas where soil fertility is not the best, but we could grow grass there, deserving of it through meat or milk, and doing so ecologically and mildly. These trends are now rapidly evolving in Estonia: the number of sheep and meat cattle is increasing, the number of organic animals as a whole is increasing, and the surface of organic production is also growing. We need to adjust the country's policy here, so that organic subsidies are aimed at more organic production, not just organic farming. There's a very big difference. That is certainly what we will do in the next financial period of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U123	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U124	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! In the Riigikogu, passion is fueled by a bill such as the draft law on the exemption of homeowners from land tax. The entry into force of this law would cost the State approximately 300 million kroons. As a minister, can you confirm that this promise will not have to be paid up by farmers if the percentage of land taxation is increased or an assessment is made on a regular basis? Doesn't a farmer have to pay for that promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U125	Thank you. I hope not, because it is the responsibility of local authorities to shape the price level of the land. I do not know what one or another local authority has planned for the near future for its income base in relation to land tax, but I am sure it will not be done without thinking and mechanistically making the loss of one type of income to be paid by other taxpayers. Government, coalition and I believe that the Riigikogu will certainly discuss how it is possible and best to compensate local governments for their declining income base. I think that if the economic situation of the Estonian state improves, then it is certain that local governments will be compensated for this decrease step by step and will also be compensated for the cuts that were made at the time the budgets were drawn up and which cut the income base of local governments. I think it's a reasonable way. In itself, the exemption from the housing tax is a very right and justified step. Only this law needs to be adopted as such so that it works and there are as few holes as possible that allow other options to be taken advantage of. I believe that to this end, both the coalition and the opposition should cooperate and further develop the draft sent from the government to Parliament and improve as much as possible. But the idea and the aim are, in my opinion, very correct. We see that it is primarily Estonian young families who are suffering from the burden of housing costs. There is certainly a question of urgency and many other questions. So it's generally right. I do not agree at all with these estimates that the housing market will somehow collapse as a result of this tax exemption and the price of the land will rise. On the contrary, I believe that if housing is taxed less or the tax is abolished from residential land at all, the property will become cheaper. This market is becoming more vibrant, this money is in people's hands, they can use it to buy housing. This will also improve the opportunities for young families and other families to obtain or develop housing.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U126	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. On Wednesday, 8 June, the Riigikogu will be the first reading of the draft law restricting the acquisition of immovable property. This bill seeks to eliminate restrictions on the purchase of land by foreigners. Have you analysed whether and how this step affects food prices and, if not, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U128	Thank you. We can talk more about that on Wednesday. No, this step certainly does not have the slightest impact on food prices. Because for a long time, since 1996, foreigners have had the opportunity to freely acquire agricultural and forest land in Estonia. There have been some bureaucratic obstacles, but there have been no substantive obstacles. Foreigners, both natural persons and legal persons, have acquired land in Estonia during this period. I think that the draft law that comes to the reading on Wednesday will have no effect on this market, nor will it affect food prices. But what I want to say is that the purpose of this draft is not to remove the restrictions on real estate, but to broadly achieve two major objectives. One objective is to equalise the opportunities of the OECD and the Member States of the European Union and Estonian citizens and legal entities. The second objective is to extend the restrictions of the Law restricting the acquisition of immovable property to the sale of state land. At present, these restrictions are not to be taken into account for the sale of state land. The government is proposing to tighten these requirements and extend these restrictions to the sale of all state land. So this law rather narrows the possibilities for foreigners rather than increases them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U129	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U130	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You mentioned the main factors that impact on the rise in food prices: world market, oil prices, unfavourable weather, etc. Minister, I want your opinion. Perhaps our small country, let us be honest, has no opportunity at all to participate in the formation of food prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U131	I didn't understand the end of the question well. Can we influence the level of food prices? Yes, I must admit that it is not possible for us to regulate food prices directly; they still develop in free competition. As I said, the Estonian market is small, nor are we able to influence food prices in any way with our fiscal and fiscal policies. The only thing we can do is increase competitiveness and raise as much as possible the standard of living of Estonians by creating jobs and developing entrepreneurship, so that the purchasing power of Estonians grows and so that the food that we sell is affordable. This is the policy that we have to deal with and what we can do to some extent, but directly influence prices, I think we cannot.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U132	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Agriculture. I will open negotiations and call on colleague Marika Tuusi of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Every time we talk about price increases in this Chamber, it is said that price increases come from somewhere outside: we are affected by wealthy countries, Russia is affected by floods and there is an increase in milk consumption in China. There are also reasons here that we do not want to talk about. In what circumstances do we really live, and what is our standard of living? The Minister on this subject has just finished his speeches. There are a very large number of impoverished people in Estonia who must be limited to minimum consumption or are completely excluded from consumption. Wages are still frozen, unemployment is high, real wages, which, after all, shows the consumer's purchasing power, are already falling for the ninth quarter in a row. The paradox is that while there is no demand for goods and services, prices are still rising. They have been rising for several months now more than in any other European country. More than half of the total price increase, as we know, is due to the appreciation of food and non-alcoholic beverages. There is no news to anyone that, for example, the price of some types of sausages has risen almost 100%, that potatoes, coffee and sugar are now more expensive than in many other countries. The Estonian food industry got, by the way, the biggest profits in the fourth quarter of last year, and in the retail trade, the mark-up rose to record levels. It is clear that the arrival of the euro allowed merchants to increase prices in several waves. However, one of the main reasons for the price increases has been the government's economic policy decisions. We know that the state budget has been balanced with the unbridled increase in excise duties and VAT, but that is what has caused us to have a great price race. As a result of the increase in motor fuel and electric excise duty, a situation was created where the prices of goods had to be increased by almost all operators using electricity and motor fuel. We have reached a situation in the fuel market where excise duty and VAT account for more than 50% of the price of fuel. Thus, more than half of what people spend on maintaining their lives and developing economic activity is taken away by the government. The increase in VAT from 18% to 20% was, of course, passed on to direct price increases. The value added tax (VAT) on food products in Estonia, as has been said here today in many ways, is one of the highest among European countries. Only Estonia, Bulgaria, Denmark and Lithuania have not reduced VAT on food products. We've raised it. In other countries, VAT on food is on average 10%, in Great Britain as much as 0%. VAT on foodstuffs is, for example, considered to be backwards in Britain and is called taxation on living. Although this tax would also bring billions of pounds to the British Treasury, it has been abandoned, still in order not to hurt the uninsured and the farmers. We're gonna do it. We're gonna do it. We're gonna do it. We're gonna do it. We remember that there was a great deal of talk before the elections that the Competition Authority was investigating various cartel agreements. It's all stopped since the election. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance say directly in this Chamber that they cannot contain the price increase, that it is not the government's business and that they do not want it. However, we could do this precisely in these tax policy decisions, but as the Minister said today: if we reduced the VAT on food, the receipts in the state budget would fall by two billion kroons. Which means we don't want to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U134	Thank you. A colleague of the speech chair, Ester Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I very much liked the Minister's honest answer to the last question that there is really no way to curb or mitigate the rise in prices. Indeed, we want to get rich very quickly, of course, it is government policy, but unfortunately, we want to get rich quickly at the expense of our people, our consumers. So there's nothing to do, the answers to the questions were beautiful and political, but the truth came out eventually. Whatever it is, you have to take note of it, live by it and act on it and, of course, make an effort. The damage is only for our people, who are already quite elderly and live from a pension that is beautifully small. Personally, I was startled once when a pensioner close to me asked if I knew how much his pension was in euro. Indeed, it is beautifully small, and there are many people who receive such pensions. But in rural areas there is a mama and a house, and when that mama disappears, under such conditions young families will no longer live there, but will go beyond the borders of a worthy income. It is a great pity, because then they will pay taxes to another country. So thank you, Minister, for not answering, but let us still put the government's heart to it that we cannot increase prices at this rate and, at the expense of our people, force to become rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U136	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U137	Please register in a free microphone after the hammer hit! Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U138	Estonia is a society of homeowners. Official power must encourage home ownership. These slogans come from the IRL bill currently pending in the Riigikogu, which aims to reduce the land tax on homeowners. Two political parties, the Fatherland Association and Res Publica, want to give society the impression that they care about the Estonian family and Estonian home, but I do not believe these parties. Because it is the Fatherland Union, the present IRL, that has previously deprived thousands of Estonians of their right to a home by law, they have expelled thousands of Estonians from their homes. The IRL has committed a new deportation against its own people. During the ownership reform, some 100,000 people lost their homes to date. During Mart Laar's first government, even the Minister for Reform was established. Liia Hänni became that minister. Then the property reform took horrible proportions. The circle of owners was so expanded that it could not be done more widely. Then tenants in Estonia began to be treated as animals. I'm not exaggerating. When Stalin sent Estonians in cattle cars to Siberia, it was the Estonians themselves who deported their own national companions out of their homes as animals, directly to the street and even to the winter world. Cats and dogs were dumped. There were a number of cases when an old man stayed under the tree for the first night, the next day his relatives or acquaintances took him to a cottage or land. I'm not exaggerating, I've been to such cases myself as a journalist, I've picked up these issues, and I've talked about them in a newspaper or on a TV screen. Last week, when the nationalists came up with a request to find and prosecute all those contributing to the Stalinist deportation, the tenants join this proposal. However, we would add that the most brutal promoters of the Estonian ownership reform should also be held accountable. On 17 September 1997, Professor Jaak Leimann, the Minister of Economic Affairs of the Mart Siimann Government, was present in the same chair, where I, Professor Jaak Leimann, was currently standing, and he was already proposing financial compensation for the suffering and loss of homes of forced tenants from the state budget. 'Let's say that there are 100,000 people who lived in returnable houses and couldn't privatise their apartment with the EVPs,' said Minister Leimann of the naked truth from this very speaker's desk to the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, this government was not able to implement what was planned, as on 25 March 1999, Mart Laar's second government came to power and did not even want to hear about the tenants' right to home. To date, no Estonian government or any former minister has apologized for the homes robbed of the tenants. Perhaps few in this Chamber remember that on 13 March 1996 the Riigikogu passed the Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its Additional Protocols. I would remind the entire people that the Estonian Parliament made a reservation when it adopted the Act that the provisions of the Convention and its additional protocols do not apply to the Estonian laws on property reform. This great injustice continues to this day. But the tenants will no longer accept it. They demand human rights in Estonia, as they apply in other European countries, and demand that the state of Estonia remedy their moral and material suffering. I'm trying to give my third speech from this remote next Monday, 13 June, which is the day of remembrance for the victims of the property reform. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-06-06_U139	There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.21 p.m.
