ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs. We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu and Peeter Kreitzberg! On the night of November 3 Peter Kreitzberg, a member of the Riigikogu, unexpectedly left us. This sad message reached us from China, where Peeter Kreitzberg was visiting with a delegation from the Estonian-China parliamentary group. He was elected members of the IX, X, XI and XII Riigikogu. In 1995 Peeter Kreitzberg worked as Minister of Education, he was vice-president of the Riigikogu between 2001 and 2005 and chairman of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu in 2007-2011. Peeter Kreitzberg's departure is a great loss to Estonian political and educational life and to us, his colleagues in the Riigikogu. We shall remember Peter Kreitzberg with silence. [[The silence of grief.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, I call on the speaker, the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates two draft laws and submits two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act. Secondly, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and related other laws. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Social Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these two draft laws. Thirdly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development'. Fourthly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Reimbursement of claims guaranteed by the National VEB Fund certificates'. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when dealing with these two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Me and 16 other members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to address the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang. The inquiry is about investments in the Ministry of Culture. In the 2010 review of the utilisation and preservation of state assets, the National Audit Office found that the guidelines for the allocation of investments of the Ministry of Culture are superficial and do not clearly determine how investments are distributed. In this context, we have five questions for the Minister of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over the draft law amending the law on the prosecutor's office. The initiative to initiate the draft was based on the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the decision to initiate the draft decision was taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 7 November. Initially, the content of this draft was included in the so-called cluster bill. As the draft 100 amended a number of non-Primary Laws, including the draft law amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, although this issue was traditionally part of the Constitutional Commission, the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed that the Constitutional Committee itself initiate this draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the matter, found the initiative to be justified and to initiate the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U7	Thank you. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! 11 members of the Riigikogu have an inquiry to the Minister of Justice Kristen Michal. This concerns the organisation of the salaries of judicial officials. The judicial system was not exposed to painful wage cuts in times of crisis, which is why the previously underfunded area is facing serious problems. In fact, the Ministry of Justice has acknowledged that the level of pay for judicial officials is low, yet in the near future the Ministry sees no opportunity to raise the salaries of civil servants. The previous Minister of Justice offered to use the means of increasing the remuneration of judges as a solution for an increase in the salaries of officials, which the officials considered to be an inappropriate offer. In the Ministry of Justice and its administration, the level of pay for similar positions varies greatly. As an example, if the court consultant's gross salary is 861 euros, then the person in a similar position, the assistant prosecutor's salary is 1384 euros, the secretary's salary is 535 euros, and the minister's rapporteur's salary is 882 euros. However, the requirements for candidates for posts are largely the same. In addition to the fact that the high workload of courts is not a motivational package for an official, but a start-up package for the coming harsh world of justice. After all, the judicial system offers excellent free training in this area. This irresponsible behaviour of a state in a judicial system where the work of judicial officials is not equally recognised by the Ministry of Justice itself and its officials in the area of government is deplorable. Unfortunately, therefore, the quality, efficiency and speed of justice suffer. In this context, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted five drafts and two inquiries. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall forward them immediately to the addressees. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has intervened in the proceedings of the Committee on Legal Affairs. a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law amending other laws, initiated on 26 October, and has appointed it as the commission of directors of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 27 October Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's initiatives concerning the activities and prudential requirements of credit institutions and investment firms, the Committee on European Union Affairs, and has appointed the Monetary Commission to give an opinion on the positions and initiatives of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 17 November 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 27 October, Estonia's views on the draft Communication from the European Commission entitled 'EU Energy Policy: Cooperation with non-EU partners' and on the Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements between Member States and third countries on energy matters', have been appointed by the Council of the Republic to deliver an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the communication and on the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Economic Commission. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 17 November 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 3 November, Estonia presented its views on the European Commission's Green Paper on the distribution of audiovisual works online in the European Union: opportunities and problems in shaping the digital single market to the European Union Commission and has appointed a Committee on Culture to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 16 November at 12 noon. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 4 November, Estonia presented its views on the European Union's Common Agricultural Policy reform package to the European Union Commission and has appointed the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on the Environment to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the reform package. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 25 November at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a On 4 November, Estonia's views on the European Commission's proposals for the financial framework for the European Union and the draft regulations for the Common Strategic Framework Funds and the Cohesion Policy Funds have been presented to the European Union Affairs Committee and have appointed the Government of the Republic to give an opinion on the proposals for the financial framework, the general regulation and the draft regulations for the Funds, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 24 November 2010 at 4 p.m. I have forwarded questions from members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Viktor Vassilyev, a member of the Riigikogu, takes back his inquiry on behalf of Peter Võsa, Deniss Borodichi, Yana Toomi, Lauri Laas and Vladimir Velman, the Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, on behalf of the members of the Riigikogu on 25 October, on the issue of health sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, please, let's do the presence check! 95 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 6. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to the weekly agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U10	Let's start working on the Monday agenda points. Answering questions begins. The first question is the members of the Riigikogu Rannar Vasiliyev, Sven Mikser, Urve Palo, Jaan Õunapuu and Eiki Nestor on 20 September in the s. a request for information on the decisions of the AS Estonian Railway Board. I would like to ask Mr Rannar Vassilyev to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U11	Our concern about this question is that in spring the subsidiary of AS Eesti Raudtee decided to announce a contract to purchase 16 locomotives. In this respect, at least two rather contradictory decisions have been taken by the company board in a short period of time. Consequently, we have some questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Broadly speaking, these questions deal with the following: Since, according to the information available to the public, there were no funds available for such a purchase in this year's budget, when did the decision have to be made and the purchase carried out? What were the reasons why the Council decided initially to reject this proposal, but after a month it decided to support it? In the meantime, changes in the Council's membership took place. As a result, we have a question about the position of those members of the Council who were called back and the position of those members of the Council who were subsequently appointed to that position. In addition, we want to know that if this procurement fails and the company becomes economically harmful, will the minister responsible for the duties of the general meeting and in what form? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U13	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'll answer questions from the questioners. The first question: 'When did the company plan to acquire new locomotives? " The Estonian Railway Company studied the possibilities of acquiring new locomotives or modernising existing ones for more than two years before the contract was announced, according to the board. The company's board of directors arrived in January-February 2011 to make it clear that it is possible to buy locomotives on the market with suitable parameters to replace the existing manoeuvring locomotives park and at an affordable price. One consideration of the timing of the transaction is that the entry into force of the Euro 3 Directive on 1 January 2012 will lead to an increase in the cost of locomotives and no cheaper engines could be used if the procurement was postponed. Question 2: 'At the beginning of July, the company's board did not support the purchase of locomotives. What arguments were there as to why the Council rejected the purchase of locomotives? ' In economic terms, the decision to replace old manoeuvring locomotives is essentially reduced to whether it is economically more appropriate to acquire new locomotives or to maintain an old locomotive park. With regard to the latter option, the question is, moreover, how long this is technically possible and whether renovation of old locomotives would result in a technically and economically desirable result. It should be noted that the manoeuvring locomotives used by Estonian Railways were built in the years 1979 to 1987. For all these options, the Estonian Railway Board prepared a detailed cost comparison. When making financial forecasts for a longer period (up to the next 15 years), there is a great deal of weight in the assumptions used and, unfortunately, for some of them, the only correct values are not known in advance. This may also be one of the reasons why different parties value the same transaction differently. For example, if for some reason the freight volume of Estonian Railways is expected to decrease significantly, it would be wise to postpone large investments in fixed assets. However, if there is reason to believe that this volume will increase significantly, it may be necessary to invest more quickly and more. We do not know exactly the future and therefore people's estimates differ. There may have been other considerations for specific members of the Council, but I cannot comment on these considerations without being in their shoes. The third question: 'About a month later, the company's board decided to purchase locomotives from the Chinese companies' consortium CCOEC/BRE. Within a month, what material circumstances caused the members of the council to change their minds? " The new material circumstances did not appear to me. The management of the company had about a month to put forward and explain the arguments concerning the contract of locomotives, and the composition of the supervisory board changed in the meantime, including the chairman of the supervisory board. Therefore, it was not a situation in which the same parties would have assessed the case differently, but a decision taken by a large number of different parties. According to Viljar Araka, the current chairman of the Estonian Railway Council, the new board of the company made a convincing majority decision on the basis of economic arguments, as the failure to replace the manoeuvring locomotive park would hinder the economic development and competitiveness of the company. I have no reason to doubt these words of the President of the Council today. As with many other transactions, time must show how this has justified itself. Question 4: 'How did the members of the Board of Estonian Railways, who were then excluded from the Supervisory Board at your decision, vote on the purchase of locomotives at the meeting in early July? How did those members of the Council who were appointed as members of the Council instead of those mentioned above vote? ' By decision of 22 July 2011, the representative of my sole shareholder, Tõnis Palts and the Minister of Finance, Tõnis Haavel and Tõnu Kõiv, were called back from the Estonian Railway Council and the new members of the Supervisory Board were appointed Viljar Arakas and Andrus Kuusmann, on the proposal of the Minister of Economic Affairs, and Nikolai Stelmach, on the proposal of the Minister of Economic Affairs. The three board members who had been recalled were among the five who voted against the purchase of locomotives on 5 July, while the new members supported it at the meeting on 4 August. However, it cannot be concluded that some of the board members were recalled because they voted against the purchase of locomotives. [[Laughter.]] As a result of the new government's entry into employment, it is common practice to also renew the composition of the boards of public undertakings. This concerns, above all, the member of the Riigikogu Tõnis Palts, but also Tõnis Haavel, whose mandate had ended, and Tõnu Kõivu, who was probably relatively random in the council. It is a coincidence that the exchange of members of the Governing Council simply came at the same time as considering and deciding on the transaction in question. I would like to stress once again that the decisions taken by the Council are the responsibility of each member of the Council in person. Minister in the role of the Estonian Railways General Meeting has not given the Estonian Railway Council a guide to make or reject this transaction. As I have already said, the changes made in the Council have not been intended to approve this transaction either. Question 5: 'If the purchase of 30 million euros of locomotives fails and the state-owned company suffers economic damage, will the State bear the damage and will you continue to fulfil the obligations as a general meeting of AS Eesti Raudtee? ' I am not aware today of the reasons why the procurement should fail. They have also not mentioned these reasons. The parties to the contract concluded must act in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions and comply with the contract. Although Estonian Railway shares belong to the state, the company is responsible for its own liabilities. Of course, these decisions are also jointly and severally held by the board and the board of directors, in accordance with the Commercial Code and the State Assets Act. According to the specifications of the tender and the contract concluded under these conditions, the Chinese plant, which is the supplier of locomotives, cannot produce locomotives other than those which comply with the operating standards in force in the European Union and also in the 1520 mm rail network. The locomotives purchased must be equipped with US engines and all components must comply with the specifications. According to the contract, the world-recognised certification organisation Bureau Veritas Certification is already involved at the initial stage of the design of locomotives in order to avoid deviations. EVR Cargo has the right to withdraw from the contract without loss if the locomotives to be procured are not certified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U14	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U15	Thank you. As a general meeting, do you consider a 15% advance to be reasonable in this case? You also briefly discussed the potential risks to this procurement and potential supplier, which have been shared with the Estonian public through the press. In this light, does this 15% advance seem to mitigate the risks or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U16	I'd prefer an advance of 0%, but a 15% advance meets the terms of the contract. Under the terms of the tender, the principal terms of the settlement or payment were fixed, so that the settlement arrangements do not differ in any way, no matter who would have won the call. Three bidders were known to participate in this procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U17	Please, my colleague Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Please tell us whether Estonian Railway plans to separate freight and infrastructure in order to sell the freight company later.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U19	This is the plan of the Estonian Government, not the Estonian Railway. Pursuant to European directives, the Estonian Government is obliged to separate the infrastructure company and the freight company competing in the market. This process is in the process of realisation. If there are no previously unknown circumstances, it must be completed by the third quarter of next year. As a result, there will be two companies, and my view is that there is no need to rush to sell one of them in one way or another. It has also been the government's view that we are implementing this rule agreed in Europe and that the cargo company or freight transport company must renew its business plan. Time will indicate whether it is worth involving a strategic investor or disposing of. Newspaper Äripäev knows that the company should be placed on the stock market, but the government doesn't have any such plan. I assure you, I don't have one either. I think it should remain in the country at this point in any case. However, I do not rule out the need to work towards finding a strategic partner and to do so with caution, given the lessons learned from the past by rail.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U20	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U21	Thank you, good manager. Your answer to the question came out that there were random members on the company board. Can you still name state companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, where councils have random members?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U22	Thank you. No, I can't. I meant Tõnu Kõiv because he had been appointed to the Minister of Finance. It may not be correct to say this in this Chamber, but I had heard for at least two or three years that the Minister of Finance planned to replace Tõnu Kõiv. That's what I meant. Under what circumstances the Minister of Finance wanted to replace Tõnu Kõiv, I do not know. Ask the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U23	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U24	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You described how the three members of the recalled Council voted against the purchase of locomotives in July and the three members voted in favour of the purchase later instead. You said it was a coincidence. True, you laughed yourself when you said that. But I ask you this: were you or the Minister of Finance aware of the attitude of those members of the Council, in place of those three who were called back, before they were mentioned, or were they discussed with them before they were appointed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U25	Thank you. I really assure you that I smiled at another reaction, following the reaction of one of your colleagues. Indeed, it was a coincidence. When the new council was formed before the summer vacation, I knew that it would also go into this deal. A certain period of time had been left to decide on this transaction. What position did the new members finally have? They worked on it, I dare say, a few weeks to assess whether or not the previous Council's scepticism was justified. I tried to explain that, if we forget all the conspiracy that has been said a lot about this transaction (I even understand the motives for your inquiry, not yet published here), the purely economic decision depends on certain assumptions and a certain vision of how we see the Estonian Railways operating in the freight transport market, how great the need for a new locomotive resource is. The investment put on the table by the Estonian Railway Board under the conditions that these offers came from is very useful for the company. Now the question is whether this useful investment will come true or not. If it comes to this level, then it should be commended. Bravo, good job! If, under any circumstances, different data are available here, reference is made to one risk or another, given the unique nature of the supplier in a sense, then, I repeat, the members of the board and the board of directors are jointly and severally liable. I certainly intend to follow it as a general meeting, I expect the Riigikogu to monitor it, I expect the National Audit Office to follow it as well. If the economic conditions of this transaction do not materialise and the company loses its victory, the damage question can certainly arise. The same persons who voted in favour are responsible for the damage. So they made a very tough decision, but I dare to confirm that my experts and the Ministry of Economic Affairs believe that this is a very economically useful transaction if this scenario materialises.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U26	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U27	If we're trying to eat ourselves as a locomotive manufacturer who got this contract, he's obviously willing to sell his locomotives, isn't he? From their point of view, this change in the company board benefited their business. Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U28	Is that the question? You know, I can't comment. I can tell you who the producers you referred to are. These are two Chinas, I dare say, an organization. One is China National Corporation for Overseas Economic Cooperation. I'm sorry I don't use the official language! It is a Chinese state-owned company which, through consortium agreements, mediates Chinese mechanical engineering companies' production to other countries. The questioner is at such an age that he certainly remembers names like Estkomtexim or something. The second member of the consortium is Beijing 7. February Railway Transport Equipment AS. These are companies with very high capital. It is very difficult for me to assess whether this is a specific transaction for these companies to win or lose. Let's say it's a win for them. However, they offered a significantly lower price compared to the other bidders involved in the procurement. Another more serious bidder was the Russian-Lithuania company, whose name I have to look for, it was some kind of Trans-Mash-Mush (UAB TMHB), also a relatively active company in this market, but the price difference was quite significant. Looking at the parameters of the locomotives, the difference between the parameters isn't actually that significant. In this sense, I can say that there has been real competition. As far as I am concerned, the other bidder has tried to challenge the company's decision in some way. I don't know what to say about the fate of this appeal right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U29	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U30	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. It is clear that it is time for this Council decision to show whether it was economically justified or not, and it also shows whether the voters have individual responsibility for it and whether only cheapness should be decisive in making such a decision. Mr. Minister! I have a question for you. Similar decisions have been taken in some EU Member States. Do you know whether there are Chinese locomotives in another Member State of the European Union and, if so, in which country?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U31	Thank you. According to my information, these are not available in the Member States of the European Union. I know that the Council was also aware of the Technical Surveillance Authority's guidelines on the transaction and possible accompanying procedures. This production must be certified in the European Union. The certification risk is not borne by Estonian Railway; the certification risk is borne by the same manufacturer. In this sense, yes, it is a relatively unique transaction, but it must be acknowledged that, from the point of view of the company, these risks are borne by the producer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U32	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question also concerns the topic of the Estonian Railway Council, perhaps on the other hand. Are you aware of which waiting pavilions are being built in the Estonian Railway Infrastructure? They're just a roof and a wall. Has it also been the Council's decision that we have such waiting pavilions? They would be more suited to Central and Southern Europe than to the Nordic climate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U34	Thank you. I tend to think it's been a joint decision between the architect, the designer and the designer. I, too, have noticed the beautiful streamlined design of these new waiting pavilions, but the ultimate impracticalness of our climate. I know that the people of Estonian Railways are trying to find some sort of solution, so that even in windy weather and a little colder weather, a person would have some kind of protection from weather while waiting for a train. Your attention was correct. I hope that the Council has not decided in any way on this matter. Rather, such things are born on the proposal of designers, and the result depends on how much they have a practical mind. I very much hope that Estonian Railways will be able to offer something here so that, together with the arrival of new trains, the waiting pavilions will also be more resilient to our climate.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U35	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the potential business risks that Estonian Railway has taken are the responsibility of the members of the Estonian Railway Council. At the same time, you described that the Government of the Republic of Estonia had a plan to sell EVR Cargo anyway and that in the near future, I understand so, or privatise or separate, or what your description was. My question is: if these companies are to be separated or privatized or whatever the government decides to do with them, and their possible price, their value, because the investment decision was wrong, what is the real responsibility that these board members bear in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U37	Thank you. I'm going to repeat to the questioner what the government is planning. The government plans to separate the Estonian Railway Infrastructure and Freight Company. That's all. It is quite early to talk about the privatisation of a freight company or any other such thing. Rather, I expressed my personal view that here really should be measured nine times and cut once, if at all. It is quite clear that the freight transport company also needs renewal and a slightly more robust vision than just that locomotives are driven from border to port. The railway freight company has great potential, but the risks are much more complex, it is still a transport logistics company, etc. In this sense, this activity goes much wider than what the state normally tries to cope with. As you know, we are also trying to cope with another mode of transport, simply because of circumstances it has to be delivered, there are other risks. So there's no plan to sell it. That's a good question. I suggest you read the Commercial Code, see what the so-called 'damage provisions' are for board members and board members. There's nothing ridiculous about this. We also have case law. Of course, in the case of injury, certain important circumstances must always be proved. First of all, there's that damage. Secondly, there is a causal link between the outcome of the so-called decision and the injury. Then the decision maker, or the one who was obliged to make the decision, will of course be responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U38	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U39	This, unfortunately, is not very good practice when very many questions have arisen around the procurement of a public undertaking. The questions as to whether the potential revenues that the Minister spoke about are proportionate to the risks that the procurement may entail, whether the process of preparation and execution of this procurement and how the decision has been taken since then is correct and logical, whether the price of the locomotives to be acquired is balanced or in proportion to their quality and whether the tenderer is actually able to deliver such locomotives. Very many questions, but very few answers. One principle of public administration is of paramount importance to us as social democrats. This principle is that public administration must be honest and must also look fair. We believe that this principle is universal and also applies to public enterprises. In this case, it is very difficult to say that this would apply here. That's why we're worried. We hope that this will remain one of the bad examples or precedents, and such cases will not be repeated very much. The second thing we are genuinely concerned about is this. According to the law, companies, including state-owned companies, should in general be managed by the board of directors and the board, which also has a controlling function, and, as the good minister mentioned, should be held by the greatest personal responsibility. However, if the Council decides at some point, as it sees fit, for example, not to say no to any procurement, then it should not be accompanied by the fact that the general meeting, which, as we have heard, is not directly responsible for the activities of this company, will replace those members of the supervisory board whose decision does not seem sympathetic to the minister performing the duties of the general meeting. The Minister claimed that there was no connection between the two. However, in view of the pace of progress and what the Minister mentioned that there were no new elements added between the Council's two radically different decisions, this impression tends to remain. Hopefully, it's a bad example that the rudder doesn't follow new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U40	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U41	We will go to the next question: members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Deniss Borodichi, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi, Aivar Riisalu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Inara Luise, Enn Eesmaa, Eldar Efendijev and Tarmo Tamme on 26 September. a request for information on new school textbooks. I would like to ask my colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U42	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! On 26 September, we had an inquiry by Jaak, Minister of Education and Science, about which, in short, the content is that the first, fourth, seventh and tenth grades began in September 1st. a apply a new curriculum, but there are no textbooks to teach according to this curriculum, which raises at least two problems. One problem is that teachers need to somehow put together material that is in line with the new curriculum and which can be reported to children in class when preparing for classes. But when the baby's sick, he's gonna have a problem too. As you all well remember, earlier it was that the mother or child himself called the classmates and asked what was given and learned that paragraph number this and this, and he was able to study freely at home. There's no more chance of that. This is a problem and, in relation to this problem, we have put five questions to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U43	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, to the speaker's office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U44	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Riigikogu! Good questioners! The subject of questioning is school textbooks. I believe that the executive power is called and set to do the will of the legislator. The current situation with school textbooks and teaching literature is regulated in the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act in such a way that the Ministry of Education and Research does not have a direct coordinating and organising role in issuing teaching literature and textbooks. This is left to the private sector under the law. The Ministry of Education and Research simply states that the textbooks conform to the current curriculum. The tools for obtaining the textbooks are directed at schools that use them independently according to market rules. I am of the opinion that the number of problems associated with teaching literature has grown to the extent that both executive power and the legislator should deal with this issue at the appropriate moment and find optimal solutions to improve and promote the situation. But now a little more specific. However, with regard to the transition to new curricula, I would like to reflect the problems identified in a slightly more positive color than the questioners. New national curricula in general education did not change the basics so far, in mathematics there are 2 × 2 and 2 + 2 still 4. History, biology, and other disciplines are more or less the same as before the government's adoption of a new curriculum. Therefore, as rightly stated on the EYKK website, there is a need to issue new textbooks or replace old ones on an accelerated basis, and this concerns only a few subjects in upper secondary school where the transition did not begin. a On 1 September, it will only take place later. True, as always, new things need to be further worked here. In many areas of life, both the public and private sectors, changes and reforms are planned, and new technologies are being introduced. The education sector does not differ from other areas. I very much hope that the problems in schools will be resolved in a constructive way. Now, however, a little more specific. You referred to the TV show 'Hello', where Edward Kess, a former member of the board of the Estonian Mother Language Teachers' Association, appeared. His criticisms, though regrettable, contradict the position of the same group of mother tongue teachers of 30 November 2009, which stated that the possibility of using the current world literature textbooks, Merilia-Saro-Annus' Poetics and Noorre's Literature Speech, which are available in schools, should help to solve this problem. So, to sum up, there are a number of problems with teaching literature; I also see problems with the organisation of this field at law level. But I would like to come to you with this question when the degree of revision of the problem allows it. You asked what steps had been taken to resolve the problem of missing teaching literature quickly. The 2011 budget has significantly increased the resources for obtaining textbooks, 20% per pupil at comprehensive school level, even more so in upper secondary school. The average amount allocated to obtaining textbooks in 2011 increased by 2.2 million euros, or 37.6%, which is a significant increase in the public sector. In addition, European Union resources are also designed to provide new learning tools. When will the problem be resolved, or when will the last missing textbooks reach schools? Are and under what conditions the state's funding for publishing textbooks considered appropriate? Once again, when all the best textbooks come to schools, the Ministry of Education and Research cannot say this responsibly today. This depends, above all, on publishers operating in the private sector, but, as has already been said, the greater role of the state is also justified in my opinion. I hope to return to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U45	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions. First of all, my colleague, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U46	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Education and Science! When we talk about textbooks with a small print, such as textbooks on extra or non-essential subjects, and we want to teach them a lot in upper secondary school, or textbooks for children with special needs, it is clear from the perspective of publishers that the market is not just so large that publishers, in economic terms, would like to publish them. In developing the plan with which you come to the Riigikogu, have you also considered solving this problem so that textbooks with a small print can actually reach school?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U47	I am, I am. There are many aspects here, including what you have just referred to, that market failures are so large for objective reasons that it would be superficial to expect the market to regulate everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U48	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U49	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! My question is about the same as the questioner did. Is there really fair competition and can we get textbooks at a fair price?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U50	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U51	Let's just say there are all kinds of market failures. It seems to me that textbook publishers are not complaining about their difficult financial situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U52	Madam President! Good minister! I have heard with my ear at the various parents' meetings in different schools, but these were Russian schools, but our Estonian schools, however, at least three times, heard from the representatives of the Ministry that the textbook is no longer so important that there are no textbooks, because the textbook is such a thing of the last century. Am I to understand that this is not the position of the Ministry of Education and Research and you still think that textbooks must exist in every subject without exception?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U53	These books aren't going anywhere, no matter how wonderful the gadgets we make up. A good textbook, not to mention a very good textbook, is something I can't imagine without a proper education and school. But I think it's perfectly normal if all the learning tools, including textbooks, were available online before they could be printed. This is currently not in the direct economic interest of many parties, but it is certainly in the interests of both teachers and students. There are a number of other regulations. But if you refer to a good textbook that is good to pick up, which can be read, and in which the written text is prominent in terms of both academic content and didactic methodology, it is worth making an effort and must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U54	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U55	Thank you. Dear Minister, We learned from your answers that with regard to textbooks, the Ministry has no controlling and coordinating role at all and that there is no need for new textbooks now, because 2 × 2 is 4 and historical events are about the same. How much have you, as a minister, appreciated this issue in the first place? It doesn't ring any bells that you've picked up these problems and really wanted to solve them.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U56	A good vigilante! Have I made a little bit of a mess in the educational field so that now the textbooks need to be fought with a big screaming and noise? Not all things can be done at the same time. Some things need a little thought. I know that there has been an important problem with textbooks at all meetings with teachers, students and educators, whether at the level of rural governments or local governments. But valuing is really about finding balanced solutions. I think they're still possible. We may have overtrusted the market, which is objectively small and where there are different interests. In many cases, finding partners' common interests could and should be reasonable. However, as has already been said, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act does not provide for such a role. Here we must come to some conclusion together. When exactly? However, there have been other problems that may have been more topical, at least in public life, such as teachers' pay and the school network, but the subject of textbooks is certainly important.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U57	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I find it very sad that the Ministry of Education does not have a coordinating role in the printing of textbooks. Perhaps this role needs to be handed over to local authorities. But my direct question is to you as a minister: what do we answer to the question of teachers, school principals, parents who are responsible for this situation with textbooks?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U59	Who's to blame? What could we possibly achieve with this witch hunt? The situation with the textbooks is not a fire in the sense that we should immediately think about or find out who set the house on fire. This is a situation that has evolved over time. I'm sure things can be done better. Looking at what both textbook authors and publishers have done, it would also be a little unfair to depict the transition to the new curriculum only in black colors. But once again, I'm sure it'll be better. However, I also invite teachers to cooperate, most of whom, I think, agree with me. Innovations are not entirely extraordinary, which should work specifically at the highest level. However, many things can be solved by the teacher himself at the same school. I do not believe that in medicine, where technology is renewed and situations are changing, it should necessarily be the same as what to say, a critical situation when a new apparatus is brought into the house. These problems are, in many ways, manageable on the ground. I think we could take this problem very modestly, prudently, but, as has already been said, some things are better organised at the level of the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U60	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for Education and Science. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U61	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U62	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that our debate with the Minister was in such a positive position. But I have a little story to tell you about real life. I met an Estonian language teacher in Narva who teaches Estonian at Russian school and does so according to a new curriculum. He's been at school for seven or six years. But now his working hours are two or three hours longer every day. He prepares for the next day's class, and after the end of the school day, he's gonna put all this information into e-school. It's autumn, a lot of kids are sick, parents want to know what's been taught for the next day, and they can watch it from e-school. Basically, the teacher is forced to keep an e-book in our e-state, which is very positive, but of course he does not get any extra fee for it. I know that today, after the end of the sitting, he's gonna call me and ask me what the minister said. And I have to tell him I didn't get a good answer. What do I tell this Narva teacher and his colleagues? I'm sorry, maybe I was listening badly, but I didn't find any comfort or a quick way out. We know that teachers' salaries are what they are. Teachers' burden has really increased, but we are talking about the law as it is and there is nothing we can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U63	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! I'm joining my colleague, Yana Toom. Really, we heard such a positive, beautiful speech here. I never thought I'd accept something the Minister of Education said. Why is that? The answer to Mr Tusi's question was in the form of a rhetorical question as to whether the Minister had caused a little confusion in the education system. That is a rhetorical question indeed. Really, there's a lot of confusion and it looks like we won't be able to get out of this porridge in a short time. Every time a minister who carries out pointless reforms recognizes this confusion, it is very positive. I wanted to talk about my feelings. When I look at Mr. Aaviksood, I have more of a defense minister in front of me. So far, I'm not used to him being the Minister of Education and Science. With the latest educational reform, which introduced a new curriculum, there has been a feeling that battle has begun, cannons have been delivered, but no ammunition has been delivered. Clearly, no one wants to answer the question of who is guilty, and it's better to call it a witch hunt. But someone who doesn't answer a question about who's guilty never asks a question about what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U64	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. My colleague, Mailis Reps, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U65	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Education and Science! Indeed, we have been talking about textbook problems for quite a few years. Several legislative changes were also discussed in relation to the implementation of the new Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. I agree with the Minister for Education and Science that the provisions and paragraphs that eventually got in were not the best. They were certainly a compromise at the time, because they did not want to unravel the problem, because there were other very difficult issues, and they wanted to bring the bill to the Chamber quickly. But I'm sure we should come back to the subject of textbooks. I'll bring up some ideas. Firstly, in the case of a new curriculum, some things have indeed changed. Upper secondary schools are expected to have a large number of elective courses for the so-called two or three courses. These electives can be quite new, with a quite different approach, and therefore a new field or branch of study will be created at school. When we look at how these new electives can be applied in practice over the next three years of study, it is clear that this requires educational material. Maybe we don't call them all textbooks, but additional training material for teachers is definitely needed to run lessons. Do we now only hope that the educational market will regulate it? Are publishers, as private market economy companies, really interested in offering different electives to schools? I doubt it. So here it is certainly urgent to think together about whether this should be done through public procurement or in the form of orders, projects or programmes. I have already mentioned another aspect. For years when economic growth was quite good, the state and the Ministry of Education made quite a major procurement to order textbooks for children with special needs. Unfortunately, in times when the cuts were quite large, these lines also became a little narrower. If it is possible to take note of the need to provide educational resources for children with special needs, especially for children with severe disabilities, for public money, this would certainly be very important. Thirdly, I would like to mention a subject which the Minister of Education and Research knows very well. This relates to different foreign languages. In addition to problems with English teaching materials, problems have arisen even when German textbooks are issued, not to mention other languages. Upper secondary schools are looking forward to these textbooks, but the provision of educational material as a set is not useful again due to market economy logic. So these thoughts may be taken from here. I believe that we will come back to this issue in the near future, in particular due to the need for a large number of electives in upper secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U66	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U67	Let's go to the last question. This is the members of the Riigikogu, Mailis Repsi, Deniss Borodichi, Kalle Laaneti, Eldar Efendiev, Tarmo Tamme and Enn Esemaa on 12 October. a. a request for information on support for educational expenditure in the state budget (No 45). Now, please, colleague of the speaker's desk, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U68	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Education and Science! There are negotiations with local governments before each year's state budget is drawn up. As a result, and in discussions with the Ministry of Finance on the budgetary possibilities of the Ministry of Education and Research, the breakdown of education costs will be developed next year. Since the distribution of education costs is not very detailed in the transferred state budget, we found it necessary for the Minister of Education and Research to exchange views on this subject in this Chamber. While local governments are teachers' employers, the minimum wage rates for teachers have been set by the state and the whole issue of teachers' salaries is currently very painfully raised. In addition to other pressures, the OECD's annual comparison of key educational indicators has now been published, which points out that the net and gross salaries of Estonian teachers are considerably lower than in the rest of the OECD countries. The representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research have confirmed, both in the press and in this Chamber, that teachers' salaries can only be raised after a proper reorganisation of the school network, or optimization. As a result, there are six questions for the Minister for Education and Research. We want an overview of the plans to change the financing model for general education. As regards the reorganisation of the school network for general education, the question is what are the fundamental changes in this area and to what extent these schemes are based on calculations. We are also interested in the reduction in the number of children. The decrease in the number of children has affected the Estonian regions very differently. We therefore want to know whether this will also be compensated by changing the financing model and how much the number of teachers will be reduced with changes. The restructuring of the school network is another issue. After all, it requires additional resources, for example for school transport and dormitories, but also for redundancy payments. As regards the transport of students, we are interested in how much is planned to negotiate with the local authorities on financing school transport and covering their transport costs. And our last question concerns the remuneration of teachers, directors and teachers of municipal and private general education schools, which have already been mentioned. We addressed these questions to the Minister for Education and Research and look forward to answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U69	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. I would ask you, Minister for Education and Science, to give the answers to the eloquence.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U70	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It may not be unknown to anyone in Estonia that in the 1990s children were born in some half twice, but in the middle a third less than in the 1980s, not to mention the time of the singing revolution. And it is therefore probably correct to state that the reorganisation of the school network is not so much caused by the Riigikogu or the Ministry of Education and Research, either by the government or by local authorities, but by unborn children. It is just as right to say that those Estonian people who earn a living in their work pay taxes and maintain education, social and cultural activities would somehow be able to make up for the deficit caused by unborn children. It's just not possible! This is why we all need to tackle together the challenges that objectively birthing demographic processes bring with them. I believe that these reorganisations, which are inevitable, require involvement, reflection and also co-decision from a large number of parties, not only the Ministry of Education and Research. For this reason, I am not here before you with a proposal on exactly how to organise everything and how to compensate all parties for any inconvenience. Rather, I try to formulate what these challenges are, and to explain my own proposals and views that, through this public debate, which has come about in a grateful way in Estonian society, we can also reach solutions that I hope will be acceptable, but unfortunately they are not the most pleasant for all parties, be they local government or state level. Obviously, we can't escape those painful decisions. We have dealt with them in the area of Police and Border Guard and Rescue; we have dealt with them in the medical field. Structural restructuring in the education sector has been slower for various reasons, and I am certainly not here to reproach anyone for the current situation. But now specific answers. 'What plans do you have to change the financing model for general education and what role do you see in shaping the financing model for the Riigikogu? " Today, according to the constitution, but specifically under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the various aspects of financing general education are distributed between the local government and the state, which is in some respects quite incomprehensible and opaque. At times, a situation has been created where some order lunch and others have to pay for it. Such situations should necessarily be avoided. I therefore hope that the proposed changes will provide for funding schemes where all parties are interested in making the most sustainable use of public money and that those who order lunch will pay for it themselves. A clearer distribution of responsibility between the local government and the state is, in any case, necessary and will increase the responsible handling of our common assets. Today, the discussion of this financing model will take place in the Working Group on the Budget of Education and Youth Work of the Cooperation Council of the Government of the Republic and Municipalities, which also includes the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. We hope that sharing the 2012 money, which essentially consists of negotiating a government regulation and an agreement with partners, will lead us to better results than it has done so far. I would like to highlight as an example the possibility that the amounts earmarked for different purposes in terms of estimates, be they for the issue of textbooks or investment grants, can be used more flexibly by municipalities according to local priorities, including the raising of teachers' salaries. This may be justified in 2012, and for my part I certainly support the local government's efforts to channel money, in particular to raise teachers' salaries, by saving other spending items where possible. However, as has already been said, it is not excluded that the proposed changes also require changes in the law in order to clarify the responsibilities and responsibilities of the various parties, including in the area of funding. Thus, the Riigikogu could also play a role in negotiating and adopting legislative changes. The second question: 'You have spoken on several occasions about the fact that the general education system does not need additional funding, but should be reorganised. Is and what fundamental change are you planning as Minister of Education? " I have not said that the general education system does not need extra money. He's gonna need extra money! But believe me, no matter how much money we send to this sector, the structural problems will not go away. Unborn children are still unborn children and the resulting need for restructuring remains. And I'm pretty sure the reorganization will release the money. But the extra money, as we know about Estonian literature classics, will receive the school pad 24 hours a day, but come and give it, everything will be spent and received with gratitude! Now a few more words on fundamental changes. I very much believe that functionally different grades of primary school and upper secondary school should, if not administratively, be functionally separate and operate with greater independence. Whether in 100% of all cases, I don't know right now, we're discussing it. Should they be nationalized? Yes, in many cases it may be justified, but in many cases it may not be. In view, for example, of the activities of upper secondary schools as state secondary schools, I consider it entirely possible to have a situation like that of the Tartu Vocational Education Centre today: formally, the state school is managed by the local government on the basis of a management contract. Why can't you have high school? Absolutely conceivable! At the same time, one thing is clear, which I have repeatedly said away from this speech chair: we have too many institutions that teach at upper secondary school level. In the interests of the quality of education, as well as the rational use of resources, changes in this area are urgent and inevitable. The third question: 'The decrease in the number of children has affected Estonia's regions differently. How and to what extent are you prepared to compensate for the drop in the number of students in the regions by changing the financing model for general education and to what extent are the number of teachers expected to decrease with changes? ' It's been different. The situation in Narva and Tallinn is quite different from that in Misso municipality, for example, but fundamentally different from the situation in Viimsi municipality. Of course, something needs to be softened, including by channelling public funds, but not all unborn children can be paid for. It is not conceivable that teachers will continue to go to school even when there are no more children there, and the taxpayer will pay for it all. This situation, as described today in the Estonian Päevaleht, where four quite sad-fashioned students sit in the last benches of the class and are taught by an entire upper secondary school degree, does not talk about reasonable educational arrangements. Absolutely not! Thus, the number of institutions providing upper secondary school education is quite certain to decrease. At the same time, it is quite clear that with a simple bounty-based approach, so much money can not go on for every student and that class-based funding is more reasonable than bounty-based funding. The question is how much is expected to decrease with changes in the number of teachers. We had 224000 students in 1997, or 14 years ago. Today, 145,000, or in coarse lines, are a third less. We had 11984 teaching positions, now 11970, or 14 fewer. You can't go on like this. The number of teachers per student will also decrease. How much depends on the negotiations will depend on the discussions ahead. But I really want those decisions to be made before Midsummer Day. This means that before the snow melts, the Ministry of Education should have a proposal based on these discussions, which obviously can also be discussed at least at the level of the Committee on Culture in the Riigikogu, but perhaps also at the level of a large hall. Question 4: "What other funds have you planned for local authorities to restructure the school network? ' This is the subject of discussion. The way things are probably not going is that all the changes have to be paid for. Some of the changes are a natural development and each public authority or entity must take into account that the proposed changes must be made within the framework of existing funding. It is true that some changes require additional funding. But the general rule is rather this: life goes on, the area of school administration must go on, and additional money must be allocated when additional expenditure is really needed. I very much hope that the current distribution of responsibilities between the local government and the state will become a clearer expression. At the moment, we read in the law that school transport is not the responsibility of the state, it is the task of the local government. And no one can tell whose job it is to ensure that students from vocational schools who receive secondary vocational education also reach the school. Unsolved issues - regrettably unsolved issues! A clearer division of labour and a clearer responsibility are necessary. The fifth question: 'The organisation of the school network and the provision of upper secondary school education in county centres of attraction require the development of student transport logistics. What kind of local government funding system do you see from the state budget regarding the school network plan and covering school transport costs for students? 'That's what I've already stopped on. Perhaps the state must take over the responsibilities of local governments in full, while leaving some of the country's responsibilities to the local government, but this will require much more discussion with different partners than we have done so far in the Ministry of Education and Research. However, I am pleased to say that I have not had any meetings that would not understand the need to deal with the school network in substance. It also understands the need to reduce the school network and not to grow it. But, of course, the differences must be discussed in concrete terms, not in abstract terms, and this also concerns funding. Question 6: '2012. The 2009 explanatory memorandum to the state budget states that the resources included in the education expenditure are to support the salaries and further training of municipal and private general school teachers, directors and heads of study, the acquisition of educational resources, school lunches and investments. How will the education expenditure support planned in the 2012 state budget be divided into salaries, educational resources, investment grants and school lunches? ' As I have already said, I am of the opinion that local authorities would retain a certain degree of freedom to use these sums. Local authorities have supported this partly themselves, but we are not convinced that this redistribution has taken place in a sufficiently transparent and clear manner. I therefore very much want the Government of the Republic regulation to be agreed on to provide clearer grounds for these reallocations. At least the local government could publicly justify the choices that it made within the limits of the money it provided, which it considered important, where it wanted to give more money and where it thought it was right to take away. These are probably different answers in different municipalities, but I hope that they will be public and support, as has already been said, particularly the increase in teachers' salaries where it is possible to do so within the limits of the amounts available in the state budget. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U71	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Let's start with colleague Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have seen ministers who, when they see a problem in their field, are really putting pressure on the government, fighting to get money, defending their positions. In your case, we saw that as soon as the question of teachers' pay arose, you and Prime Minister Ansip began to run the same rhetoric: there is no money, wages will not rise until the school network is restored. Those teachers who were on Toompea just asked IRL about the raise because you promised to pay the teachers before the election. It was also pointed out that the level of the full-time teacher's salary does not currently allow for a pension rate of even 1.0. I'm asking you, why would you allow it before the election if you weren't prepared for any particular plan? Why did you mislead the voters?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U73	We promised and we will. I have said that the 20% wage increase, or the average salary of a full-time teacher, which is 20% higher than the national average, is our political goal. This opinion is shared by many members of the government. I think it is not only beautiful as an objective, but also feasible. But part of this work is also about changing the school network. Nobody's saying everything's gonna be here by tomorrow morning. 2014 is a long way off. Indeed, this government coalition intends to work four years to achieve this goal, including the IRL. And right now, I do believe that this objective can be achieved. There is no point in misleading people by claiming that the IRL or any other party has allowed everything to be done within six months of making the changes in substance, which are objectively much longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U74	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Your predecessor initiated such an internship that schools were bought from local governments and state secondary schools were created. I ask you: do you consider this step appropriate and why the state gymnasium is better than the municipal gymnasium? Is this reasonable use of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U76	Pilot projects, which have been launched in Võru, Jõgeva, Viljandi and Haapsalu, have been carried out because the functional separation of primary schools and upper secondary schools left the Riigikogu halfway as a result of a slightly principled compromise. This was also accompanied by a clear, honest and transparent message to the whole education public on the organisation of the upper secondary school network, a message that it needs to be developed further. I believe that the examples of Viljandi, Võru, Jõgeva and Haapsalu allow for the launch of state secondary schools. Perhaps these state secondary schools are an example of redesigning the school network for other municipalities. At the same time, it is true that specific measures, including the purchase of school buildings from local authorities, can not only be turned into a general rule, it is not only feasible, but it is also, in my opinion, quite reasonable. But in specific cases there were serious arguments for this, which I do not know in the details and therefore cannot comment on.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U77	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U78	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I'll come back to your metaphor, who's gonna order lunch and who's gonna pay for it. I dare say that a mother of many children thinks that if she gives birth and raises ten, eight or five children, she will pay for the lunch that someone does not want to have children because he prefers a career and a comfortable life. And in the future, somebody else's kids are gonna pay him a pension. But that's it. You mentioned that by the time the snow melts, you had a plan in your pocket. This means that in five months' time, there should be a solution to a question on which you do not know what to say in concrete terms. Is there a plan that your predecessor, Mr Lukas, left for you? Or does the Ministry already have a pretty good plan and it just needs to be fine-tuned? Five months is a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U79	Of course there are many documents, some of them are also available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research. As early as 2006, Praxis carried out a survey of the school network on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Research. It seems to me that no new wisdom, no new concepts have been added during this period. People have had five or six years to familiarise themselves with different proposals, different principles, different methodologies. Whoever has read these materials has seen that they are honestly done and seriously worked by county. We are smarter now, but the decisions have not yet unfortunately been reached. But if anyone wants to know concrete proposals by county, they could read all these options. Not everyone may like it, but as a basis for reconsideration, these documents are valuable in any case. I think that, by supplementing them with concrete proposals and going beyond, we will be able to find a solution for the whole school network and decide what it would look like in five or ten years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U80	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U81	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister stood in this chair and answered questions related to teachers' pay. The Prime Minister said, as if referring to the information received from you, that there is plenty of money in the education sector in Estonia and, if the educational network is optimised, there will be money to raise teachers' salaries. There'll be no more money before that. He also pointed out that according to his data, the educational expenditure in Estonia is 7% of GDP and that Estonia is the fourth, almost prized place in the European Union. In the Riigikogu, the authors of the Human Development Report also went to the Riigikogu to present their work. According to their analysis, public expenditure on education has been around 5% of GDP in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and has decreased slightly in the last year. This is less than our northern neighbours invest in education, and also less than the OECD average. The recent economic crisis has aggravated the situation. In short, the authors of the Human Development Report, scientists, say that the situation is much worse. Can you explain the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U82	Actually, it's hard to explain, but I can explain a little bit more. If you take OECD data, you will get one figure. This is one of the methodologies used by the OECD to correct educational expenditure and classify them as different public expenditures based on the so-called COFOG methodology. In addition, Eurostat has its own methodology for research. The World Bank works on the basis of the third methodology. So if you compare, it's worth comparing comparable numbers. One small, very simple example. Defence United Educational Institutions as an educational institution operating in the area of the Ministry of Defence are calculated according to one methodology into defence costs, another into educational costs. So if you make comparisons, it's worth looking at each time, what kind of methodology has been used to get some data. The national rankings are therefore also different. As far as the methodology used in the Human Development Report is concerned, unfortunately, I do not know that. The Prime Minister referred to Eurostat's ranking and there, indeed, Estonia ranks fourth among the countries of the European Union. However, I can tell you one question that I do not have an answer to today. And it is regrettable that the Estonian state does not have this answer. In the case of general education, it is considered reasonable that teachers' salaries represent 55 to 60% of the total cost of general education. In Estonia, depending on local government, this figure is sometimes less than 50%, in some places even less than 40%. So we have money in education, but it's going to cost a lot of other things. I see wrong priorities behind this. Maybe there are objective reasons. Maybe some schoolhouse really is taking so much heat money that there isn't enough for teachers' salaries, but then we have to sit down and think about what to do. It is unwise to maintain a system of education where teachers pay much less money than in other countries. Believe me, there are already school houses in Estonia, the appearance of which is a little too vain, compared to the countries much richer and more advanced than us. So sometimes, setting priorities is out of place within the education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U83	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U84	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! There was a pretty clear message last week that we can talk about teachers' salaries and other funding principles after the school network has been reformed. That this is one of the basic assumptions so that we can discuss it at all. At the same time, you are also aware that the reorganisation of the school network actually requires very fundamental changes, such as the division of functions between municipalities and the state. It is also likely to be necessary to change the position of the schoolmaster, whether he is a state or a local government. This again, one might say, requires, for example, administrative reform. Now that we have told the teachers that we are going to reorganize first and then talk again about wages, how many years will we be able to come back to this issue again? When can we start talking about teachers' salaries again, saying that the school network is now being reorganized?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U85	Of course, life is so complicated that in the meantime it seems practically impossible. And it will end in death anyway. It's all right. At the same time, we have heard many times here from various orators that one good crisis must not be wasted. The current state of education is also such that we should make the most of the situation that has developed, as far as possible, into structural changes. After all, it is quite clear to all of you in this Chamber and also to me that in 2013, the amounts allocated from the state budget to teachers' salaries will increase. It's a politically obvious fact, and if there's no earthquake or anything like that, that's how it's gonna happen. But an increase in teachers' salaries, with the support of extra money alone, will certainly not be as great as they expect if there are no structural changes. I need both, and I think they're both coming. We will be able to do so, both by finding additional resources and by changing the current state of play. I believe that, in principle, the need for structural restructuring is understood. This is unlike administrative reform, which has been conceptually opposed. But there is basically no opposition to the reform of the general education network, it is a matter of practical implementation and, in many cases, the question of political reality at local government level, who will make this decision. In my opinion, the Riigikogu must take part in the responsibility and find a compromise in which all parties take part in the burden and do not roll it like hot potatoes from one hand to another. I basically support it, but you decide whether it's a state, a local government or a school.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U86	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U87	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'll ask you two questions in a minute, choose what you'll answer. You said that perhaps wages are low, less than 40-50% of the average because wages are paid for too expensive heating, etc. Please explain: how is it possible to cover utilities, such as heating, from the money allocated to teachers' salaries? And the second question. You recalled that there were 224000 students in Estonia in 1997, currently 145000, or less than in 1948. The school network is more or less the same and you have a plan to optimize it and create a school network that will meet the requirements in 10 to 15 years' time. I think in 1997 no one thought that the number of students would fall by 79000 over the next 14 years. Can anyone at this time tell you how much the number of students will fall in the next 10 to 15 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U88	In 1997, all these unborn children and birth children were known, and every wise person was able to rake it out. That wasn't some miracle art. The current situation is simply an inability to decide or, let's say, a dispersal of responsibility between the various decision-makers. But how is it possible that teachers' salaries are not paid into the teacher's pocket, but are used elsewhere? The money that is known to be allocated from the state budget is support for local governments and, formally, it does not have to be paid for teachers' salaries. It seems to me that some local authorities have used this legal option in this way. That's the way it is! Look at the rules in force! Moreover, local authorities have repeatedly said no to the Ministry of Education and Research's proposal that they should report on the use of their money by cost item. So here's the problem of trust. It would certainly be more beneficial for all parties to have greater transparency in the use of the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U89	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When Mr Ansip began to tell us that we were going to be among the richest of the five Europes, it was a complete mystery to me. I thought it was such a political avantyrism. But then, after all, the good Prime Minister knew how Eurostat was going to compile its statistics. Of course, everything must be exploited, including the methodologies for compiling Eurostat statistics. Indeed, we are spending a huge percentage on education and health care. But I would like to ask whether, for example, Eurostat statistics include the grants that the European Union grants to our vocational schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U91	Of course they're in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U92	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U93	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Your proposal to change the number of schools decisively requires compliance with this law, which requires that all preparatory work be completed five months before 1 September. In this regard, Minister, I have a question for you. I would like to know the prognosis of how much the Ministry will be able to do before 1 April next year to reduce the school network. Or is everything going to stay the same next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U94	It's definitely not gonna be the same. I believe that the number of high school grades in our municipal schools will definitely decrease. That is, even if we do nothing, because in some places it is impossible to support upper secondary school. If there aren't any students coming, it's probably clear to everyone that you can't. But of course it's complicated. Of course, it is possible to refer to lawnholds that do not allow one thing or another to be done. However, I think that if we reach a reasonable agreement on what we want to do, then at the appropriate level of decision-making, be it in the local government, at the executive level or in Parliament, the necessary decisions will also be taken. I am not worried about whether these decisions will take one year or two years or three years, and they will take exactly as much time as is required by our consensual or, at least, maximum consensus-seeking decision. But I am strongly opposed to the reference to difficulties and the failure to make decisions. In that case, not many things will happen in 10 or 20 years' time. That makes sense. For this reason, I have a bit of an opting wish for the Ministry of Education and Research to come up with ready solutions. That is why we do not do this, that as soon as we come up with the solutions we are ready, different parties will ask, but why we were not spoken to. Now, above all, we want to reach an agreement that yes, that is the problem, we want to solve it, and that is what we are proposing. The Ministry of Education collects proposals, analyses them and proposes some sort of compromise. The picture is not yet clear. Some school leaders ask me if I'm going around Estonia, if his school stays. I say I don't know. I will certainly never answer the question of which schools the Minister of Education and Science decided to shut down. This decision must be a sensible decision of reasonable people, not a single official, no matter how high a position he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U95	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U96	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I want to be more specific. You claim today from this remote unit that you are aware that some local authorities do not use the money earmarked for the salaries of teachers allocated by the state. Could you name these local authorities? The members of the Riigikogu are certainly interested in this, because this money is earmarked for this purpose, based on the minimum wage rates. Indeed, it is possible to play in terms of educational resources, investment grants and upgrading of qualifications, but the cost of school lunch and the salaries of teachers have so far been prescribed. Do you have any such records? And if it is, could you tell me where it's been done like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U97	Two specific answers. Firstly, they are not earmarked appropriations. These are grants which may be used at the discretion of the municipality in accordance with the law. That's right! So this argument is not correct. I, too, have always believed that these are earmarked allocations, but I have been told that they are not legally earmarked allocations, and that is how local authorities treat this money. If I'm wrong now, it's because I've been given bad advice. But it is a matter of local self-government autonomy that I do not want to stop on right now. Now the next question: which municipalities have done this in particular? The money from the state budget is allocated not only to the minimum wage rates, but to a much higher amount. None of the local authorities pays teachers the minimum wage, as far as I know. But the money it takes to pay all the teachers the minimum, and the money from the state budget is two different sums. And that's what I mean about the difference between the minimum amount required and the actual amount allocated, there's an ambiguity that affects many local governments. I have not yet received a clear report from the local authorities and they argue that there is no legal basis for this either. We have no reason to call for a report on how the budget is spent in the form of grants under the Equalisation Fund, which should go first and foremost to education expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U98	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Education and Science. I'm opening negotiations. I call on my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! After I heard the previous speaker say something about a reasonable arrangement, I decided not to wait for a free microphone. I have a speech on education, and I say my thoughts in the context of an inquiry. I want to say right now that I am performing not only as a member of the Riigikogu but also as Chairman of the Coalition Council of the City Council of Narva. I inform you that the coalition has discussed and will soon sign a new coalition agreement stating that the City Council of Narva and the City Government of Narva are located in Narva to create a Russian private secondary school. Why are we doing this? Not because we really want to do this, but because we have always believed that every child, every parent, must have a choice between at least four systems. Even in the city of Narva, it must be possible to choose whether to start studying in the purely Estonian language, Narva Estonian Gymnasium, start studying at the Narva Old Town State School, or go to a gymnasium that teaches 60 and more percent in the Estonian language, or study in its own language. At present, this fourth, final opportunity can only be secured by the creation of a private secondary school. I would remind you that once, ten years ago, when we were looking for a compromise here and found a compromise on the transition of Russian schools to the Estonian language, it was a talk that this transition could only be implemented if the educational tools that satisfy a child from the Estonian family, a Russian child from the family as well as a child from the mixed family were prepared, that is, taking into account mentality, language skills and other things. It's not there. As we heard today, these funds are basically not available. This transition was to begin when the teachers were prepared. That's not what I'm gonna comment on. And most importantly, this transition had to start when the students were ready. I say: in order to study in Estonian in upper secondary school classes, the language level must be C1 or even C2. Last year of study, 461 students took the ninth grade final exam in Narva, with an average score of 2.89 in the five-ball system. The average number of points of 100 possible was 49.01. Those who scored 60 or more points, i.e. those who achieved B1 with the exam, were 165 in total. Even with this knowledge, it is not possible to study history, mathematics, etc. in upper secondary school. The Ministry of Education leaves children unable to get a proper education. They will not only master the official language but will also leave their knowledge in another subject. The Narva city authorities discussed this matter several months ago with the Minister of Education, who was now brilliantly vanished from this hall, as well as with the Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry. The proposal to make an effort to increase the quality of teaching the Estonian language in the Estonian language class, not in the history and mathematics classes, was not supported by the head of the Ministry of Education or other staff. So the city of Narva has no choice. We have to protect our children. We understand perfectly that if Russian children in Narva do not have the opportunity to study at least 60% of upper secondary school in Russian, then it is impossible for very many of them to receive upper secondary school education. We have no choice but to start preparing and carry out all the necessary procedures so that by 1 September 2013, we would have been established and working at the Russian private secondary school. It is very difficult to do this with current laws, but we are doing this because the Ministry of Education has left us no other option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U100	Thank you, Madam President. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U101	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U102	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Now, please, colleague of the speaker, Kadri Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U103	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I would like to say for my part that yes, we have always had such good practice that ministers listen to the question of questioning until the end of the debate. However, I would add that if we wanted to follow this practice, I would ask that the heirs also be all in the Chamber when their questioning is being made. But I'm sure I'll tell the minister. I don't know why he just left the hall. Now, please, Mr Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U104	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to appeal to the President of the Riigikogu on this matter that on Mondays, when ministers answer questions from members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, the procedure is that we ask the Minister in writing a question and he comes to answer us in the week he wants us to. He can answer all the questions and every member of the Riigikogu can ask more specific questions within one minute of being asked one question per member of the Riigikogu. If some questions are given a slightly vague answer, then in the future the details can only be specified so that I come here to the Riigikogu Chair, the minister hears what is confusing to me and reacts. To date, the Minister of Education and Research has left this Chamber and the Riigikogu has much less opportunity to clarify one issue. I think that the Board of the Riigikogu is certainly competent to tell ministers that if they have chosen a suitable time to answer their questions, they could stay in this Chamber until a specific item is fully discussed. I came here to speak on the subject of education, but because the Minister of Education explained in some ways, in some ways, gave the same message as the Prime Minister has already preached. The fact that there is money in education must only be restructured and the means of raising teachers' salaries must be found sometime in the future when most Estonian upper secondary schools are closed. Our Prime Minister even announced that there are currently 220 upper secondary schools in Estonia and that if 54 were left, the teachers would also receive their expected 30% salary increase. The Prime Minister's argument was based on the fact that, according to Eurostat, 7% of GDP is spent on education in Estonia, and that is the fourth place in the European Union after Denmark, Sweden and Cyprus. Now we realise that this is not freely spent money and that this percentage is so high, in particular, because we are getting very strong money injections from the European Union. It has been prescribed where the money must go. Billions of kroons go, for example, to renovate vocational schools, which is, of course, very necessary. And there is no way to save this money and instead of renovating it, for example, to pay teachers higher wages. If we look at the proportion of our education expenditure compared to other countries' figures, the statistics on the Human Development Report are certainly much more relevant. And it says that when we look at our educational expenditures in 1995, 2000 and 2007, things have been getting worse all along. By 2007, education costs in Estonia were lower than in Latvia, slightly higher than in Lithuania, lower than in Poland, Finland and Sweden. So we're still pretty much saving on education, and the talk of applying the teachers to the idea of shutting down maghymnasiums, saying that you teachers need to support the idea that many of you are going to be unemployed and getting the remaining higher pay is a relatively Jesuit talk. In fact, education is not contributed as much as it is spoken. This percentage is raised by the European Union's aid, but there is no way that this money can be transferred to the teachers' payroll fund. Thank you for your attention and I hope that next time we talk about education, the Minister of Education will also listen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U105	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am now speaking on behalf of the heirs, so I hope that I would have deserved so much attention that Mr Aaviksoo would have been here until the end of the question. In fact, he could have spoken in the same negotiations as many ministers have. First of all, I want to clarify something. Mr Aaviksoo explained that local authorities are not forced to use state budget resources to pay teachers higher salaries. Indeed, if we look at the line that lists the allocations to local governments, there are also the salaries of teachers, directors and school leaders, further training, the acquisition of educational resources, support for school lunches and investment. In principle, it can be said that the law provides for school lunches and local authorities break the law when spending school lunches, for example, to raise the minimum wage for teachers. Really, that is impossible! The law provides for the provision of money for school lunch allowance, and so far most municipalities have paid more so that school lunch is free of charge for parents and children. There is also the acquisition of educational resources. We have in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act that educational resources, workbooks and worksheets are entirely free of charge for students, which is guaranteed by the school. For this reason, local authorities actually have to pay a lot more for teaching resources. In a number of smaller municipalities, these amounts are significant, and so the minimum rates for teachers' pay cannot be increased. Investment grants and in-service training are two cost items, at the expense of which a large number of municipalities have raised teachers' salaries during the crisis. Let us be honest, there are a number of teachers-pedagogies to whom the local government is currently paying a salary from its payroll. For example, much-needed logos, social pedagogues, leaders of all kinds of circles, school psychologists, etc. We are talking about such supporting agencies. Very many schools also employ assistant teachers, for example, in the case of particularly difficult children, even several teachers can help in the classroom. These are teachers who deal with children either during detention or during hours when the child's behavior or state of health does not allow him or her to be with others in class. He will be sent to a so-called adjoining lesson or a so-called library lesson. Keeping such additional teachers on the payroll is also on the shoulders of local authorities. So to say that local authorities do not devote all the resources allocated by the state to the salaries of teachers is criminal. In fact, municipalities pay a considerable amount of their budget to the salaries of teachers. This is about putting flies in the head, which my colleague, Kadri Simson, was talking about. First, the teachers are told to shut up and don't strike. If you do, your school will be shut down and the next-school paychecks will go up. But if you're very quiet, the secondary school will be shut down and you'll get paid. In reality, wages do not rise in either school. And the other thing is, the state's good gonna give you money, but the local authorities are gonna move the money somewhere else. Neither of these arguments is serious. As far as teachers' salaries are concerned, when I talk about optimising the school network, I can tell you from my own experience that, when a very large network of vocational schools was collapsed, it cost the country a great deal in four or five years. I'm not just talking about redundancy money and renovation of dormitories here, but it was also physically necessary to redesign the buildings. If, for example, a large school building built for thousands of children needs to be converted into a basic school, where only 80 children may be able to study, then it must be rebuilt. The same applies to student homes and other buildings. So just to talk about shutting down every other school, not to mention upper secondary school levels, generally does not lead to direct cost savings. The rumor that this will increase teachers' salaries is that there will be no criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U106	Thank you very much, Mr Mailis Reps. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-11-07_U107	Please sign up for an appearance in a free microphone after my hammer kick! There's no call. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.03 p.m.
