ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues have a desire to pass on enquiries and drafts? Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 11 members of the Central Party Group, I am going to refer an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus. This concerns RMK's suspicious cooperation with the financial company Cof. As we know, the price of the firewood has risen very sharply and the State Forest Management Centre, or RMK, could offer a normal price of firewood to people suffering from poverty, but they have chosen another way. They have cut down Cof, a financial company that basically lends the winter heat to people, and this loan percentage is 24,9% per year. In addition, a contract fee of EUR 15 per person is added. We ask what criteria Cof was chosen as the provider of this service. Why is RMK unable to offer this service on its own at a reasonable price and, above all, to direct the service to vulnerable families? Why does RMK guarantee such a high profit to one company? What objective does the RMK's development plan address? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U3	Thank you. And please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of five Social Democrats, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts regarding the plan of AS Eesti Raudtee to buy approximately 30 million euros of locomotives, related public procurement and decisions of the Supervisory Board and the conversion of the members of the Supervisory Board in the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. On Wednesday 21 September, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Justice Kristen Michal and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 89 comms are registered, 12 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like your attention. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today there is a delegation of Riigikogu guests, a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Icelandic Parliament, with its chairman, Árni Thór Sigurdsson. Let's welcome them! Welcome! [[Let's hear it.]] Let us now continue in our busy mood, specifying the agenda. Today's first item, presented by the Social Democratic Party Group, will be presented by Marianne Mikko, Member of the Riigikogu on behalf of the performers. Today's last item on the agenda, Kalev Kotkase and Eiki Nestor, the members of the Riigikogu, will have a presentation on behalf of Eiki Nestor during the debate on the amendment of § 108 of the Civil Service Act 71. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. We have one draft decision on the agenda and six draft laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U6	The first item is the first reading of the 44th draft resolution of the Riigikogu submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. I invite the speech chair Marianne Mikko, who is the initiator's representative. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Keep it down in the hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite a significantly higher level of education for women, according to Statistics Estonia, 70.3% of women in graduate education in 2009 were on average around 30% lower than in men, indicating that the gender pay gap is large. In Estonia, women's employment is higher than the European Union average, while men's employment is lower than the European Union average. Estonia's specialty is also the high employment rate of older women, aged 55 to 64, which is higher in Sweden than in the European Union. However, this does not matter because the largest wage gap in the European Union, according to Eurostat, is right here in the Republic of Estonia. Figuratively speaking, the Estonian woman will receive her salary last year, not on December 31, like an Estonian man, but in mid-April. On average, the equal pay day for a European woman is on 5 March, or 40 days earlier. Remuneration is the main and only source of income for most people, so the difference in pay has a clear impact on women's livelihood and economic independence compared to men. In addition to daily income, lower wages have an indirect impact on the amount of social benefits, insurance premiums, pensions, etc. It also affects access to resources for women and men, such as access to loans to start a business. Thus, the gender pay gap creates further inequalities in our society. A situation where people are treated differently, whether knowingly or unknowingly, by sex is against fundamental rights, so eliminating pay differences is a matter of guaranteeing fundamental rights. The European Union, which also means the Republic of Estonia as a country of the European Union, is working on the economic and employment strategy 'Europe 2020'. Its central issue, the elimination of inequalities between men and women in the European Union's labour market, is very important. The same issue is at the heart of the new strategy for gender equality in the European Union, which has been drawn up for five years. It clearly states that the pay gap between men and women must be eliminated and the proportion of women in managerial positions increased. It is quite natural that Europe must make better use of the potential of half the population, or women, to stimulate the economy. There are 54% women in Estonia. When the Treaty of Rome in 1957 established the principle of 'equal pay for equal work', it was a model of gender equality for the whole world. However, it must be acknowledged that the pay gap is persistent, as is the fact that women still work in softer but underpaid positions. In Estonia, nurses, kindergarten teachers, sellers and cultural workers are mainly women. The five-year strategy for gender equality adopted by the European Commission last year does not preclude legal action on wage transparency, stronger sanctions and regular reporting of the gender pay gap. We Social Democrats are very pleased that, according to the Eurobarometer, over 80% of Europeans support rapid intervention to reduce the pay gap between men and women. Of the citizens of the 27 countries of the European Union, 62% believe that gender inequality is widespread in their home countries. In fact, there are many reasons why a pay gap should occur, and there is no single reason for it to persist, even if it is linked to a number of interrelated factors. One of the most important factors is the concentration of women and men in different fields of activity and occupation. Scientists say that this is a horizontal segregation. Women's long career breaks in parental leave and the unequal distribution of domestic responsibilities between men and women can reduce their career and development opportunities, which in turn leads to a gender pay gap. A more equal distribution of work-life balance between women and men would increase equal treatment in the labour market and would therefore also be an important factor in reducing the pay gap. The participation of men in parental leave should be increased in order to ensure a more equal division of work and family responsibilities between women and men. Gender stereotyping in society helps to reduce the gender-sensitiveness of the education system, as the school plays a very important role in the development of young people and teachers have a strong influence in shaping their attitudes and preferences. In order to reduce and prevent oral discrimination in different forms on the labour market, it is necessary to assess the extent to which wage formation at the level of the organisation is gender balanced and how to make it more balanced. One might think about how and in what form employers should motivate their organisations to assess remuneration by gender and, if necessary, to change their pay systems so that they are gender balanced. In pursuing the reduction of the gender pay gap, measures that oblige employers to analyse whether equal pay is paid for equal work are more meaningful. The methodology used to identify equivalent work is an analytical assessment of posts. Support should be given to carrying out the assessment of gender-balanced analytical positions in such a way that, if the parties wish to do so, the relevant guidelines and trainings are readily available. It could increase the awareness of employees of the average remuneration in different positions. This requires a significant increase in the level of detail and timeliness of national wage statistics. The possibilities for better disclosure of intra-organisational salary information are illegal clauses on the confidentiality of wage information in employment contracts or, in other words, the obligation on employers to disclose their salary information in Estonian. One could direct companies to analyse from a gender perspective and, if necessary, to redesign job design, i.e. which tasks must be carried out in different jobs. To this end, researchers have suggested that the state could methodologically support the analysis and promotion of gender-balanced positions, and that the state could provide financial support for the transformation of jobs so that women can also work in traditional men's positions and vice versa. As social democrats, we agree with the famous Swedish economic consultant Kjell Nordström, who considers the feminization of higher education to be the most decisive of the six directions affecting the future of capitalism. As a result, nothing needs to be done about the labour market with men and women, because things are going to work themselves out. We can no longer agree with this as social democrats. For example, there is a cynical situation in Estonia where a woman in the lower hierarchy of society is much higher educated than a man. It is therefore a staggering point to recognise that higher education levels do not ensure an increase in our country's careers. Consider the latest edition of Economist, 13 September, where it was pointed out that Estonian women are at the top in terms of education, they are just 1 in the world. Read it! There is no doubt that the problem of the pay gap in Estonia must be solved by the government. Whether the name of this solution is an action plan or strategy, it is important that the measures are concrete and the result tangible. It could start with the public sector, make wages transparent and unambiguous. There should be both ties and dresses among the heads of state companies. It is important to give women the opportunity to rise on the ladder so that they do not have to say sadly about Estonia and you have to waver that it is a unique European country where education does not matter and knowledge does not pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U8	Excuse me for a second, good waitress! Colleagues in the Chamber, this is getting really hard! Please, let's listen to the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U9	I've come to the end. Like the other Social Democrats, I believe that the draft decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic', in which we propose to develop an action plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women, will receive at least 51 votes in favour in the Riigikogu. Experience in European countries shows that smaller differences in wages between men and women mean a more pleasant working environment, better people contributing to work, making maximum use of skills and talents, in other words, a better and more competitive economy. After a meaningful debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for which I am very grateful to Rait Maruste, I am convinced that the coalition is not afraid to vote for such a necessary decision in this society. I call on you all to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U10	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Thank you very much for this very interesting and meaningful presentation. It is a pity that we rarely discuss this issue in this large Chamber, although this is a very important problem for all of us. You said in your report that at least 51 votes could support the bill. I hope that 101 votes still support it, because it is necessary for everyone. But now to the question. One institution in Estonia that should deal with the problem of the pay gap is definitely the Gender Equality Commissioner. Do you know how many women have approached him with such concern and have he done anything to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U12	Thank you very much for this good question. Indeed, we have a Gender Equality Commissioner who is running a second term. When Margit Sarv, the first Gender Equality Commissioner, examined his term of office, he was able to say that he received seven questions or complaints relating to the pay gap during that five-year period. In fact, this means that we may have highly educated women, but at the same time they are relatively modest and shy to stand up for their rights. Moreover, the Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment has the right to provide information on salaries, but has no legal right to move forward with this problem. In other words, he can let you know, but he can't do anything about it. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U13	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good colleague! Raising the subject in Estonia is certainly very important. I would like to ask you: what do you think about the introduction of gender quotas in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U15	This is not perhaps a very relevant issue for the issue of the pay gap. But my personal opinion, as I have repeatedly said in the media, is that it should probably be done in instrumental terms. This is also the view of European Commissioner for Justice, Viviane Reding, who does not rule out this measure. Perhaps already this autumn, the 27 Member States of the European Union will be presented with a measure concerning participation in the boards of stock exchange companies, i.e. a gender quota there.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U16	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U17	Thank you. Good waitress! Today, we are very likely to support this proposal and oblige the Government of the Republic to take concrete steps. My question to you is: what role could the Riigikogu play in dealing with this subject further?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U18	Thank you for a very good question. If I now represented a radical line, I would stress my experience in the European Parliament, thinking that the Committee on Gender Equality was among the other committees in the European Parliament. I would not rule out that such a commission, which analyses the prisma of legislation, how it affects men and women in society, is also necessary in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. That's my answer. When you think about what the men asked me in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, one question was whether it was too radical to reduce the pay gap in the way the Social Democrats have proposed: to reduce the gap by a third on the basis of this action plan by 1 January 2013. It's not too ambitious. My answer was the same as it is here today. Look, I am not comparing myself with Lennart Meri, but I want to refer to how Lennart Meri set ambitions for Estonia in the broadest sense. He represented a country with a population of 1.5 million, in Europe and elsewhere in the world, in such a way that we had the impression that there were 10 million. No matter where Estonia was asked about in Europe, when it came to the population, it was still wondered if it turned out to be only 1.5 million. Estonian diplomats from all over the world were covering up this number because it seemed absurd. The ambitions set by Lennart Meri towards Estonia were always great. It was the Reform Party that asked that perhaps we, as social democrats, take over too radically, but I think the bar could be higher. In Finland, for example, such an action plan has been in place since 2005, and if the bar we have set is high, it means that we will act quickly. I do not want our society to be the red lantern on this issue in the European Union, but unfortunately it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U19	Thank you. Please, Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U20	Thank you. This is certainly an important issue and I think that, above all, we need to think about how we will implement it in practice. Let's see the pictures of this hall show more of the concentration of one swamp in this hall. When I watched political parties line up their people on Riigikogu election lists in circles as well as in common lists, it turned out that women generally get a better result from voters than the political parties have placed them. When I looked at it in comparison with the four parties, it turned out that in the case of social democrats, in 21% of cases women have got worse results, in 43% of cases they have got better results from voters than in the order of their political parties. And that's a little worse than comparing the four parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U21	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U22	Are there any signs in your party that this could change for the better in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U23	Yeah, there's signs. And I am absolutely convinced that if the Social Democrats are ever in government, there is not only one minister female.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U24	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U25	Thank you! Good waitress! You rightly pointed out in your presentation that we have a traditional field of study for women and men. But why is it often that sometimes, in the case of so-called traditional women's specialties, pay is not the issue. However, men also reach the top in these disciplines. For example, the most internationally recognized Estonian top chefs are predominantly men. But when you look at the grassroots level at school canteens and kindergartens, we have mostly meal aunts. How do you change that? I haven't even heard a name for a meal. How can we narrow this sectoral gap so that women can reach the top?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U26	I don't know exactly what to say about these diners and dinner aunts. But indeed, when a man cooks in the kitchen, it is not just a lovely sight, but it also means that work and family policies have been implemented at home. It must be acknowledged that this is also a very big problem in Estonia, how much more women commit to homework than men who do much less of this unpaid work. As for promotion among chefs, this is a difficult question and I cannot answer that question. This is a specific issue. But it is generally the case that promotion in the broadest sense should be done according to the principle that the head of the company, the head of the organisation, thinks that there are not only jackets in the board and the board of directors. Everything depends very much on the culture of the company-organisation. In society, more should be asked: if women in our country are much more educated, I do not know if it is our happiness or accident, then where are they? It is an appeal to the media, to us as politicians, but also to the business elite. Let's open our eyes and ears! Let's read Economist again and see where the women of Estonia are at the top of the world! This is no longer a European game, it is a world game. And this is a new paradigm for us. We must get used to the fact that there are educated women in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U27	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U28	Thank you. Good waitress! One way to narrow the pay gap is to see a more gender-sensitive education system. I would like to ask: what is the difference between this and the current education system, and what should the Committee on Culture already pay attention to in its work?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U29	For the faculty! It is worth looking at the pictures in the textbooks that represent what is happening in the home environment. Is it true that Mom has an apron on her, she's in the kitchen, Dad's got glasses on her, she's watching TV, a newspaper, or a book in her hand? These are visual influences that will help children to develop a quiet understanding of who is doing what. And, of course, it's very regrettable when kindergarten teachers only run girls to play with dolls and boys only have cars. Maybe it doesn't have to be exactly the way that kindergartens teach girls just to play their home and deal with boys' technique. They're little things, but that's where it all starts. You have to open your eyes and ears and see how one stereotype gets worse. We turn a new page in our society and look at ourselves very frankly! That's my advice: textbooks!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U30	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U31	Thank you. Personally, I am convinced that Estonian women are very good and practical and are doing very well. I have seen in many companies that women are more successful than men and have taken over almost one hundred percent of their power. Only strength and strength for them! At the same time, I think that women still have the right to make their own choices, whether they are more important or not. Aren't you underestimating Estonian women? When I was here listening to you, it seemed like they couldn't handle anything and were very unhappy and incompetent. We'd rather let them decide for themselves, let's not do it all in advance and in the back! They're not that incompetent.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U32	My answer is, let's get a little ahead and back. Let's not do this again!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U33	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U34	Thank you, good waitress. Good chairman of the sitting! I will add a few drops of oil to this fire, which we now have quietly, thanks to this bill, but rightly burning, this is a very important issue, which I am sure will add something more to our European eyes. But I ask: in the light of this draft decision, should we, for example, review the draft state budget, inter alia, from the point of view of gender equality?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U35	That's a good question! I'm afraid we're not gonna make it this year. But as far as the action plan and the principles are concerned, this is the first step. And it's not expensive. But let's be honest: even if we wanted to, we wouldn't make it this year. So this year, the debate on the budget goes peacefully in the sense that the gender aspect is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U36	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U37	Honourable Chairman! Dear waitress, Each society has its own problems, with its own small problems and major problems. If we take a small problem and create one of the big pseudo-problems of him, we amplify it through the press and television, are you not afraid that family relationships may suffer as a result? It's like a woman's riot all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U38	I am very surprised that this is the question that the Liberal is asking. I'd have thought a Conservative might ask you something like that. But no, I'm not afraid of it. Look, if you're saying that the pay gap is a small problem, there's no way you can agree to it. This is an economic question, in what sense is this a small problem? And if you also think that men and women are more or less in half, or more women are more, is that your assessment of women who are 54% in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U39	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U40	Thank you. I also think that Estonian women are very good and do not need excessive force help. In fact, experience shows that being a woman is a very clear competitive advantage when preparing electoral lists. The statement that women are also being harassed in the public sector, salaries are not transparent, etc. was noted in your speech. Can you give some concrete examples? And the second question: if equality at all costs was your goal, wouldn't it be the easiest option by law to reduce all men's wages by 30%, and the pay gap would have been eliminated?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U41	I have to admit, there is a certain amount of demagoguery on your question, but I don't want to go into demagogue. As regards the question of whether public wages are transparent or not, the Court of Justice classified them. Rait Maruste, who will be speaking immediately after me on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, can confirm that the Court of Justice will classify remuneration as the sum of all salary shares. In other words, we can see the salary number as such, but internationally it is classified as the amount where all the wage shares are represented. It must therefore be acknowledged that our public sector wages are not very transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U42	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! There was a question about the Committee on Culture. You said you should change the books a little bit. But speaking of true equality, the majority of compulsory literature is now addressed to girls. Since you have dealt in depth with this matter, have you thought about proposing a revision of compulsory literature so that there are books for boys?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U44	I don't quite understand that question. If I let the authors through before my eyes in world literature, it seems to me that these authors have been men in the lion's section ever since. You think they've only addressed their message to girls, but I don't think that's true. But I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U45	Thank you. Please, Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U46	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I want to say in a remarg order that the fact that kindergarten is playing home is very nice, because at the end of your life, your family will still bury you. But the question is equality and gender sensitivity. What is the place in this Economist table of Estonian men? And if they're not at the top, then why? Are they treated equally with girls at school or for what reason men's so natural curiosity then at school can be suppressed that they are not at the top of this table?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U47	If I knew, I could get a Nobel Prize. I can't answer that. But the truth is that a very big problem, and not just in Estonia, is the loss of boys from school. The dropout rate among boys and girls is clearly in the boys' favor. And that means that one way to improve the education system is to have more male teachers among school teachers. How can a man teach school? But here we come again to the pay gap: teachers' salaries are not so sexy that men run clogged into school teachers. This is a vicious circle, from which it is not possible for a politician to give a full recipe. It is a question of research and it is a question of political will. We have to look at the question of here we are and there is no other way! And we need to start discussing this problem quietly, unscrewing the ball of yarn, where the end is and where it ends. But it is right of God when Mati Heidmets says that the problem with Estonia is the lumpening of men. This means the situation in Estonia: when quoting Statistics Estonia and Economist, I have already said that 70% of graduates are women, and this is the highest figure in the world: The men must be left behind and dumber. How can education become an important issue for men? I don't know. I really don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U48	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U49	Marianne, when it comes to men and women, wages and pay gaps, I remember the other end of the statistics. This is that a large proportion of men die conscientiously before they retire, thus leaving the pension fund to the women. What have you done as a well - known champion of equality to equalize the lives of men and women?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U50	You know, an educated man can do his life's strategic plan better than an uneducated man. Well, here's actually the question: whether I'd rather work a little less, but optimally, or how I say, quit looking for the meaning of life, just vegetate à la here I am, I like slipping beer in front of the TV, and that's the whole Mayson d'être. My concern for the Estonian man is, in fact, greater than for the Estonian woman. I can't feel how you guys funkate, I don't really know. I can't go inside you and tell you to do this. But I can say this: there are 81 of you here, and there are many in your hands to set an example for many Estonian men. Please do it! Let's talk more about men and women! There are more of you than there are 20 of us here. Indeed, there are very many widows in society, and most of them are poorer than we would like. The fact that they are poorer also comes from the fact that they have been paid less. And I think it's very unfair. Their pensions, their standard of living, are far from what is on average the old Belgian lady.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U51	Thank you, good questioners. I ask that every time a button is pressed when the word is spoken again. Such without registration questions-answer pingpong is not welcome. Everyone has the right to ask a question to the speaker. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U52	Thank you. Good waitress! Thank you very much for setting a very important subject and a good presentation. When we look at the pay gap, we also need to talk about equality in society at all. And we know that Estonia has very big problems with this. We compare ourselves with the Nordic countries, where reconciliation between work and family life is more intelligently organised and also homework is better divided. In these countries, more children are also born per woman and more women are employed. When I have asked our young people about the homework of women and men in social education classes in Estonia, unfortunately, I hear the answers as if we were living in 19th-century Estonia. They count at least ten jobs for women, and then they say with laughter that men have home security, car repair, and newspaper reading. This problem is, in fact, much wider in society than just the pay gap; it is a question of attitudes towards the role of men and women. How do you think we could raise Estonian women so that they would also be more principled and good at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U53	The textbooks and the school system were discussed before, so that the teaching could be presented more gender-sensitively. In this area you asked about, there is much to be done by the media. I actually have to congratulate the Estonian press. Over the course of ten years, I have noticed how such a phily issue has become a topic in which we really look at people: women are one, and men are the other. I see a lot of media explaining roles, portrait stories, interviews, other articles where women speak honestly about how they feel. In my opinion, it is time to talk about feelings in society, both what men feel and what women feel. And if women feel they're tired, they can't, they're gonna have to report it through the media. I don't think men have such a hard heart that they don't understand, just maybe women don't talk about it. So women should be bolder to tell, and the press should be bolder to reflect.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U54	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! According to Eurostat surveys, the wage gap in Estonia is approximately 30%. As far as I am aware, Eurostat does not involve the public sector in assessing this pay gap. Have there also been studies that dealt with the separate pay gap in the private and public sectors? And when it is done, what do these studies show?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U56	No, however, Eurostat provides a cross-section of society across the European Union, and this is the same methodology. Although here, of course, it can be investigated whether it really is that in Italy the pay gap is smaller than in Estonia. One factor here may be that the level of employment of our women is so high, in any case higher than in Italy, Greece, and I also think in Portugal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U57	Thank you. Next question, Peter Kreitzberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U58	Thank you. I think education has a pretty good potential to change things. But do you think that mothers at home would be able to treat their sons differently, so that after that, the result would be a little bit better to eat?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U59	That is a very good question, and that is a very serious question. After all, in Estonia, the town of Viljandi has a large number of single mothers who carry a very heavy burden on their shoulders: they must be out in front of their father and mother. I think mothers have a role to play in raising boys, but fathers actually have a bigger role to play. 'Cause if the boys are picking up on someone in their future lives, it's not so much from their mother as from their father. They're the same sex, and they're playing role models. The boy subconsciously mimics the way his father's dealt with a situation. So I really want to stress that fathers and mothers have a very equal role to play. And in the case of boys, it seems to me, the role of fathers is considerably greater because of the example.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U60	No further questions for the performer. Thank you very much, Marianne Mikko. As co-rapporteur, I would ask Rait Maruste, representative of the Chair Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In a civilised democratic country, people are treated equally, regardless of their gender and many other traits, such as skin color, race and many other traits that are independent of the individual. This is also the case in Article 12 of our Constitution. More than half of our Estonian people are women, and so are most of our constituents. We will take their vote with a coefficient of 1.0, but as the studies show, for some reason we pay good Estonian women wages with a coefficient of 0.7. It means treating them differently than men. And that is why we are discussing this issue here today and why we have before us a draft on the initiative of our Socialist colleagues. When the President of the Riigikogu appointed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as the lead committee. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 6 p.m. on 24 May. No proposal to amend the draft deadline was received. The Constitutional Committee discussed the draft 44 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 13 September. Ms Mikko, the previous speaker, presented the draft as a representative of the performers. Mrs Mikko gave an overview of the examples and experiences that led to the decision to launch a draft proposal to the government to establish an action plan to reduce the gender pay gap. The pay gap between Estonian men and women is the deepest in the European Union, as has already been said here. The average monthly wage for Estonian women was 200 euros less than the average gross wage for men two years ago. The average wage gap between men and women in the European Union is 18%, compared with 31.4% among full-time and full-time employees in Estonia. In 2010, 70% of graduates were women and 30% were men. However, 40% of men with higher education work as a driver or head specialist, while only 18% of women work as a head specialist, which means twice as little. There are clearly distinct professions in which women play a dominant role, such as medicine, education, culture, social work, and, at the same time, are less remunerated. The initiator's representative stressed that the issue of gender equality and the mitigation of the pay gap could be dealt with more broadly by the government, not only by the Ministry of Social Affairs, as it has been so far. The Commission also heard representatives from the Ministry of Social Affairs, who presented Estonia's current situation on the basis of studies on the gender pay gap and EU material. According to these words, Estonia's current activities to reduce the pay gap have taken place in the framework of the European Social Fund studies. The focus is primarily on communication. A survey of the population was also carried out in the framework of the monitoring of equality with a view to an overview of general attitudes and opinions on gender issues. In conclusion, so far, the Ministry of Social Affairs has dealt with the issue in the context of so-called "soft activities," carrying out various programmes, research and communication. The representatives of the Ministry also presented to the Commission the study 'Sex pay gap in Estonia'. A book has also been published on this subject, which is apparently accessible to all. This describes in detail the nature and size of the pay gap and the methodology used to calculate the pay gap in comparison with Estonia and the rest of the European Union. As I noted, according to this survey, the pay gap in Estonia is 31.4%. Compared to 2000 and 2008, the average wage gap was 28.7%, indicating that the gap has not narrowed but has even increased slightly. It also turned out that only 4.8.8% of the pay gap in Estonia is clearly explained, i.e. there is a difference between occupations and activities, a difference in education and speciality, and a difference in working time. The high share of the unexplained pay gap is what creates the idea that our women are discriminated against in the labour market. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs found, after asking many questions and a lively debate, that such a high percentage wage gap shows that there really is a problem, that we need to talk about it and that it needs to be dealt with. In order to have a clear understanding of the origin, nature and ways of eliminating the pay gap, it would be reasonable to increase the burden of addressing the problem from ministerial level to government level and to submit a proposal to the government to draw up a relevant action plan. The gender pay gap is a complex phenomenon involving women's career breaks, gender segregation in the labour market, the human resources policies of organisations, the legal environment, popular attitudes and stereotypes, and education. This would be a political guide to executive activities that would contribute to the cohesion of our society, equal treatment and improvement of Estonian international renome. What steps to take is up to the government. Consequently, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to support the draft. The committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft decision of the Riigikogu be submitted to the plenary assembly for the first reading on the agenda of today. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also decided to include a technical specification in the draft, with the agreement of the draft author. This is because the date of entry into force of the decision of the Riigikogu is fixed, which was initially not included in the draft. The Commission therefore decided to present the draft as amended at first reading. It was also decided to appoint a rapporteur on behalf of the committee here, to put the draft to the final vote and to propose to the Riigikogu that the draft be adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu. Finally, one procedural reply to this question for the future. It's a decision, not a bill. The Government of the Republic is not expected to come up with a specific draft law within the meaning of § 103 (2) of the Constitution, but to develop an action plan. The action plan is a multi-dimensional, voluminous, long-term programme that cannot be formalised as a law. On the other hand, it would also be wrong to believe that the pay gap could be eliminated by the drafting and adoption of a single draft. I know that before the Riigikogu's proposals have been made to the government, i.e. in the case of decisions, the form of the majority of the composition has been used, but I believe that in this case this path is not appropriate, both in terms of the content and form of the proposal in the light of § 104 of the Constitution. The last, that is to say, § 104 of the Constitution, gives an exhaustive list of the laws requiring a majority of the composition and the Riigikogu's decision on this matter is not written there. So our draft today, both in its content (development of the action plan) and in its form (decision), is not relevant for the implementation of the quorum of the majority of the composition. In such a case, a simple majority of votes should suffice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U62	Thank you very much. You have a question. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U63	Thank you very much. Good speaker! There are many aspects to this issue, and there are many aspects to resolving this issue as far as possible. You just said that, and we all know that everything is absolutely fine in constitutional terms. That's what our constitution says. The current decision determines the government as the main actress. However, if there is one institution in the Republic of Estonia, where the situation is almost ideal, it is the Riigikogu. We have the majority of women on the Board of the Riigikogu; the Speaker of the Riigikogu is a woman. The fact that we have only 20 female ambassadors is not the decision of the Riigikogu, but the will of the voters. Doesn't it seem to you, Rait, that the role of the Riigikogu should be greater: not a co-thinker, but a guardian?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U64	I agree that the Riigikogu must deal with important social and political issues. And the fact that we are talking about this subject here today is a good example. The aim of the current decision is to draw the government's attention to the fact that, after all, the government administers executive measures, so that the problem first needs to be clarified in Estonia. We've been doing some research on this at the Ministry of Social Affairs level, but to get a comprehensive picture of what, why and how we have to study things, prepare an action plan, and then come up with it. The Riigikogu can then assess whether the action plan meets our expectations and principles that should govern Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U65	No further questions. Thank you, Rait Maruse! I'm opening negotiations. Margus Tsahkna, Isamaa and Res Publica are the first to register. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U66	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The pay gap between Estonian men and women is a topic that drives passion, but it should be treated as emotionally as possible. It is easy to take the opposite position between men and women, which is by its very nature the wrong approach. Although our standard of living has risen strongly over the past 20 years and we have made the fastest development compared to neighbouring countries, we are still far behind the developed Nordic countries, which are usually our role model. This means that the issue of the pay gap between men and women does not make sense to address the fact that men are paid less, but rather that women should receive equal pay with the same job and with the same qualifications, i.e. actually more pay. Estonian legislation is quite well regulated due to gender discrimination. I think that the pay gap between men and women is not because of the law, but because of the stereotyped thinking in society and because of the more difficult situation of women, in many cases mother, in the competition on the labour market. After all, for a year and a half, it has been more difficult for a young mother to return to the labour market than for a man who did not leave there to pursue a career in addition to himself. A survey of the gender pay gap carried out by Praxis in 2010 shows that the gender pay gap is larger in the private sector than in the public sector. It is also difficult for the state to control the employment relationship in the private sector, as remuneration is to a large extent an agreement between the employer and the employee. At the same time, the state can intervene in public sector remuneration policies by making public sector wages even more transparent, allowing for more control over equal pay. To this end, it is necessary to amend the law on the public service which has been discussed at a very long time and precisely to establish grade levels that are understandable and transparent to everyone. The current situation is to a large extent that half of the civil servants' salaries are made up of all kinds of extra costs, the transparency of which, to put it mildly, is questionable. In reducing the pay gap, it is important to raise people's awareness of their rights. A man and woman with the same qualifications must receive the same salary. It is important to change stereotype thinking and to encourage people to stand up for their rights. And not only women, but also men who often fear the loss of a job do not dare to demand more pay. As you have already heard in this Chamber, Estonian women are better educated than Estonian men. In 2010, nearly 70% of graduates were women and 30% were men, which logically should give women the advantage. At the same time, during the economic crisis, in the last few or three years, when jobs disappeared, less educated men, in particular, became unemployed among those with lower education. From a certain angle, it was women in many families who had a greater role to play in supporting the family. I think that, in the course of the restructuring of our labour market, which is happening in the next few years, the level of education will be a very important factor in the level of pay. In this sense, the labour market itself should regulate the pay gap in a more positive direction, i.e. reduce it. But perhaps one of the most important issues is the reconciliation of work and family life. The most important priorities of the Estonian state are the growth of the population in this respect, at least in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, despite the various political forces, there are no differences of opinion. At the same time, a well - educated woman who wants to become a mother must make a decision about her job and career if she leaves work with her child for at least a year and a half. Can he maintain his qualifications, and does the employer's attitude toward him remain the same when he is a young mother? Does he have a chance to give the child to return to work, and is it affordable? It is also common practice that in the event of a child's illness, it is the mother who stays at home with the child or goes to the doctor, which means even less competitive advantages than men. This is where the state is, and I emphasise, particularly the local governments, to play an important role in mitigating such situations by creating flexible and accessible childcare services for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U67	Thank you. Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U68	Yes, more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U69	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U70	Thank you. The role of the state is to promote flexible working time or part-time work through labour regulations. In fact, single parents, most of whom are women, are in a particularly difficult situation. Often they do not have the opportunity to work because it is impossible to reconcile work and family life. Single parents are in the most difficult economic situation in our society. When we look at households, it is the single parents who are struggling to do whatever they want, even working, near the poverty line or at the poverty line. The next group in this row are families with three or more children. Many of the single parents have died in the ring. You can't go to work because there is no kindergarten place; you can't take a babysitter because you don't have the money and you don't have the money because you can't go to work. This is why reconciling work and family life is what local authorities and the state need to do more. When we talk about the difference between women's and men's wages, it is often the opposite of sexes. The opposite, however, leads nowhere. I'm sure most men want good for women. I think that men's encouragement would also contribute to raising women's awareness of their rights. Each man should be interested in having his wife receive a fair wage that is earned and equal to men, even if it is higher than hers. I am pleased when the Riigikogu supports this draft decision. We are making a very manly, or almost just a man-made government, tasked with developing an action plan to reduce the pay gap between men and women. I believe it is in the best interest of all of us. The IRL Group has decided to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U71	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser as representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've made a pretty significant mental breakthrough. I am extremely pleased that our conservative colleagues have decided to support this very necessary draft. At the same time, I am a little sad that at least some of our right-wing liberals seem to be still in their minds in the 19th century. But I also hope for rapid development in these cases. Perhaps it is appropriate to repeat here some of the reasons why the pay gap in Estonia is as sharp as it is according to statistics, and why it is important to address this problem at the highest level and constantly. One cause of the pay gap is certainly completely direct discrimination, where women are paid less than men for the same work. But this is by no means the only cause of the pay gap and perhaps not even the main one. The issue of underestimating women's work is certainly important. The wages paid for such skills or knowledge - usually done by women - are much lower than those normally done by men. It was certainly not uncommon, especially during the economic boom, to have a family model in which a man who had relatively low qualifications and education requirements, such as a man working in construction, brought home three times as much money as a woman who worked in a relatively high or very high education and qualification, such as a teacher. It is no secret that we have a job where most of the people who do this work are men, otherwise women. Certainly, in such a family, a woman's economic dependence on her husband is greater than it should necessarily be, not to mention the general system of values that will form such a situation. In fact, this is a rather typical case as part of a much wider societal problem, which is not just about gender equality. This is the idea in our society, cultivated for many years, that only the private sector creates the values that the public sector then consumes. It is not taken into account that certain parts of the public sector, such as the education system, are perhaps more difficult to measure, but certainly far greater values in terms of the long-term development of our society than very many low-skilled professions, whether in the public or private sector. The segregation of the labour market is certainly one of the reasons. In the areas of the labour market, where most women are employed, wages are lower, while within the sector they work with lower wages, in the assisted positions more women and in the positions of managers men. There are certainly some traditional stereotypes that affect the choice of specialty and career planning before a person starts working at all. The problem of reconciling work and family life has already been discussed. As a rule, the responsibility for raising children is greater for a woman. This limits women's chances of re-entering the labour market or forcing part-time work, which is why career opportunities are greatly narrowed. These are part of the reasons that have led to the fact that the pay gap in Estonia is, regrettably, the largest one in the European Union. Why is it extremely important to continue to address this problem now and in the future? Firstly, combating the pay gap benefits both employers and workers. This enables better employees to be kept and recruited, which is certainly in the interests of the employer. This will help to make better use of the skills of all workers and increase productivity and competitiveness, but also enhance the image of companies and customer satisfaction. This increases the value of the entire work process. Combating the pay gap also contributes to economic growth. The underutilisation of women's work and skills is actually a wasted resource for society as a whole. We see it most brightly in those countries that are very resource-rich, but where for cultural reasons women are either underrepresented in the labour market or have no access to it at all. Despite their resource wealth, the economic development of these countries is generally hampered. Of course, combating the pay gap promotes social justice and creates equal opportunities, helps to create a more equal and unified society, which is actually the goal of our entire Estonian political process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U73	Thank you very much. Please, Inara Luigas, representative of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U74	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, At a time when there is still high unemployment in Estonia, rescue workers are preparing for redundancy and teachers are rightly demanding a wage supplement, it seems to many that talking about this pay gap is a second- or rather third-rate issue. However, let us compare Estonia with other European countries, where the average wage gap is 17.6% in Estonia is 31.4%. The pay gap in Estonia is the largest in Europe. Which means that we need to speak quite loudly on this issue at European level. A study carried out by the Centre for Political Studies Praxis and the Centre for Applied Research, CentAR, reveals that unequal treatment of women and men in all areas of life can have a direct or indirect impact on people's chances of self-realization. Inequal treatment based on gender is also the reason why resources, including income, have been distributed unfairly among women and men in our society. It affects people both now and in the future. The results of the analysis are reflected in a short summary and are looking for answers to the questions that give rise to the gender pay gap, to what extent the pay gap can be explained by differences in the skills, knowledge and experience of Estonian women and men, and measures have been proposed to reduce the pay gap. We should be most interested in what policy recommendations are set out in the study and what the Riigikogu could do right now using these studies. The emergence and persistence of a gender pay gap is a complex, multifaceted and multi-related process. The elimination of the pay gap requires the acceptance of the principles of equal opportunities and equal pay in society and its provision by law. The Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, for example, was approached in 2009 in relation to unequal treatment in the workplace or in matters of wage discrimination 37 times; in 2008, the Chancellor of Justice solved only three claims of discrimination against individuals. It can therefore be said that the institutions are rarely referred to in relation to discrimination charges. In order to make Estonian citizens better aware of their rights and obligations in relation to gender equality, helping to promote the field of equality should be more actively disseminated and introduced. People should be encouraged to seek more help on gender equality issues, as should people's opportunities and established institutions for assistance. Members of the Riigikogu could also speak more about the pay gap on trips to counties, and the problem could also be introduced to upper secondary school students in civic education classes. At the same time, both the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner and the analysts of the Policy Research Centre point out that gender pay gap as an indicator of gender inequality has often been an issue in recent years and that people's awareness in this area has increased. There is a much more informed approach to the subject, and there is a growing awareness of discrimination. It's just good. Personally, I very much liked the statement by Margit Sarve, the former Commissioner for Gender Equality and Equal Treatment, that this is no longer such a 'can flowers still be given' issue. This is already an issue in Estonian society, where it is trying to understand the substance and to make an increasing contribution. The Centre Party Group supports this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U75	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission has proposed to adopt the draft as a decision and stated in its letter that it requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership. Let's go through the presence check first. 58 delegates have been registered, 43 are missing. Let's get ready for the voting procedure. Let's gather in the hall for the voting procedure, please. I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" delivered by the Social Democratic Party Group 44. Please take a stand and vote. As a result, 77 votes against and 3 abstentions, 44 decisions of the draft decision of the Riigikogu have been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U76	We come to the second item on the agenda: First reading of the draft Act 85 on the ratification of the cooperation agreement on pension insurance between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation initiated by the Government of the Republic. Hanno Pevkuri, Minister of Social Affairs of the speech chair, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Hello, beautiful autumn morning. I am pleased to present to Parliament the draft Act 85 on the ratification of the cooperation agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on pension insurance. The cooperation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Russian Federation, signed on 25 June 1993, and the Protocol amending the cooperation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Russian Federation on pension insurance, signed on 5 November 2002, will apply until 16 October 2002. Both entered into force on 16 October 2007 and, as a result of the Protocol, the Cooperation Agreement expires on 16 October 2011. The purpose of this Act is therefore to ratify the new cooperation agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on pension insurance. This agreement was concluded with the aim of developing cooperation between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation in the field of pension insurance. The main task of the agreement is to ensure that the pension rights of Estonian citizens and stateless persons are better realised. The principles of the new agreement differ from those of the current pension contract. The need to conclude an agreement on the new principles is due to the fact that there have been major changes in the social security of the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation since the pension agreement entered into force in 1993 until now. The agreement has been drawn up in the light of the reforms of Estonia's pension system, as well as Russia's pension system. The European Union's social security coordination rules have also been taken into account. The agreement contributes to the realisation of the pension rights of citizens and stateless persons of the Contracting Parties who have resided in the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation and acquired their pension status on the territory of those States. Compared to the old agreement, which expires in October, the new agreement allows pensions from both countries for the time they have worked there to be combined with the pension periods of two countries in order to give the person the right to a pension. You can continue to pay the pension granted under this agreement when the person receiving the pension moves from the territory of one country to the territory of another country and avoid double taxation of pensions, and the contract also allows for the calculation of retirement age in accordance with the legislation of the Contracting Party which grants the pension and only the pension ages acquired in the territory of the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation to be taken into account. The periods acquired in the former republics of the Soviet Union under the Treaty shall not be taken into account, except in the case of a so-called "third country'. The implementation of the agreement will entail additional costs for the development of the Social Insurance Board's information system and economic costs, but given that both countries will pay for their pension periods, it can be assumed that the cost of paying pensions for the Estonian state will be reduced. The main effect of the Act on the ratification of the Treaty is legal clarity and avoidance of double pensions. The Treaty will ensure better implementation of the principle of a social state for persons as laid down in the Constitution. But, of course, the main objective is for citizens in both countries to receive a pension even after the expiry of the current pension agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U78	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U79	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to pay tribute to all the people of the Ministry of Social Affairs who have worked very hard to achieve this agreement. I very much hope that, in these remaining days, the Russian side will also reach the point where all the deadlines can be met and the agreements ratified in time. But my question is, if you don't get it, then what?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U80	Thank you for your question. The question is very relevant. I very much hope and expect that the parliament of the Republic of Estonia will be rational and quick in its actions and this agreement will be ratified. In order for international agreements to enter into force, an exchange of notes of ratification is also necessary after the adoption of the ratification law, after which the agreement will enter into force in substance within one month. Today, officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs in Moscow will conclude yesterday's negotiations on an implementation agreement, which is equally a prerequisite for the substantive entry into force of this agreement. It can be assumed that, by 16 October, the parties will at least not be able to exchange their ratification letters, which means that negotiations in Moscow are also currently under way on how to enforce the agreement that has already been signed, in substance, earlier. The Vienna Convention on International Treaties, which requires the exchange of intergovernmental notes, provides the basis for this. Elik, if we have received Parliament's approval of this agreement, we will have the opportunity to exchange a memorandum of understanding with the Russian side, or note, on the fact that the parties to the agreement, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Estonia, are prepared to give effect to the agreement essentially earlier and, from 16 October, the new treaty will begin to operate. So there shouldn't be a hole. And most importantly, no pension will be paid to any person; all people will, of course, receive a pension after 16 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U81	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I welcome, of course, the arrival of this draft law on ratification of the cooperation agreement in our Chamber, but I have a question. Perhaps you could give a little more details on whether it was difficult to reach a cooperation agreement with your partner. How labor-intensive and complicated was this process for the ministry you run?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U83	Thank you for your question. Certainly, all social security agreements, which are bilateral, concluded between two countries, are extremely complex. Pension systems are different. We do not have problems with the Member States of the European Union, but when we talk to third countries, there are quite a lot of disputes. It is recalled that, shortly before the Russian Treaty, the Ukraine Agreement was also signed, which will immediately be read in the large Chamber of Parliament. Similarly, negotiations with Moldova, Georgia and some other countries are in the final stages. This process is long. If we look at the Russian agreement, the negotiations started in 2009 and we could already expect that when it ends in October 2011, we will get all the steps done. At the same time, it is clear that there are perhaps more issues with the Russian Federation than with a few smaller countries there, the exchange of data between different Russian institutions and Estonia alone is huge. For example, if a person has come from a more remote region of the Russian Federation, getting his data to Estonia is crucial for people to have the right pension paid out, but it will take time. And since there is a new very clear principle that both countries pay for their national careers, this information is critical. That is why negotiations on an implementation agreement are still ongoing today, so that the correct data will certainly reach us and Russia from Russia. The goal is to get the right pension paid out. Yes, the negotiations were tense, and there are a lot of working hours in it. The Russian people visited Estonia and our people in Moscow, and I too had the honour of discussing everything with my Russian colleague this spring so that we could reach Parliament before October with a draft law. I certainly want to congratulate both my people and the Russians for their understanding. Thanks to this, we are now in the country that no pension will be paid out.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U84	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U85	Thank you. The situation of the people with this new treaty to be ratified will be improved. Russian military pensioners, for example, will receive a pension for the time worked in Estonia. What does a person have to do now? If the Riigikogu has adopted the bill, should it go to the pension service immediately? How do people be informed so that there is no confusion and potential fear?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U86	Thank you. This is a very important issue. No person who is currently receiving a pension needs to do anything directly. When we talk about new pension entitlements and new people reaching retirement age, they will be subject to a new regime from 16 October. Their pension status will be reviewed: which has been collected in Russia and which has been collected in Estonia. In the same way, there will be a reduction in the number of periods which give entitlement to special pensions. There is therefore no direct need to go to the Regional Department of the Social Insurance Board. If a person wants a fort, I suggest you call first. All the information we have planned is that we will take both the Estonian and Russian media after Parliament has approved the ratification law, once again we will organise this information day for both Estonian and Russian media. And, of course, the relevant information goes to the local offices of the pension institutions. So there should be no problem with communication. And most importantly, the people who are currently receiving pensions do not have to do anything further.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U87	Thank you. Please, Meelis Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U88	Thank you. Good minister! You said that both sides would pay their people and that it is estimated that the burden on the Estonian pension system should decrease. Can you possibly tell me how many people on both sides who have earned such a pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U89	It is impossible to say this because our current pension placements and pension arrangements, which we have had with Russia, have written that 'old' retirements are all regarded as pensionable periods. It does not matter whether the pension years have been collected in the territory of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Russia, wherever. The calculation is based on retirement age, i.e. working years. Now, after this agreement enters into force, we are still talking about pension insurance. This insurance will still come from the social tax paid, and both countries will keep a corresponding record. That is why the answer to the questioner was that the persons currently receiving the pension do not have to do anything because their pension accounts have been made on a yearly basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U90	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. I would like to ask for a presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at its meeting on 13 September. The draft Act on the ratification of the cooperation agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on pension insurance was reviewed by Evelyn Hsourcen, Head of Financial Policy and Coordination of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. As you have heard, the purpose of the agreement is to develop cooperation between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation in the field of pension insurance. The agreement contributes to the realisation of the pension rights of citizens and stateless persons residing in the Republic of Estonia and in the Russian Federation who have acquired retirement age on the territory of those countries. The debate was quite long. We were listening to information from a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I also want to pay tribute to the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs because negotiations with Russia have been difficult. The old contracts will end on 16 October. We also had a question, which is why we want to ratify this Treaty here in the Riigikogu, now so quickly and with such a short procedure. We can say that the problems were not on Estonia's side, but Estonia has been trying to contact the Russian side for over a year and a half, but there was no reply, only a few months ago a contact was received. Since then, at least according to the position of the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, cooperation and debate have taken a very constructive form. In the Committee on Social Affairs, therefore, the views on the procedure were consensual. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu decided to send a bill to 85 Riigikogu for first reading on 20 September; the proposal is to finish the first reading. The decision was consensual. We also proposed that the Riigikogu Bureau set the deadline for submitting amendments at 21 September at 10 a.m. and send the draft law to the second reading on 22 September already. This decision was also consensual. However, the Board of the Riigikogu decided that the Riigikogu may not need to be dealt with so quickly. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu convened again on 19 September and proposed to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 23 September at 16:00, to continue the discussion of possible amendments at the meeting of the committee on 26 September and to decide to send the bill to the Riigikogu for a second reading of the plenary hall on 28 September, with the proposal to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a law. These decisions were also consensual. To say more about this procedure, our position in the Committee on Social Affairs has been that Estonia is doing everything in its power, which also concerns the ratification of this Treaty, so that we can make decisions in time. As the Minister of Social Affairs said earlier on the floor, contacts and negotiations with the Russian side are now constructive. As the process in the Russian Federation is simply slower, it concerns the State Duma, etc., they will most likely not be able to ratify this agreement by 16 October. We will not be able to exchange ratification letters, but negotiations will take place so that this new agreement can actually enter into force as a result of the exchange of notes under the Vienna Convention. I hope for an understanding from the Riigikogu, as it was in the Committee on Social Affairs, and I hope that you will support the completion of the first reading of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U92	Thank you. Question from Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U93	Thank you. I wanted to ask whether, on the basis of the current information, the Russian side will be able to ratify this agreement before 16 October, and if it does not, what will happen specifically to the people who, because of this agreement, will be "in the air."
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U94	Thank you. There is definitely a will, but the system is slow. Three readings must take place in the State Duma, and there is also a House of Representatives where another reading takes place. After that, the instruments of ratification will have to be exchanged. There is not much time left until 16 October. However, in the Committee on Social Affairs, the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs answered this question in such a way that there has also been substantial cooperation on the exchange of notes. It looks more or less like we are prepared to exchange ratification letters and the agreement should be such that the Russian side will present a note that we will then accept. In that case, this agreement can actually enter into force. I hope it doesn't go any different. But if it goes any other way, if there are any substantive failures that are not currently visible, then in fact these old agreements will continue to apply on the basis of the so-called cases of international law. Nothing will happen directly to these people, their pensioners, both in Estonia and Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U95	Thank you. No further questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission has proposed to terminate the first reading of the draft Act 85 on the ratification of the cooperation agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation on pension insurance. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 4 p.m. on 23 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U96	We shall proceed to the third item on the agenda. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Karel Rüütel, a member of the Riigikogu, to speak in a chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, With the draft law amending the Study Allowances and Student Loan Act, I am already before the Riigikogu for the second time. The first time, I defended this draft on 20 January 2011. Then the XI Riigikogu decided not to support this draft. The submission of a draft law amending the Renewed Study Grants and Student Loan Act by the Social Democratic Party Group was due to the need to bring the Study Grants and Student Loan Act into line with the principle of legitimate expectations. The expectations of very many young people have been deceived by the state's behaviour. We want those who were allowed to erase the student loan to be restored. I will explain to the new composition of the Riigikogu, XII, why the situation has arisen in the opinion of the Social Democratic Party. In particular, on 1 July 2009, the Law on student grants and student loans was amended and all public sector employees, including teachers, rescue and youth workers, who had not completed their studies and worked in the public sector for a year, were stopped. The partial cancellation of the student loan was also completed for mothers and fathers who had completed their studies and raised a child under five years of age. The law was passed very quickly in the Riigikogu. The Act was amended on 18 June 2009 in connection with the Second Supplementary Budget Act of 2009 adopted by the Riigikogu in connection with the amendment of other laws. It was announced by the President of the Republic on 22 June and entered into force on 27 June. People had the right to submit applications until 30 June to continue deleting their student loans. Due to such a rapid change in study grants and student loan law, many young people have gone to court. They consider this to be an unfair law that violates legal certainty. In making its decision to amend the Study Grants and Student Loan Act, the government, in its impact analysis, took into account the financial aspects in particular and based on the desire to achieve savings in the budget. However, in making this decision, the government did not take into account the socio-economic situation and needs of the students. I also draw the attention of members of the Riigikogu to the fact that the state temporarily suspended payments to the second pillar of pension insurance. As of today, the instalments have been partially restored, and will be fully restored next year. It is not that the system of benefits that has ever been developed should not be changed. The problem is how the law was amended and the consequences for thousands of young people. Over 13,000 young people have, for example, asked the Chairman of the Riigikogu to amend this law. I agree with all those who say that the needs-based education support system, which has so far been rolled like hot potatoes, will solve the situation, but so far there is no solution. I hope that the solution will be found, for example, with the help of the University Act submitted by the Ministry of Education and Research, the Act amending the University of Applied Sciences and other laws. The Social Democratic Party considers that a student grant of EUR 130 should be introduced in Estonia, for example, to which a scholarship could be added, taking into account the socio-economic situation of students. The support must be as flexible as possible and encourage different forms of learning, such as part-time lifelong learning. It helps to devote yourself to studies, allows you to work with a burden, if necessary, that does not interfere with your learning. The draft of the Social Democratic Party is not about reversing the law, but we want to correct the mistake of the previous government and to preserve the conditions and procedures for the cancellation of the previous student loan for young people who studied before 1 July 2009 at a university or university. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Please consider those groups for whom the removal of student loans is extremely important, such as teachers, youth workers, kindergarten teachers, rescue workers, single mothers, etc. Many of them have a compulsory requirement for higher education to work in their posts. They went through paid education and took a student loan to finance their studies, knowing that the student loan would never be returned to them by the state. How do these young people develop confidence in their own country, the belief that the state is responsible for its own words, and that it will not change the law overnight that will affect their economic livelihood in the future? Estonia now stands out as one of the few countries in Europe that does not take into account the socio-economic situation and needs of students when granting grants, but is based solely on student learning outcomes. Tuition fees have increased, but students' social guarantees have not improved. The drafters estimate that it will cost nearly 6.4 million euros a year to write off student loans and 3.2 million euros for parents. These amounts will start to decrease over the years if the obligation to repay the loan is reduced and the number of people fulfilling these conditions is reduced. Maybe it's only EUR 9,6 million. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U98	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U99	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! There is a great deal of positive nuance and fair feeling in this draft. But if, for a moment, we forget this legitimate expectation and we are thinking of what you yourself referred to, that certain benefits should be reviewed from time to time, is this measure, which can attract people to the public sector, justified in the current economic system?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U100	Of course, a needs-based learning support system would improve the situation. This measure was set up in time because the public sector needed good workers and so it was compensated for the fact that the state was often unable to pay these young people fair wages. To them, then, the state guaranteed that their student loans would be cancelled if they went to work in the public sector. This bill does not look to the future, but with this bill we want to eliminate the error. For those people who once signed a student loan agreement, certain laws were in force and they assumed that the state would keep its promises. What concerns the future, I hope, will be resolved by the Needs-Based Study Allowance Act, but this bill looks back and stands first and foremost for the young people to whom the country made this promise in its own time.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U101	Thank you. Next question, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U102	Good Karel! Doesn't it seem to you that this is unequal when people who have graduated from the university and go to the state office get their student loans back? Those who go to work in the private sector or whose parents have paid for their studies will not get anything back. It would make sense that there would still be equality. On the previous draft, we talked about equality between men and women. After all, students should be equal.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U103	Thank you for your question. There are numerous specializations in Estonia for which higher education is required. As I pointed out in my presentation, many young people who once began their studies knew that if they later went to work as a cultural worker, for example, they would actually get lower than the average wage in the country, but the state would erase their student loans in part or in full. It was a state promise or, in a sense, a state guarantee for a very large number of young people. These specialties may not have been very prestigious, but the country needed these young people there. Of course, a system of needs-based learning grants could have been established a long time ago, but since it did not exist, this measure worked in some sense. It is just that, today, very many young people who followed this promise and expected it to be fulfilled are, as if, between the two worlds.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U104	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U105	Thank you. Good waitress! Although the previous Riigikogu actually gave its opinion on a similar draft, I am glad that you have come up with that idea again. If we are going to discuss a new reform of higher education, perhaps we could try to integrate this idea in some way. But here's the question. Have you thought, maybe this cancellation of student loans has lived their lives as a measure, maybe we should look at it more broadly and somehow from a different angle? Have you also studied that there may be some more effective methods to support those people who need help a little by the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U106	Thank you. I recognise the composition of the XII Riigikogu Committee on Culture, which made an extremely positive decision this morning and decided to proceed with this draft. Indeed, it would make sense to look at student social guarantees in a comprehensive way, in a single package. Our bill does not really want to reverse this law. Our draft talks about the young people who started studying before 1 July 2009. We want those people who went to study and took a student loan to continue to do so. For those young people who are now studying, we are developing a new system that is needs-based and takes into account the broader picture. I think we agree, but I also think that the young people who came to study under certain conditions and assumed that at some point the country would fulfil its promises, we are in debt, and it would make sense for them to restore the former order.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U107	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U108	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture has discussed the draft 13 at its meetings on three occasions: 6 June, 12 September and, indeed, as Karel Rüütel said, this morning. On 6 June there was a substantive debate on the draft. In the autumn, we took procedural decisions. In the meantime, the initiator asked himself to remove the draft from the plenary agenda. This morning, on my proposal, we made a decision that, since higher education is back on our desks, it may be wise not to rush into making decisions on this draft and to leave it on the table. Today's Commission decision is to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments on 10 October. 6 p.m. This decision was made by consensus. I will now open a bit of the debate in the Committee on Culture on 6 June when the draft was on the agenda. One of the main questions we discussed with the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research, which was the Ministry's lawyer Kaire Liiv and the Finance Expert of the Ministry's Finance Department, Malle Kurm, was whether the Riigikogu's decision violates the principle of legitimate expectations and whether, as a result, the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group is justified. I also say that the Ministry of Education and Research has presented the government's position on this issue. The Government of the Republic decided not to support this draft. In the event of the entry into force of this draft, the right to write off the student loan by the State would be granted to all employees of the public sector who, before 1 July 2009, entered or studied in the educational establishment referred to in subsections 15 (1) or 15 (2) of the Student Loan Act. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, this amendment brings the law on student benefits and student loans into line with these persons' law. - who began their studies before 1 July 2009 with expectations and thus with the principle of legal certainty. The initiator of the bill links the existence of the right to delete the student loan to the time of entering the educational institution. The representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research explained to us that this assumption is wrong, because the cancellation of the study loan for public sector employees and servants is not a social guarantee for the student, for which he was entitled when entering the educational institution, but an advantage granted to the person who had taken the student loan, completed the study programme in full and worked in the public sector for a certain time. Perhaps this is a benefit for officials and public sector employees, not a social guarantee for a student, which would be somehow linked to the time of study in an educational institution. We also have one Supreme Court decision that dissects a person's subjective right to require the state to perform an obligation. The Ministry of Education and Research, who has studied this practice more closely, explains when and when such a right is created. It is certainly pointed out again that such a right cannot arise at the time of conclusion of the student loan agreement. It is important to note that this has been the case for persons who had a study loan agreement concluded before 1 July 2009 and who are legally entitled to this benefit. We also discussed in the Commission how justified it is to provide such a wage supplement to public sector employees compared to those working in the private sector. There were different points of view. Some feel that this is justified, many feel that it is not. In particular, with regard to the current situation on the labour market, the question arose as to whether we should encourage work in the public sector in this way. Member of the Commission Mailis Reps gave his opinion. In his view, it would be advisable to provide incentives for certain groups, such as student teachers, kindergarten teachers, youth workers. So there was also the need for differentiation. We also discussed the partial cancellation by the state of a student loan for an older child up to five years of age. The representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research explained that it is not wise to link this to the time of entering the educational institution, it is also an advantage and it is incomprehensible why it is granted to one group, but not to another. However, as has been said, today the Commission has decided that it makes sense to continue to address this issue, because we have higher education issues at large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U109	Thank you. Before we go to the questions, one clarification. In your presentation, the deadline for submitting amendments was 10 October. Did you mean ten working days, then the deadline would be October 4th, or did you mean October 10th?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U110	We were thinking about ten working days, October 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U111	Got it! Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U112	Dear waitress, Thousands of young professionals, including many teachers who have graduated from higher education, feel subjectively deceived by the state, and objectively deceived by the Social Democratic Party. We are expected to find a concrete solution to this problem. Please explain how this solution could be linked to the proposed reform of higher education, which concerns those young people who have not yet begun to study. It was precisely this connection that you said was the reason why the draft should be left in Riigikogu proceedings, so give these people some hope that the problem will be resolved positively.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U113	Thank you. There are two aspects. One thing is that, with regard to higher education reform, it is about reviewing the needs-based scholarship system and modernising the system of scholarships and grants in general. This is indeed a forward-looking issue. The second aspect, which I have also pointed out, is whether or not the principle of legitimate expectations has been violated. There were three conditions for the right to a partial cancellation of a student loan. In conclusion, I refer to the position of both the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance, which was based on the Supreme Court ruling that the principle of legitimate expectations has not been violated. When a person enters a higher education institution and when a person enters into a student loan agreement with a bank, he or she cannot automatically develop a legitimate expectation that his or her student loan will be cancelled. We don't even know if he's gonna get a job in the state office or not. We do not have a national referral; the state cannot give any guarantees. It went through our discussions in the Commission, and it is also in the government's position. But since the subject is upstairs, my suggestion was that we don't throw the bill away right now, maybe there's something to learn for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U114	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U115	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The President of the Republic of Estonia urged the Riigikogu only recently that many more interest groups should be involved in their daily activities and work. Can you tell me whether and which stakeholders were involved, for example, in the debate on this draft? The Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance have made their views known. Has any advice or position from stakeholders been sought from outside the government sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U116	Thank you. No more questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 13. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the draft 13 amendments at 6 p.m. on 4 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U117	Thank you. Please, Lauri Swan, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U118	Thank you. Good waitress! It's just like it's gonna sound like it's gonna be bad if we keep discussing this. I think it is very positive that we are trying to do this in the context of the higher education reform programme. Do you agree that, if we start discussing the reform of higher education, we will take matters into consideration in separate blocks and one topic could certainly be, as you yourself said, the whole financial side and, as a separate block, the subject of student loans? If we are discussing student loans in a forward-looking way, why don't we look at a specific draft with it? Do you agree with this approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U119	The answer is short: yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U120	Thank you. Question two, Jack Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U121	Dear waitress, Will this draft remain in the Riigikogu's proceedings as a "learning tool" as you formulated, or will you, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, propose to bring this draft to the Riigikogu for second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U122	I haven't used the term "learning tool." I said there's definitely something to learn from this for the future. It still depends on our joint decisions in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U123	Thank you. This has not been asked in the current procedural schedule, but since the issue is on the agenda and the draft is on our desks, it cannot be ruled out that this can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U124	We are going to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act on the person sent to the nuclear disaster area initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for a chair of speech to Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U125	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Chernobyl Society has repeatedly pointed out to the public the problem that many Chernobyl veterans do not receive support from the state. The unequal treatment of people living permanently in the country is not appropriate for a democratic state. This is also contrary to the principles of the European Union, according to which all residents must receive social benefits and benefits on an equal footing, regardless of their nationality. The purpose of the draft is to provide allowances, benefits and benefits on similar grounds and to an equal extent to all persons sent to the nuclear disaster area living in Estonia. Upon the entry into force of the bill, all persons sent to the nuclear disaster area permanently living in Estonia are legally guaranteed the right to an annual health rehabilitation allowance of EUR 160, the right to visit state museums and song and dance parties free of charge, the right to engage in recreational fishing free of charge, the right to a 50% discount on driving in public transport on domestic routes. These grants and benefits are guaranteed by the Act of the person repressed by the occupation regimes only to some of those sent to the nuclear disaster area. The aim is not to reduce the benefits of beneficiaries, which is why these benefits will also be introduced into this draft and extended to the benefit of these benefits and benefits. Benefits and benefits are paid through the Ministry of Social Affairs through the funds allocated to this purpose in the state budget. The maximum cost would be EUR 264550 per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U126	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U127	Thank you. In fact, this kind of ping pong has been played in society by a bill of law sent to a nuclear disaster area. These people exist, there is a desire in society to adopt this bill and turn it into a law. I have this question: why do you think our right-wing government is so terribly opposed to this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U128	Thank you for your question. You know, there's a statement that all Russian literature has grown out of Gogol's Blue. Rewording: The Republic of Estonia has grown out of the Soviet Socialist Republic of Estonia. The customs and manners of that time are alive. There is one thing being said, and at the same time, something is being done directly to the contrary. Every day equality is being dealt with, and today this issue has been discussed in this Chamber, but it is not wanted to see a particular problem. This year, when 25 years of Chernobyl disaster was filled, the whole world glorified the nuclear disaster's consequences, i.e. those to whom we owe the health of ourselves and our children. Not all of us in this hall, of course, but most of us can't break their Soviet-era instincts. If your child is healthy, you must also, to a certain extent, be grateful to the 1,300 people who are not even wanted to give a free singing party ticket. Such ungratefulness is the legacy of the Communist era. As long as we live with it, the problems of people sent to the nuclear disaster area will not be solved either.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U129	Thank you. Please, Reet Roos!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U130	Thank you. Dear waitress, Can you tell me how much additional monthly support is paid to those responsible for the consequences of the Russian nuclear disaster, in addition to what we have?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U131	Thank you. I'm basically not gonna answer that question. Why is this a principled position? Because every time something bad needs to be shown, the finger is pointed towards Russia, we must not do what is done there, it is undemocratic, it is totalitarianism, etc. Why should we now discuss what is being paid and done in other countries when we have a problem on the table that we ourselves have created?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U132	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U133	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question for self-esteem. Do you know the size of the group belonging to the circle of persons referred to in Article 2 (1) (1) (1) subjected to radiation as a test subject in connection with the detonation of a nuclear bomb? How big is this circle of people, do you know that?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U134	Speaking specifically of the detonation of a nuclear bomb, you might think that this circle is very, very small. It happened, I'll tell you, in 1951 or 1952. Well, I've read that there's almost no one alive from the soldiers who took part.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U135	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I ask the co-rapporteur of the chair, the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on Monday, 12 September. The bill of 29 persons sent to the nuclear disaster area was presented by Yana Toom as the initiator's representative. The draft provides grants, benefits and benefits to all persons in the nuclear disaster area living in Estonia on a similar basis and to the same extent. It was proposed that the Commission send the draft 29 to first reading on 20 September. a. There were 5 and 6 members of the Commission in favour of the completion of the first reading, with no abstentions. According to the outcome of the vote, the proposal is to reject the draft at first reading, that was the decision. When the first reading is closed, it is proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 6 p.m. on 4 October. As you have already seen, Mikhail Stalnukhin, a member of the Estonian Centre Party Group, was appointed as rapporteurs and Margus Tsahkna, the chairman of the committee, on behalf of the Social Affairs Committee. That was what the Commission decided. The Commission also presented the Government's opinion, which was quite long. The government did not support the completion of the first reading of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U137	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U138	Thank you. I think this is a draft that should be discussed and welcomed, because these people definitely need the help of the state. The current accident and ambiguity are caused by attempts to do so under the wrong law. I pointed that out when the law was passed. These people cannot be considered repressed, but they have certainly been sent to the nuclear disaster area and must be helped. In this sense, it is a sensible proposal. We tried to do good to people, but by amending the law, we actually left half the people without help. Do you really not remember that I do not really remember that since when have the people sent to Chernobyl been considered repressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U139	Good questioner! I have to admit, I owe you an answer right now. I can't tell by my memory, I wasn't here to process at the time. But I guess it's been a few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U140	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U141	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! It is understood that inequality here is a fact, there are statistics on this. Please tell me why the coalition is opposed to discussing this issue in the future and resolving the problems of these people in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U142	Thank you. Certainly, the coalition is not opposed to discussing these people's problems in the future. Today we are talking about a specific draft and the decision to extend the circle of persons brought by the Act of the person repressed by the occupation regimes on the same basis as a special law. The government coalition may be against changing this philosophy, but certainly not against dealing with these people's problems. At present, the state has taken the view that, in addition to the same rights that these people enjoy equally with all Estonian residents in relation to the medical and social system, they will receive benefits obtained under the Act of the person repressed by the occupation regimes. These include those who are citizens of the Republic of Estonia and who were employed by the occupation regime in the nuclear disaster area. That's the philosophy that's here. I think that these people's problems need to be dealt with in the future, and the Committee on Social Affairs is certainly prepared to address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U143	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U144	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, You mentioned that the government did not support this draft, but did not explain to us the reasons why it did not support it. I would also like to know whether alternative solutions are offered to solve these people's problems, or whether the answer is that everything is right now, and whether it is satisfied with the existing situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U145	The government's position is quite long and consists of a number of points. There's no point in me starting to read it here. It's accessible to everyone. I'll give you a few points. Almost the same bill was in Riigikogu proceedings in 2008, I think the government's position is more or less similar to that of the time. But yes, there are several points in this view. One is that the Estonian state has decided to grant subsidies to its own citizens through the Act on the person repressed by the occupation regimes. Broadly speaking, it is considered that the rehabilitation side of these subsidies should relate in particular to the countries which have caused these losses. Some formal inaccuracies of the draft have also been highlighted. It has been pointed out that the circle of persons to whom this possible law would extend has not been specifically determined. Expenditure on the state budget has also been highlighted. Initiators have offered €264550 for expenditure, which is not foreseen in the national budgets for the coming years. The initiators are also opposed to the rules of international law. The current regulation in force in the Republic of Estonia is in no way contrary to the rules of international law. Reference has been made to the Geneva IV Convention. These are, broadly speaking, the positions that were in the Government's opinion. But I suggest that those interested read this text thoroughly, its length is two pages.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U146	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! You probably remember this debate and remember what the government representative on the committee said. In fact, he accused the authors of the draft that the budget was imprecise, that dozens, if not hundreds, would start moving to Estonia in the hope of obtaining 160 euros, etc. But we never had a substantive debate. My question is as follows. You claim that the Commission will be willing to deal with these people's problems in the future, and you are talking about the fact that the position of the government has not changed in three years. When could solving these people's problems be considered, when and if the coalition will be able to give up in order to put the issue of citizenship first here? Let's face it, it's citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U148	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, one observation that the representative of the government mentioned is that if we adopt this law in this form, the circle of those who may be entitled to it has not been determined, these benefits would also extend to those who decide to move here at some point. But it wasn't about hundreds or thousands of these people, it was just legal. In this sense, it is not possible to determine exactly what the possible cost of this draft for the state budget. That was the side. When I spoke about the specific concerns of these people, as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I was thinking in particular of the concerns that have arisen from health problems. We need to make sure that they are fully and equally assisted by the Estonian social system and the health care system. When we are talking about this draft, here is a list of the specific grants that these individuals should receive, i.e. we are talking about the EUR 160 support for restoring health, the right to go free of charge to state museums and song and dance parties, the right to engage in recreational fishing free of charge and the right to receive a 50% travel benefit on the domestic route in public transport. However, when it comes to specific concerns, which to a large extent relate to health, these individuals must be taken very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U149	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U150	Thank you. Honourable performer! The government is very clearly opposed to this draft and highlights financial problems and other problems. You on the remote said that the coalition is not opposed, and we should, in principle, deal with this matter. What do you think if we formalise this as a decision of the Riigikogu and propose to the government that this draft be drawn up? Perhaps it would be even better if the Committee on Social Affairs did this draft itself. Could it go like this, what's the exact plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U151	This precise plan was not discussed by the Commission because it was on our agenda to deal with a specific draft. But according to the information of the initiators, there are 1300 people in Estonia who are excluded from the scope of the Act of the person repressed by the occupation regimes. If they have (and are likely to have) problems arising from the nuclear disaster the consequences of which they were sent to liquidate, and if there are proposals to deal with these matters further, even in the form of a decision by the Riigikogu, we will certainly discuss them very seriously. Today has shown that it does not matter whether the proposal is presented by the opposition or the coalition, when the decision of the Riigikogu to propose to the Government of the Republic is discussed, a completely consensual solution can be found in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U152	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U153	Dear waitress, The previous speaker, Mikhail Stalnukhin, was asked how Russia would compensate these people. He didn't answer that question with some cryptic reason that I didn't understand. I did not understand why he did not want to say what Russia was doing. I don't know if the committee was talking about it. Do you know the answer? If you know, why don't you tell us?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U154	Thank you, good questioner! The government's position also reflects the principle that, in fact, it is the country that is the successor of the country in which this nuclear disaster occurred (mostly we are talking about a specific case), should take care of these people, give them incentives or in any way compensate for the damage caused. If these people do not receive these benefits now, I assume that Russia does not provide for these benefits, at least in the form prescribed by the Act on the person repressed by the occupation regimes in Estonia. However, I am not saying this as a final truth, because this issue was not specifically discussed in the Commission in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U155	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U156	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I'm amazed you're talking so calmly about people who took part in eliminating the consequences of a nuclear disaster. But these people are taxpayers of our country and they can count on state support. My question relates to the work of the Commission. You said that six colleagues voted against. Maybe you'll name who they were.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U157	Thank you. As for the roll-call vote, I am not going to read names here. The Social Affairs Committee made such a decision, the ratio of votes was that, and it all complies with the rules of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U158	No further questions. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U159	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize in advance if I get too personal! I have a lot of familiar Chernobyl veterans. With one of them, I have a long and very warm relationship, we're almost friends. It's scary to watch him lift up his shirt and show his scars. I've never seen anyone like this before. He's been through multiple surgeries and transplants. Six he pays about 2,000 kroons for drugs, so little because he usually buys them from Russia, where they are cheaper. He was 21 when he was sent to Chernobyl. He was there for four months. Usually we talk about other things together, but once upon a time years ago, I asked him if he would have gone if he knew what it was going to end with. He told me with the first bang he'd say no, he wouldn't have gone, but if you think about it, maybe he'd be a little more careful now, but he would, because it was the most beautiful thing he's ever had in his life. I was wondering, how's that? He said he didn't have children, but when he walks around the city and looks around, sometimes he senses that the health of those children who walk around and are healthy is his contribution, there's a small piece of his health. I have two sons, most of you have children. My sons were born in the 1980s. Thank God, there's no big problem with their health. But if I imagine it wouldn't have been for the men and women who worked in Chernobyl... What's radioactive radiation is probably what we all know. What would our children look like if these people knew what would be paid for their heroic work in the future? If they had avoided driving there and this radiation had spread across Europe? This place is not far from Estonia. The bill we're discussing doesn't talk about money. 160 euros a year is about the price of one month's medication for Chernobyl veteran. This is an opportunity to say thank you to those people who paid with their health for my health, for you and for the health of everyone's children. There shouldn't be any money accounting here. I understand perfectly that each political group is debating and every political group is deciding. Now the left side of the hall is pressing the red button, the right side of the hall is pressing the green button, no matter what you think. I understand that this situation cannot be changed. You can't just press the other button, you can't pick the red button. But it is always possible not to vote, it is always possible to continue the dialogue instead of cutting off all the ends. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I will take a one-minute break before the vote, giving you the opportunity to reconsider. Understand that you can either press the green button or stay somewhere else, please: let's continue this dialogue! If this doesn't work, we'll take this minute as a minute of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U160	Thank you. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party requests a one-minute break. The application is signed by Kadri Simson. One minute break, we'll resume at 12:29.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U161	Let's get back to the hearing. The commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. We are preparing for the vote. I am voting on the Social Committee's proposal to reject the draft law 29 at first reading on the person sent to the nuclear disaster area. Please take a stand and vote. 48 votes for, 33 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was supported. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U162	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Lembit Kaljuvee, member of the Riigikogu, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U163	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and those colleagues who listen, watch and observe the sitting in their office. In the case of the draft that will be spoken, I have a very good and easy motion to make, because the parties represented in this Chamber should certainly support this draft. They should support this draft because it supports the basic principles that these parties have promised their voters. Surely this bill, when it becomes a law, also for all voters, will appeal to all the people of Estonia. The draft concerns the reduction of electricity excise duty from 2013. Why, for example, would this bill please colleagues at the IRL? The IRL has promised and declared that it will fight to reduce domestic costs. This bill reduces the cost of the average Estonian home by 15 euros from 2013. This bill will cost the entire country EUR 24 million. But I remember that EUR 17 million cost the country the cost of abolishing the tax on homeland. So much for the numbers and why this bill should particularly appeal to colleagues at the IRL. I mean, we're going down this road to cut home expenses. Did everyone hear we're cutting home expenses with this bill? The Reformers also love this bill because they have said that they are lowering taxes, they have been the most tax-degrading party in Estonia ever, in all the ten years they have been in power, only in the last five years have they always raised taxes. Let's do it once, let's humiliate! Come along with this bill, ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party! I'm sure the socialists will love this bill! Because last night, the Soviets gave an analogous bill to the proceedings, they supplemented it. They vote in favour. The Centre Party will certainly vote in favour, because the Centre Party has decided in this way and those who do not vote in favour will be expelled from our group and from the party as well. We have the greatest risk of voting against others, because there are no such paragraphs in the statutes of other parties. So it would be really nice if you could come along with this. It was an introduction. So, ladies and gentlemen, stick to the principles and listen to what this bill is about. The draft states that, from 1 January 2013, the electricity excise duty should be brought to the minimum rate established in the European Union, i.e. EUR 1 per megawatt-hour. Now I am talking about the substance of the draft and the comparative analysis. § 1 of the draft law amends Paragraph 66 (12) of the Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and sets the rate of excise duty on electricity at EUR 1 per megawatt-hour of electricity. According to the current law, the amount of electricity excise duty in Estonia is 4.47 euros, which exceeds the European Union's minimum rate by more than four times. Paragraph 2 of the draft law sets the deadline for the entry into force of the draft law as 1 January 2013. So we have a very long time to prepare it. Now on terminology and compliance with European Union law. No new terms will come into use and this bill will comply with European Union law and the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Next, I will talk about the impact of the law and the cost of implementing it. On 1 April 2010, large consumers in Estonia, whose annual consumption is greater than two gigawatt-hours, are obliged to buy electricity from the power exchange. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the price of electricity in open market conditions has been on average EUR 46 per megawatt-hour, which is almost 50% higher than the regulated price of electricity from Narva Power Plants. From 1 January 2013, the electricity market will open up throughout Estonia, which means that small producers and households will also have to buy electricity at stock exchange prices. Now the impact on consumers. I already said in the introduction that the average consumer will win 15 euros a year in Estonia, with a kilowatt-hour depreciation of 0.42 eurocents. The impact on the state budget. The draft law reduces the collection of electricity excise duties into the state budget. The 2011 state budget estimates an electricity excise revenue of EUR 31 million this year. As electricity prices rise, household consumption is likely to decrease or remain the same. If the electricity excise duty were changed, the revenue from the excise duty would be reduced by EUR 24 million to the state budget. At the same time, the rise in electricity prices increases the revenue from VAT to the state budget. The total electricity consumption in 2009 was nearly 8 terawatt-hours, of which one third, i.e. 2.6 terawatt-hours, are consumed by large consumers who are already buying electricity from the power exchange at a higher price. The remaining 5.4 terawatt-hours price will rise in 2013, resulting in an increase in VAT. VAT is forecast to increase by EUR 0,25 cent per kilowatt-hour, i.e. by EUR 2,5 megawatt-hour, and by EUR 2,5 million per terawatt-hour. The state budget therefore receives an additional EUR 13.5 million in VAT. In total, the revenue from electricity excise duties will fall by 24 million euros to the state budget. The VAT receipts will cover EUR 13.5 million. The reduction in the remaining revenue, EUR 10.5 million, can be taken into account in the preparation of the 2013 state budget. How do you calculate? If the cost of production of megawatt-hours is now less than 30 euros and it costs more than 45 euros on the market, then next year Eesti Energia will make even more profit compared to the current megaprofits, from which it will be possible to withdraw ten million euros as dividends and there will be no worries. So think! The introduction was emotional, but if you look at the bill, you can see that it's actually worth coming along with this bill. We'd give a gift to all homeowners, it's not a big deal, but it's still 15 euros. It's a lot of money, and you can afford a couple of easy meals for it. Really, reformers, we're lowering the tax! With your leadership and support, the value added tax (VAT) on electricity and excise duties has been increased. We have raised electricity prices more than twice in five years if we look until 2013. So think! I will come back once again to the fact that, coalition parties, let it go, as Stalnukhin said, without voting and we will discuss this draft further. It's not some populist or stupid subject, it's a benevolent and pleasant thing for everyone. So let us not vote on this bill today. I see Mr Sõerd is very serious. It is easier for him, of course, that he has been so little in the Reform Party that he does not have to go along with this tax reduction. But still, come along and let's do it, let's discuss this draft further, let's discuss it like Parliament. As the President said here, let us not be the rubber stamps of the party, let us not be the rubber stamps of the group. For example, I dare say that if there is a very good proposal, no matter how we decide, I vote in this Chamber according to my conscience and my mind. You do that, too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U164	Thank you. Kadri Simson, your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U165	Thank you. Mr. defender of the bill! I have a question for you. More or less public knowledge is that if the electricity market is opened from 1 January 2013, domestic consumers will be expected to increase. Conservatively, this price increase is 30%, and there have also been 40% and 50% of the price increase forecasts. How will the Riigikogu find out what price increase will be facing domestic consumers in less than a year and a half? What are the other ways to soften this tide?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U166	Thanks for asking. When I answer the second part of the question, I say that the Riigikogu can influence the price of electricity through taxes. We know that almost a third of the consumer price of electricity is tax. We can change the value added tax on electricity, create a difference here for both households and businesses. We can create differences in value added tax for households if we want to lower the price of electricity. The second is the same proposal on excise duty; the third is renewable energy charges. These three taxes directly increase the price of electricity. In addition, we know that Estonia currently owns one hundred per cent of the electricity producing and transferring company. With the will of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the so-called owner of this company, it is also possible to channel the price of electricity to one side or the other. Unfortunately, in recent years it has been directed upwards. The owner's will has been such that electricity is expensive for consumers, which is why the price has increased. Of course, what we cannot contribute to is the market price. We really need to start buying on the market, but we're also selling on the market. Estonia is in a good position in this respect that we also produce. If electricity is expensive on the market, then Eesti Energia, if it sells to the market, will benefit and this benefit we can share in this hall. I forgot the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U167	Thank you. We don't answer the questions we've been calling from the spot. Enn Front, please, next question!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U168	Thank you very much. Honourable speaker! Very often, comparisons become clearer and sometimes the truth becomes clear. In the European Union, many countries, including Latvia and Lithuania, have the right minimum rates for electricity taxation, whose standard of living, according to statistics, is lower than our own. Perhaps you yourself have studied whether Latvians and Lithuanians consider their not the best economic position to be the reason for using this minimum rate, or whether, despite the relatively poor economic situation, people are being tried to meet and give them a little bit more ease in this crucial sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U169	As regards the price of electricity in one country or another and the standard of living there, the price of electricity actually has a major impact on the standard of living and on the state's economy. Today, production is energy-intensive and, if the price of electricity is high, the investor monitors it and makes decisions based on it. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are in very different situations. We have fought in this Chamber to have our own electricity so that we can also cover our maximum needs. Latvia and Lithuania cannot do this. Indeed, by looking at the behaviour of these governments at the cost of electricity, we can see that they have behaved contrary to us, they have met their consumers and they are not burdening electricity with taxes, as we have been busy doing in recent years.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U170	Thank you. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U171	Thank you. I have, performer, a question for you. Since you're not looking at the right side of the hall asking any questions, they don't care about the subject, maybe the right parties and the government coalition have no interest in the price of electricity being lower? Didn't you get that impression, old powermaker?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U172	I don't know what these parties are thinking, but I see how they behave. Behavior has been such that much is done to ensure that the price of electricity is high. Unfortunately, that is the case, and so far, there is nothing we can do about it. What if they change their mind? I haven't given up hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U173	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U174	Thank you. I do not, of course, respond to Mr Leng's comment, and I do not expect him to. But I'm asking you, because Kadri Samson's question was left unanswered. I got a scold when I reminded you of that. How does the Riigikogu know how much electricity prices are rising, whether 20%, 30%, 50% or 60%? So how much does it come up, and how do we find out?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U175	How do we know? We have the Statistical Office. I think that on 1 February 2013, we will find out how much the price of electricity has risen. Looking at the forecasts that are currently being made, it has officially been said that the price increase is at least 15% or 30%, I must say, in the light of my experience and looking around, that the increase will be higher. I am absolutely convinced of that. But what exactly is it going to be, we'll find out when it happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U176	No further questions for the performer. Thank you, Lembit Kaljuvee! I ask Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Commission for a chair! Just in case, although we have eight minutes until the end of the sitting, we will hear the report. There will be up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U177	Thank you for your kindness, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed draft No 33 on 12 September. The debate on the economic forecast was also on the agenda on the same day. Just like the world, our finances are quite serious, so I have no fun in the context of discussing public finances. The Government of the Republic did not support the draft. The government's position was quite brief, but very substantive. The Government considers that the price increase resulting from the complete opening of the electricity market is not appropriate to mitigate the reduction in electricity excise duty, as the price increase is not related to taxation. It is not right to use tax policy as a mechanism for regulating prices. The government does not consider this right or possible, given that excise taxation serves both environmental protection and budget implementation objectives. In a very brief and meaningful way, the whole thing has been discussed here. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, was also present at the debate in the Commission. The draft was presented by Kalev Kallo, a member of the Centre Party Group. There weren't many questions. One question was, it was put by the speaker here. As the previous speaker said, the draft represents a reduction in the revenue of the state budget by 24 million euros. I specified it at the Ministry of Finance. In fact, the impact is EUR 26 million. I asked where they'd find a source of cover. I didn't get an answer to that question. There were no further questions. The Minister explained the principles of taxation in more detail; he also referred to discussions at the European Union's Council of Finance Ministers in Ecofin, where consensus has been reached that energy taxes are not being played and are not being reduced. As far as electricity excise duties are concerned, their share in electricity prices is quite small. It's 4.4% now. Reducing it to one euro per megawatt-hour would mean that the share of electricity excise duty would decrease from 4.4% to 1%. You can calculate for yourself how much impact this will have on the price of electricity. It's not significant. I also want to clarify what the previous speaker said. The explanatory memorandum refers to VAT as a source of cover. The draft does not increase VAT revenue in any way in the state budget, rather reduces it. I continue to take this view, which I also expressed in the Commission, that the explanatory memorandum is misleading in this respect. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda on 20 September (there was consensus in the Commission) and the second proposal was to reject it at first reading (with 5 votes against and 3 abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U178	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U179	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, You weren't exactly correct in your report. There is a cover for the draft reduction of electricity excises initiated by the Central Party. Indeed, if the price of electricity increases by 30% from 1 January 2013, the State will make a very high return on this increase in electricity prices. It receives much more value added tax than it has received from electricity so far because of the increase in prices. Would you like to show us what kind of money you think the state budget will earn because of the increase in electricity prices? This is why the government likes the increase in the price of electricity, because more money comes into the budget. How much is planned to increase VAT receipts from 1 January 2013 when electricity prices rise by 30%, as the Ministry of Finance has offered?
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U180	Thank you for your question. Once again, I did not get an answer in the Commission to the question of where this particular draft can be found as the full opening of the electricity market and the resulting projected price increase, as well as the increase in VAT receipts, do not concern your draft, because your draft, in addition to excise duty, will also reduce VAT receipts and not increase VAT receipts. The excise duty will decrease by 26 million euros, and there will also be a reduction in VAT receipts. This is, for example, the same order of magnitude as the one applied for to increase the pay of teachers. You don't have a source of cover for that amount. If, for you, budget revenue means something in the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, page 147, my opinion is that it is an important amount in the state budget and it is not right to give up this amount as a result of the reduction in excise duty. Moreover, we cannot predict how much the reduction in excise duty will affect the price of electricity, because the forecast of the price of electricity depends on the volume of the electricity market, how the transmission system connections operate, how energy producers in the Nordic or third countries supply electricity here and many other factors. But with regard to VAT, I can answer. The figure of EUR 12 million is the amount of VAT, which is also taken into account in the Ministry of Finance's latest economic forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-09-20_U181	Thank you. Unfortunately, we cannot deal with this item any further. The item will be closed and will continue to be dealt with in tomorrow's session. Thank you very much, everyone. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
