ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U1	Good morning, good fellows. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Good colleagues, police officers were attacked during yesterday's police operation, and one of them was killed. Attacking police officers in the performance of their duties is a direct attack on the Estonian state. I beg you to rise to the silence of mourning! [[The silence of grief.]] Now I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries! Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a draft from the Central Party Group entitled the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. It was announced this morning in the news that the government intends to come to the Riigikogu by amending the same law. He wants to change tobacco excises more precisely to lift it. The Centre Party will certainly support this draft when the government presents it to us, and we hope that the government will also support our draft. The amendment proposed in our draft relates to Paragraph 66 (12): we would like to change the electricity excise duty so that it will be EUR 1 from 1 January 2013, as required by the European Union. The corresponding calculations have been made. In yesterday's briefing, the Prime Minister assured us that the price of electricity was normal, and he gave us all sorts of figures to confirm. However, he spoke about the price of active electricity, which we really do have low prices, but we currently have a consumer price of 10.4 euro cents for the household consumer. It is 10 cents in Finland. So there is a price increase to be expected and we would like to compensate for it for the people and also for businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U3	I ask the Riigikogu speech chair Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and nine other members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will report an inquiry to Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seedri. The concern is that the state has committed itself to maintaining economically important and strategic upstream flows in terms of drainage. This work will depend on 386000 hectares of dried agricultural land and on the use of 271000 hectares of dried forest land. Unfortunately, the money earmarked for this purpose in the state budget has dried up in recent years, more precisely five times. It is difficult to require landowners to maintain proper drainage systems in their own country if the State fails to comply with its commitments. On this issue, we have four questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U5	Good fellows! On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides how to deal with them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I'm gonna pass on some messages now. First of all, the Board of the Riigikogu is the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and the Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts, who has submitted questions to them about the members of the Riigikogu. Secondly, good members of the Riigikogu, today, after the plenary session, the opening meeting of the Narva Museum and the Bastion Support Group will take place in the Chamber. It's called Juku-Kalle Raid. We're looking forward to active participation! Good fellows! We're conducting a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U6	Now, let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of draft No 15 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Control of the National Budget' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to ask Väino Linde, member of the Constitutional Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It must be said that, after first reading, neither the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups nor the Riigikogu committees submitted amendments to the draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself took a serious look at this draft again yesterday, on 3 May at its regular sitting, and we stuck with what I said on behalf of the Commission after my first reading in this Chamber: our proposal today is to conclude the second reading. Since this is not a bill, but a draft decision, it is possible to adopt it today as a decision. As no amendments were tabled, the text at first reading is identical to what we are looking at today in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U8	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to bill No 15 have been received. The position of the lead committee is that a final vote should also be taken today at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I will put bill 15 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft No 15 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Special Committee on Auditing the National Budget' submitted by the Constitutional Committee has been adopted as a decision. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U9	We go to the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by Deniss Borodichi, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, No amendments have been tabled to this draft either. The Constitutional Commission, as the lead committee, discussed the draft at its meeting on 3 May and decided to propose sending it to second reading. I also propose that you take this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U11	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? There are no requests, so negotiations will not be opened. No amendments to bill No 16 have been received. The position of the commission is that a final vote should also be taken at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I shall put Bill 16 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft No 16 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities' submitted by the Constitutional Commission has been adopted as a decision. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U12	We go to the third item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like the Chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rait Maruste!
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There were no additional proposals for this draft, too, and so the Commission considered it right to submit to you today for adoption the same text that has already been before you. I call on you to vote in favour of this bill. Finally, however, I would like to make a comment that it cannot be considered reasonable or reasonable that the setting up of special committees takes so long in procedural terms compared to the setting up of permanent committees. This has prevented people from taking up employment, including this Commission. Perhaps it would make sense that we take this order and try to speed up and shorten the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2011-05-05_U14	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments have been received on bill No 17 and the position of the commission is that a final vote on the draft should also be taken at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? I shall put draft decision No 17 to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. Draft No 17 of the Riigikogu's Decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' submitted by the Constitutional Commission has been adopted as a decision. The third item is closed. Good fellows, that concludes our hearing today. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10:14 a.m.
