ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4266	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, the distinguished members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tegeltija, the respected media representatives, I am opening the 3rd session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. The Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome, once again, all present representatives and guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] At this point, the absence from the session was justified by representatives Nenad Stevandić and Damir Arnaut, and there are currently 40 MPs and MPs present at the session, which means that the session has a quorum for full work and decision-making. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions in oral form in previous issues, I would like to introduce you to the fact that the Central Election Commission of BiH delivered a decision on 14 January 2020 to suspend and assign the mandate to the next qualified candidates, namely the Central Election Commission of BiH determined the termination of the term of office of Staši Košarac, a representative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on 26 December 2019 for appointment as Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The vacant mandate was assigned to Ljubica Miljanović as the next qualified candidate from the list of political entities of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats (SNSD). Mrs Ljubica Miljanović signed a Declaration of acceptance on 16 January 2020. The Central Election Commission also established Vojin Mitrović's resignation as a representative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on 23 December 2019 for the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Minister of Communications and Transport. The mandate was granted to Sanji Vulić as the next qualified candidate from the list of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats (SNSD) political entity. Miss Sanja Vulić signed a Declaration on the acceptance of the mandate on 16 January 2020. I call on the president of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Branko Petrić, to give Ms Ljubica Miljanović and Ms Sanji Vulić assurances about the mandate. Here you go. /handling the assurance of the mandate/ I now urge Mrs Ljubica Miljanović and Miss Sanja Vulić to join in giving a solemn statement to take over parliamentary rights and obligations. 2 /PUBLICATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE PUBLICATION
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4269	I'm obliging myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4270	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4271	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4272	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4273	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4274	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4275	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4276	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4277	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4278	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4279	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4280	Congratulations again.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4281	Thank you. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4282	Okay. We continue, as you are indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda for MPs, it is possible to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form in the planned, business-planned deadlines were submitted by MP Predrag Kožul and the foreign minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These announcements were made in accordance with Rule 168 (2) of the Rules of Procedure by the Chair of the Council of Ministers and to the member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that a direct and direct TV transmission of this part of the session is provided in accordance with Rule 167 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can also start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4283	Thank you. Comrades and colleagues, distinguished guests, all present at today's session, I warmly welcome you and wish us successful work at this session today. My announced oral question was addressed to the foreign minister, Mrs. Biseri Turković. Here, as we can see here, Mrs. Turković is not present for today's session, but I will, because the only question is that and to fill this agenda point, I would still ask that question, and I would like to ask it, I would insist that I receive a written answer from the minister. There is a deputy foreign minister, but this question I'm asking is not in his jurisdiction, so I won't insist on him answering that question. The Internal Design Regulation of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Article 43(40) says – The Czech Republic-Prag Ambassador continues to write, in addition to the general conditions prescribed by the law, the ambassador must meet the following special conditions: the high professional prepares VII degree of expertise, completed university. As the public, and we know here, in the appointment of ambassadors of the recents concerning the Czech Republic by the BiH Presidency, a person who does not meet this special condition in the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is proposed. At the last session of Parliament, we took a very principled position, in particular the Club of Representatives of the DF on the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Service of Parliament of BiH, so that this principle gives us the right to insist on the same approach at the level of the Council of Ministers and individual ministries, and I hope that this principle will find an echo in the business of the Council of Ministers, individual ministries, and especially in these very concise appointments, very important appointments. I will also ask the Minister, as very interesting, how to solve Any appointments, question of working-law status of the appointed ambassador, pay issue, coefficient, and in accordance with this Internal Design Regulation? [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, I don't want to be any longer, I've wasted my time, I'm going to insist on the written answer with the setting, of course, I'm going to deliver a precise written inquiry to the minister to make it easier to answer. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4284	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Kozul. So, he's going to send this in writing. As far as I can see, we don't have any more registered agents to ask oral questions, and we can move on to the agenda. As for the change of the session's agenda, I would like to inform you of the following, from the agenda of today's session are downloaded: Point 2. Confirmation of the appointment of the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. It was removed at the request of the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. extended for one of the next sessions because of the need for further consultations and co-ordination. Point 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina (E.) proposed: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-84/19 of 07.01.2019 (first reading), and at the request of the Finance and Budget Commission, which requested an extension of the deadline for the submission of opinions on the proposal for this law and the College approved an extension of the deadline. Point 26. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017, issue: 01,02-09-1029/18 of 23.04.2018. It shall be removed from the agenda according to the notice of absence of the applicant. Point 30. A review of the Aida Baručija's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15), I refer to a parliamentary initiative which obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to carry out an analysis of safety and technical equipment at train stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina," issue: 01-50-1-1655/19 since 18/09/2019. This item was downloaded at the request of the Commission for Transport and Communications. Point 32. Consideration of Damir Arnaut's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I submit a parliamentary initiative requiring the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport to prepare and submit in the procedure amendments and additions to the Law on traffic safety on the roads to BiH, which would significantly strengthen sanctions for motor vehicle drivers in the practical management of the vehicle, which would determine the amount of alcohol in the blood of more than 1.5 g/kg (Article 174). (2) Law)’, number: 01-50-1-2130/19 of 11.12.2019. At the request of the Commission for Transport and Communications, and due to the absence of the initiative's promoters. This point 37. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Republic of China on Animal Health and Quarantine co-operation, No: 01,02-05-2-2552/18 of 27.11.2018. Point 45. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the governments of the other members of the disaster preparedness and prevention initiative in South-Eastern Europe on the arrangements of the host country for the South-Eastern Europe's Secretariat of the Initiative for the preparedness and prevention of disasters, No: 01,02-21-1-897/19 of 26 April 2019. Point 47. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on cooperation in the field of tourism, No: 01,02-21-1 1496/19 of 20/08/2019 and 5 Point 56. The approval of the ratification of the Amendment to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (Amendments of Campale), number: 01,02-21-1-2224/19 of 23.12.2019, which was removed from the agenda at the request of the Commission for Foreign Affairs. Therefore, points 37, 45, 47 and 56 have been removed from the agenda at the request of the Commission for external affairs. Now I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4285	I would like to thank the chairman, and I would like to welcome you, the deputy, fellow Members and fellow representatives, all present, of course members of the Council of Ministers whose presence I am looking forward to, and I hope that there will be practice. The agenda point – The appointment of the Minister of Human Rights has been removed from the agenda and I understand that the proposer can do so and that is in line with the Rules of Procedure, but it is a very important issue and it would be good to get information on why it was downloaded from the agenda, what is the problem with this appointment. As far as I'm concerned, the SDP Club's Decision on the appointment of Mr Božović should never have been put on the agenda, and we made our position very clear after the Commission's election of the Council of Ministers, where we believe that the candidate does not deserve to be a minister by his knowledge. However, if most have already accepted that this is so, then we deserve as Parliament and the public to say why it is being downloaded today, whether Mr Božović is no longer a candidate or is a candidate but is waiting for the conclusion of the trade that the appointment implies. I think that at the very beginning and the new Council of Ministers and the new parliamentary majority should be transparent and offer that response to the public. The second thing is the chairman, and it is related to the appointment of Božović, it may not be right for me to ask you, but I do need it. Do you have any information why the Council of Ministers does not hold meetings, is this about the appointment of Mr Božović, is it a quiet blockade, is the Council of Ministers in a blockade? Why would I ask that? So because they held one session and announced the next for the 23rd, one session will be held in a month. In the past term of the Council of Ministers, which you chaired, held six regular sessions and an extraordinary one in the first month. In his term of office when Mr. Bevanda was chairing in the first month, there were also very many sessions. So this Council of Ministers doesn't hold meetings for some reason. We as Parliament should also have that information which is why the Council of Ministers is in a blockade, and we see it through the agenda, we haven't received, is there anything that would be an illustration of the work of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4286	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4287	Thank you, chairing and welcoming fellow Members of Parliament and all present guests and members of the Council of Ministers present at this session. 6 I would like to say something similar about what Mr. Magazinović said, with that in order to complete another fact with this discussion, because I believe that the process of forming the Council of Ministers is not finished, that this Council of Ministers is not legitimate, is it not established and formed in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, it is not legitimate that there is a clear provision that one member of the Council of Ministers must be of the order of the others and we see that this member of the Council of Ministers is missing from the order of others, so I personally believe that all decisions taken by the Council of Ministers will be unconstitutional, or illegal, and the question of the legitimacy of these decisions will be raised. And I, as far as I've seen and read from the media and learned from the towers here this session, that there is, let me say, already one conflict, which could have been assumed not to
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4288	The debate is on the agenda, Your Honor, this could have been a question, and now this is a debate on the agenda, this point is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4289	Okay, so I ask that the agenda be complemented with this point – the election of members of the Council, or the Council of Ministers from other peoples and that it be discussed. The second thing, based on Article 71. I propose to the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Parliament to supplement the agenda to point 4. Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Programme, November 2019 – November 2020 I have this in writing, I'm going to give this service to share this to the MPs, just for the reason that I owned an original version in English of this document, translated it into an authorised court interpreter, translator, and here you see obligations and responsibilities. The responsibility of the BiH Parliament on this programme. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I don't want to tell you how negative and false he is. the signatories of this Programme, this and what is in it, but precisely because of the obligations and responsibilities of Parliament that are being imposed here in this Programme before us, I think we need to discuss this. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's why in the name of
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4290	Deliver in writing a proposal for addition. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4291	We'll deliver, I have another proposal, that within half an hour, you give the service a break to print this document and share it with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4292	The debate is about the agenda, no breaks, you just deliver it here to our secretary, we will act in accordance with the proposition and provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, distinguished representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4293	Dear Chairman, members of the Kolegijum, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected colleagues on behalf of the SNSD Club, and on the basis of Article 71(3) of the Rules of Procedure, we propose a new item of the agenda that would be, our proposal would be under 26th and would read – a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We've prepared the material, prepared it, delivered it to the office, I hope they're professional services, that they'll share it with you at the moment. The explanation for this proposal is evident, bearing in mind that our two new colleagues at the Club today took an oath and we need to fill our seats in the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives, I ask that, please, all colleagues accept this amendment and supplement the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4294	Okay, thank you very much. We don't have any more log-ins to change and supplement the agenda. It is obvious that we will need one shorter break to share these materials so that all MPs and clubs can show about the proposed additional points of the agenda and the vote on amendments and additions to the agenda will take place immediately after the break. I think ten or fifteen minutes is enough, if that's okay with you. _________(?) 15 minutes. [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4298	Honorable MPs, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I know it's unusual for a member of the College to appear for the record, but I'm trying to draw your attention to one of the Rules of Procedures which, in my opinion, has long been interpreted wrong and there has been no other reason than to point out the minutes and points 14 and 15. I have a slight view of how we voted and how we got to the conclusion shows that something is wrong. Namely, here is the example for point 14, the report was said to have been adopted in the second round of voting with 18 votes in favour, one against and 19 abstentions. So, of the 38 present 18 he voted in favour and the report was adopted. Anyone who learned to count in elementary school sees that there's something wrong. Of course, it's about the Rules of Procedure, our Rules of Procedure, who I think is misread. And here's to remind you, Article 85. The Rules of Procedure say, "All decisions in the House are made by the majority of the votes of those who are present and those who voted." So I repeat, those who are present and those who voted. As it says in the record and as interpreted, those who have been abstentions are counted as if they were not present. So, you or me, if I was here, too, who were restrained, count on you not being present in the O.R. I have to say, it's a little insulting to my common sense, and I'm sure it's not right. And I know why it's like this, the program we have here, it's been interpreted by some OHR reference officer 10 years ago, and he says this is okay. So at the very least, we either have to change the Rules of Procedure or we have to change the program that's here. I'm not into changing Rules of Procedure, I think he's good. I don't think those who are abstentioned, and in the O.R. and voted, can't count, can't be here anymore, and can't be done like this, but I don't think we can have a discussion about the logs today, or that we should. I have a proposal, Mr. Chairman, and for all of you - I suggest that the House assigns the Constitutional Commission to examine this case as a whole and proposes a solution to the House. I know the College is interpreting the Rules of Procedure, that we could have done it that way, but I think this is a much wider and much bigger problem because this is what we've been doing for 10 years. Someone noticed, someone didn't, someone listened, most of them listened to this OHR interpretation, and I think we're on the wrong track. Therefore, my proposal is to assign the Constitutional Legal Commission to examine this and hold a debate on this at one of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4299	Okay. Thank you to my esteemed colleague, Radmanović. 13 We will naći, of course, the form of how we will introduce this proposal to the procedure itself. We're moving on, point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions In accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in written form were asked by the following MPs: Aida Baručija asked 32 questions, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic 32, Zukan Helez asked one question, Saša Magazinović asked 16 questions, Mijo Matanović asked one question, Predrag Kojović 4 questions. I would like to note that in the last session held on 18.12.2019, the questions raised because of the absence were not commented by representatives Saša Magazinović and Branislav Borenović, and representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, who noted that the answers were not delivered to him. In light of the acts delivered to lawmakers, it was found that there were answers to the questions asked by MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Representative Nikola Lovrinović said at last session that he reserves the right to comment on a part of the response he did not comment on at the session. So, the following answers were delivered to today's session: the question of Saša Magazinović was submitted to the service records by 143 answers, the questions of Branislav Borenović were submitted 3 answers, the questions of Šemsudin Mehmedović were submitted to 6 answers, the question of Nikola Lovrinović were delivered to 4 answers, the questions of Damir Arnaut were submitted to two answers and the questions of Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic were answered by one answer, so between these two sessions. Here you go. Do you have any comments on the answers received? First came the distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4301	Okay, that large number of answers has been caused by a large part and that Parliament has not sat down and quite logically that I cannot comment today on 143 questions, to use just 90 seconds in the answer I received, that would be almost 13,000 seconds or 3 and a half hours. Since I do not want to look like Fidel Kastra, I will use this time just to thank all the institutions who have answered the questions, no matter to which extent I am satisfied or not, and I will find a way to comment or carry out activities related to these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4302	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4303	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the guest of honor. 14 I have received several answers to my representative's question about discrimination against police officers in police agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are retired by the resolutions of those agencies. The pension right cannot be obtained in the Federal Pension Disability Insurance Fund for reasons of non-compliance with the legal rules between the Federation and the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, in the answers I received from the federal PIO, from the Federation government, from the Federal Ministry of Social Policy, it is obvious that people will continue to suffer this discrepancy or discrimination that I was talking about, because they are implementing federal, federal-level laws, and here we have people who have been sent into retirement by law force, and cannot achieve, meaning, the right to pensions that they spent in agencies, police agencies at BiH level. So it's obvious we still have a problem, but I don't see anyone getting seriously caught up in, in terms of solving this problem for police officers who have retired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4304	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4305	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome everyone here in the hall. So, you've said how many I've asked questions, they seem to me, eight and one initiative. Some of the answers I have received are still this finding that I have not received some answers when it comes to the migrant crisis, for example from the Commissioner of the Bihać Municipality who have been waiting for over two or three months, I am asking again to insist on delivering my answer, although now some of the answers I will probably get are not even more current, but I insist on them to get it, and then I will comment again, I am talking about it, in the wholeness of the questions I have asked to the Border Police and the Council of Ministers when I get that answer. The other questions I asked were two BiH prosecutors. One refers to the processing of war crimes in the village of Bikosa Municipality of Travnik, following the burial of 19 identified gunmen, killed in the village. We also have no answer for the murder of the Guardian and the Chaplain monastery in Fojnica, we also have no answer. I insist that the D.A. be asked again to give me your answers. I have no response to the initiative I sent to the Council of Ministers when it comes to the transportation of employees to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The answer I received was from the head of the Municipality of Novo Sarajevo, Mr. Koldža, and here I asked – why not allow the Franciscan Province to work on Lamela C in the building they received here in Zagreb, and it was approved for A and B. I received an answer that I am not satisfied with, namely now would take me a long time to explain. I asked, namely, why not make a decision of the Municipal Council to which that property is subject to use because the law allows it. Mr. Chief replied to me that he doesn't have a legal foothold for that. I'm going to give him an additional question, I think there is, because in this return process, the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina building, then whether, then, the municipality itself made various decisions to grant this property to the Franciscan Province, and then suddenly they changed that thing in 2003, which they own and then issued it as 15 business spaces. So Lamela A and B are restored, Lamela C is not. I will refer the additional question to the Commissioner, this time and the chairman of the Council, I think the law allows the property to return to use until the Law on Restitution, that there are examples of a series in Sarajevo, and with me in Central Bosnia, and that the chief is wrong here, unless that property is necessary to the municipality itself, and since the majority of it has been returned, i.e. given to the use of various decisions, I see no reason not to do so with such a one decision by the Municipal Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4306	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4307	I welcome everyone present. I'm sorry that she's not the foreign minister here today, but I would just, here, and for the record, and for knowing that I am owed answers, I said, that the Foreign Ministry has not answered three questions so far, so that all deadlines have passed and that I pray that by next week the answers are delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4308	Thank you very much. I have no further applications for commenting on the answers received to the parliamentary questions. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers, Number: 01,02-02-1-697/18 of 07.03.2018 (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading. After the College reached agreement as a commission, since no entity majority was required in the first round of voting at the 60th session, held on 18.04.2018. The Constitutional Commission submitted a report containing three amendments. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. We don't have any charges to discuss. Thank you. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers, Number: 01,02-02-1-1885/18 since 17/09/2018 (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4311	Thank you. Well, here, I will also, in part, say on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Budget, that we have unanimously accepted the principles of this Law, not only its principles, but also the intensity and reasons and intentions of adopting such a law as to introduce one budgetary inspection, as is precisely called in the law. I would say in order to be more transparent again, more lawfully spending public budget money. Perhaps it can be said that we have, as well as at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and external audit through the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an internal audit by the authorities of the administration, but one public view of the spending of budget money, the public interest of this very thing, indeed, leads to perhaps a legitimate need to make the process more legal in this way. What I've doubled on the Committee itself, so I'm going to say here are the criminal provisions, or the amount of fines for moving offences, for the management of the body of the administration, so for the natural persons, ranging from 5,000 to 20,000 marks. Therefore, the Proposer decided on the maximum amounts in the range of these penalties, prescribed by the Law on Violations. I've been thinking that this kind of punishment is really motivated by those who don't break the law, that they follow very closely, that they follow the law, but it seems to me, and a little less punishment would be equally motivated, and this kind of high punishment seems to me in some way to future budgetary inspectors will kind of shake their hands in situations when they issue criminal orders with such high penalties. But that's one story behind the law reading in the second round and it doesn't matter that much. I may, in fact, have answered the most, will return to that parliamentary question I asked about an hour ago. I will read to you the provision of Article 4 of this Act, paragraph (4) – a fine of between 5,000 and 20,000 marks will be fined for the offence of the renegades of the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 33j. paragraph (1) of this Act as a responsible person if he does not issue a decision on a salary or compensation for persons employed in accordance with the rules on the basis of which the payment of salaries and fees is made. What I haven't been able to say in asking that question, I really don't envy the foreign minister when she issues a settlement to possibly an ambassador or ambassador to the Czech Republic, since the legal regulations that exist regulate that matter. It is evident that such a solution will have to enter into a certain breach of the Regulation on the establishment and organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and would in some way wish to warn, that, behold, this level of punishment, and this law and this budgetary inspection will indeed contribute again to a more transparent and legal spending of budgetary money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4312	Thank you. Dear Representative Adil Osmanović. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4313	Dear chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests, media representatives. I had the opportunity to discuss the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions at one of the meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Of course, I think that all the MPs here are the view that we need to find greater possibilities to control the spending of budget funds and, of course, you should see how this bill in this direction makes it more professional and would say more independent, more independent. I believe that the proposal for a law on amendments to the law on the financing of BiH institutions gives too much power to the Minister of Finance and the Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina. He is compared to his colleagues, first of all I will go, who sits together with him in the Council of Ministers one step above, as a budgetary inspectorate is being introduced which is.... which should be systematised in the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The following point is set out here in Article 33.5., paragraph – if the budgetary inspector in carrying out inspection finds that the law or other regulation has been violated, it is required to adopt a solution and impose the measures provided for in Article 33n. And the same member of the position (3) stands – against the solution of the position (1) of this member, the Head of the institution may, within 8 days after receiving the solution, make a complaint to the Minister of Finance and the Treasury. So, the finance and vault minister is a second-degree body and colleagues, and I'm going to start with a colleague sitting there at the ministry, in the Council of Ministers, they're kind of facing the finance minister. If a budgetary inspectorate is introduced, and I appreciate that it should be introduced, he should be with the Council of Ministers first and should not be with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Since this is the first reading I appreciate that, through further discussion in the competent committees, amendments should be made in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4314	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4315	Thank you. I have also had a few thoughts on this subject and some of it will be presented by me, since this is the first stage, or first reading, I am primarily referring to article 331 of the inspection procedure. So, I'd like to say this in order for the material provider to perhaps appreciate some of this, and possibly install it until the second reading and there's no need to intervene. First of all, I have a dilemma in point 1), says – the inspection procedure is being initiated on an initiative that every legal and physical person has the right to submit. I was particularly interested in this “every natural person. ” So, will this mean that the inspection will be carried out by whoever, therefore, whoever I think falls to, or I may be wrong, to apply for an assessment of some business, because which means a natural person, does that mean only inside the institutions that are employed or that, or that I am, not to be banal, from the street, therefore, can file a request to the inspectorate and then the inspectorate, of course, has 18 procedures to refuse, to accept or accept this proposal from someone who has submitted a request for a business assessment, but it seems to me that this has been left too wide. So it would be good, however, to consider how especially compared to “every natural person” which means, in fact, whether there are any restrictions or is only a restriction whether the inspector will accept his application or not. And the other thing, it would also be obvious about these fines and I think it's high, and I especially think a wide range, so freedom is left too great for someone who's going to make decisions about the level of punishment, so it seems to me that it all needs to get a little closer, here's my thinking on this subject, so I hope that some of this bidder will consider, look and give an answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4316	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mira Pekić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4317	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests. Here I will refer to this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, since this is the first reading I will seek to be brief and point only to those things which, in my opinion, in these amendments and additions to the Law on the Financing of BiH institutions could be improved. Of course, inspection supervision in public spending, i.e. budget spending, is necessary and I think that no MP in the House of Representatives is against any, any control of budget spending. However, the introduction of inspection supervision, which involves the introduction of a budgetary inspectorate within the BiH Ministry of Finance, is also the introduction of this inspectorate into the minister's ranking, will have a significant problem in the very work of the budgetary inspector himself, since he is in the ranks of the minister's assistant, as he is organised within the finance ministry and the issue, as my respected colleague said, is the very role of the Ministry of Finance in the control of budget spending. The second issue in the introduction of inspection supervision is this inspection surveillance procedure that is being initiated on the initiative of a legal or natural person. I am afraid that, if there is no initiative of a legal and natural person, what does that mean in the work of budgetary supervision itself, if there is no initiative, and there is no spending of budgets that are not in accordance with the law, there will probably not be any control of the spending of that budget money. So, in the further work and work of this member, it is necessary to see how the budget inspection itself will work, that it does not work and acts solely on the initiative of neither legal nor natural persons. I wanted to say, again, we already have institutions dealing with budget spending, that is, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, that is, the Office for Audition, of course, the Central Harmonisation Unit, that is, internal audit, that is, ultimately, both the SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office, all of which are involved in the illegal spending of budgetary resources. But here we are again introducing another institution, another post-festum body, already dealing with the work that has been done, the budgets will already be spent in a legal or illegal way. Budgetary inspectors, like all these numbered bodies, will have the opportunity to act only when the work is done. Therefore, my opinion, even these penalties that are intended to depend on the 19 works that have been done, are perhaps even stimulating, that it can be repeated or high if someone has betrayed the wrong, I don't know, the solution to the salary, perhaps that and the high penalty, but it also takes a good measure of any action that is done and any penalty that is prescribed. I therefore think that we should think carefully about introducing the inspection procedure before the budget spending itself, before the money is spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4318	Thank you. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4319	Well, it's not a classic correction of the wrong quote, but I would kind of relocate with these views whether the budgetary inspectorate and the budgetary inspector should be in the Ministry of Finance. So where else is he going to be, tell me? It's quite logical, so it makes sense to me that this second-degree body is also there, not only logical, but it's what makes this law doable, persuasive. I also know that there are, I have already said, many institutions that control the various ways of spending public money, not only budget money, but no institution and no regulation that has defined the work of these institutions does not have the prescribed direct and clear sanctions. That is why, in my opinion, it is welcome to welcome this law and welcome the introduction of no new body of administration, not an inspectorate within the existing body of administration, not particularly financially demanding, I would say, an addition to the existing spending of the budget, but with a clear, clear and direct sanctions for violations for the first time, and that is why it is good and that is why I am talking about both in principle and the level of these infringements in order to be, in a way, more convenient and more appropriate for the implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4320	Dear representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4321	Dear President, dear colleagues, I apologize for using this possibility to report to the Rules of Procedure in some way, bearing in mind that colleagues have applied and that the discussion has begun, and on behalf of the SNSD MEPs, we have the need to seek a break in order to respond adequately to the invitation of his high-prisence Metropolitan of the Dabobobosan Hrizostom to honor his invitation and to attend the reception on Christmas and New Year's holidays. I'm asking for your understanding, we're looking for a 30-minute break and the Serbian Club is also 30 minutes away, so please allow us an hour's break.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4322	Okay, thank you. So if you agree that we might just quickly finish the debate on this point, then there will be an hour's break, is there, within which, of course, MPs should do certain other obligations, such as lunch, etc. Then let's continue our full work until the end of the session. Here's what I'm proposing for all the debaters to really cut their exposure so we can take a break right now, and then we'll agree that she'll be here by 1:00, if you think that's okay. 20 Here we go quickly, the honourable representative Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations. Dragan Mektić is correcting the wrong allegations, he answered first.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4323	Thank you, Chairman, of course, I support every kind of reinforcement, control of budget spending, but I'm afraid there are some things that haven't ended up with this law, and I'm afraid there's a problem here with the conflict of jurisdiction between different institutions that control budget spending and I'm just going to say one example, and that's when I'm going to end up. What if the inspectorate or that inspector determines any illegal or wrong spending of budget funds, and even in that process establish any sanctions or fines, and then the Office of Audit comes and doesn't comment on that, what was the inspectorate's point of view? So there can also be negative conflicts of jurisdiction, there can be positive, there can be mixed up. How will those things be cleared up, will someone pay back money then or money to the one who's been given criminal sanctions or whose will be the last? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4324	Honorable representative Adil Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations and afterwards a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4325	Thank you, Chairman. Why did I raise the view that the budgetary inspectorate should not be part of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, first of all the question should be asked – how will budgetary inspectors behave if there are reports of natural and legal persons to failures in the Ministry of Finance and Treasury itself? And the second question, if the Minister of Finance and Treasury is a second-degree body – who will the inspectors, if they find irregularities and, uh, address, or who is the second-degree body when controlling the work of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury? Therefore, I believe that this should be singled out as a special budget...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4326	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs on this agenda. So, break till 1:00. [[PAUZA]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. We invite MPs, if they're outside, to enter the O.R., to sit in our seats. 21 We move to the point of five daily work, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Patent Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (‘E.’), issue: 01,02-02-1-2852/18 of 27.02.2019. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I believe that the Law on the BiH Judicial Police should actually be that the Judicial Police, as already established practice, subdue and bound to the President of the BiH Court, should not be the minister of justice. Also, some ten members offered in the bill are one provision when the law comes into force, and the other nine I have some, six I have some principled remarks, so I will try to bring them out as soon as possible. In Article 2 of the amendment and the amendment, which concerns Article 5(2) of the basic law, I believe that there is also a need to define jurisdiction, to act under the orders of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and in all respects, some powers already listed there. It is also considered that in this position, the question of the insurance of judges and court officials is quite inaccurately defined during the course of official duty. Namely, insurance of persons could be in some three categories and applies in three categories, per place of work, per place of residence and on the move. Now, the term provided for in the Law says that it is during the course of my official duties, and I think it should be changed, because for example. In the following period, a question of 22 could be asked, for example, in case of need, when there is a need for a team, who will protect the judge if it is on official duty outside the workplace, on the official road, at a seminar or something like that. At the same time, I believe that the principles highlighted by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council under which the safety of the holder of judicial functions, members of their families, of property in all contexts should be within one police agency, not divided by species, as these do not achieve the practical purpose of protection. When it comes to Article 4 of the amendment and the supplement, which concerns Article 9(4), I consider that it is neither quite principled nor appropriate overtime to bind to 4 hours a day, I consider that a weekly limit is sufficient. It's very simple because of the specificity of a court cop's work, like... If you do, you should leave Sarajevo to bring in someone who's five, six hours away from where the court officer's seat is. So that's why you should... 13, 14 hours to spend on the road today, and that's why I don't think that this kind of restriction should be tied to overtime, because then the question is, if there was even a right to the journal. Because the question is whether it is so principled for other employees in the authorities of the administration who as soon as they leave the place of residence, you know very well, first has a travel order and logbooks and travel expenses. I therefore believe that in Article 5 of the amendment and addition, which relate to Article 22(1), that judicial police officers in labour rights and other rights not regulated by this Act should actually be equalised with police officers, and not with other employees such as civil servants and tenants. In this regard, I believe that Article 22(3) requires solutions concerning this matter to be brought by the police commander, not by the minister. Uh, she tells the minister to see and to know what's going on with those cops. When it comes to the amendments to Article 6 of the amendment and supplementation, I think they are exceeded, so I think we should define the procedure for admission to employment as for police officers. Training as for police officers along with a programme brought by a person who manages the Judicial Police, whether what I have proposed by the President of the Court or by the Minister of Justice as provided for in the text. In particular, I would say, I would draw attention to, it is interesting that the views (1) to (8) of this member speak about the traineeship, and in fact the attitude (9) speaks of leaving a course that is not intended at all in previous members, nor is it prescribed. At the very end, Article 7 of the amendment and the supplement discusses the degradation of the lower rank. The rank, in my opinion, has been acquired right and I'm not sure it can be taken exactly as defined. This is not, after all, a practice in any other institution, in any judicial police institution or other police agencies that have rank. Article 8 of amendments and additions, which relate to Article 28a. the position (2) of the point, should be specified and aligned with the education system, because the VII degree of school preparation is not equivalent to 180 points of the Bologna schooling system, and officials with 180 points should be limited in progress, for example. to the level of inspector or senior inspector. In Article 28a. the position (4) of the norm, i.e. the coefficients should be aligned with the acts of police officers, as we have in SIPA and DKPT, in the Border Police, etc. What I think is missing here in principle is the procedure of the first act of the police officers found in the service and the procedure of the promotion, because it can also be prescribed under the law, cannot be prescribed by sublegal acts, e.g. the time to be carried out in one act in order to advance to a higher rank, the second condition is to advance the disciplinary or criminal procedure, the assessment of work and the like. I hope that the Proposer will take note of the observations made, and I will try to prepare for some of these principles and the amendment proposal. 23 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4331	Thank you. Dear Representative Adil Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4332	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the BiH Judicial Police would only want me to stay more in Article 7 of the applicable Law in which it stands – That the Judicial Police are established as a basic organisational unit, i.e. the Department of Justice. The Department of the Judicial Police is under the command of the Judicial Police. The commander of the Judicial Police has the salary, the payment coefficient from the head of the department and the commander of the Judicial Police appointed the justice minister. Article 3 relating to the amendment of Article 8 states that the Court Police Commander has a deputy. I believe that the absolutely judicial police in the Department of Justice should not have a Deputy Commander of the Judicial Police, especially where there is no definition here of what he would do directly and why he would be in charge, except that he stands to be activated when he is prevented from doing the affairs of the Court Police Commander. Furthermore, it should be specified, if we are to remain in the position of the commander, Deputy Commander of the Judicial Police, who appoints the Deputy Commander of the Judicial Police, because we see that the justice minister appoints the Police Commander, the Judicial Police, who then appoints the Deputy Commander of the Judicial Police. And the next thing that should also be specified, it says -- that the commander has a deputy in the rank of a senior inspector who is not from the same constitutive people. Does it mean that the Commander of the Judicial Police can only be a person of the order of the constituent people? Or another question - what if it is the Commander of the Judicial Police of the Order of the others, if it is a Crnogorac, could the Crnogorac be also a deputy or was it only prevented by those who are of the order of the constituent peoples? I believe that this formulation should be defined more precisely if it remains to amend the law in the direction that the Deputy Chief of the Judicial Police has a deputy, I do not believe that the Deputy Commander of the Judicial Police is absolutely required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4333	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirko Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4334	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow ministers, since this is the law in the first reading, perhaps I should point only to two things that seem important, important, and in the amendment phase, it can probably be fixed, but rather because of the promoter. 24 They mentioned a fellow member of the 6th but there is one section relating to trainees, perhaps not sufficiently noted. Under this law, an intern who passes a professional exam for a judicial officer is entitled to immediately establish a working relationship on indefinite time and I think that this violates the principle and transparency and equality. I think you should think about it, I think this really is a thing that shouldn't be solved this way. And perhaps, another question concerning arguments, where it is said that this law does not require additional funding from the institution's budget. But we see if we read Article 29, he says new funding will be provided in the next budget in accordance with Article 28a. for those new coefficients that are, which will practically require new additional appropriations. Here, there are some other things, of course, whether this should be a special unit at the Justice Department, that's probably, thinking about it and others, but here you would stop at this, at these few things that seemed to me to be problematic and disputable. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4335	Thank you very much. We don't have any more requests to discuss this item on the agenda. Moving to agenda number seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in BiH's institutions, proposing: Representatives Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić, issue: 01-02-1 2573/17 since 19.06.2019 (first reading) Representative Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić, in accordance with Rule 201 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, took over the role of the motions for the uninformed Bill, and the legislative procedure was resumed because earlier promoters in the previous assembly of the House were representatives: Borislav Bojić, Hazim Rančić, jasmin Emrić, Dijana Zelenika, Damir Arnaut, Saša Magazinović, Senad Šepić and Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalica. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 06.11.2017, the House College appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent. In line with the 56th House Conclusion, an opinion was requested on the draft law by the BiH Council of Ministers, the Central Election Commission of BiH and the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the co-ordination of the fight against BiH corruption. All those institutions delivered their opinions, and the Constitutional Commission found in its opinion that the bill was in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, and accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4337	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I welcome that this legislative process has finally been put on the agenda of this bill, but I also express my dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction for more than two years, and we know that the state of play at the state level of the Law of Conflict of Interest does not implement 25, I know that it is not implemented on, or on a federal level, so that the Institute of Conflict of Interest is on these two levels, unfortunately, just a dead letter on paper. I would like to recall briefly that the legislative process of this proposal began, as you stated in the opening section, in October 2017, that the proposings in the previous meeting were in front of eight political parties, and that it was on the agenda of the last session that was interrupted and therefore did not discuss the principles of the proposed Law. Therefore, colleagues Magazinović, Arnaut and I decided to take over the Law and propose a continuation of its legislative procedure in this meeting. As one of the promoters of this new text of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in BiH institutions, I would like to stress that the same is significantly improving, editing and upgrading the system of conflict of interest at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The improvement of the conflict of interest system is reflected in the alignment of the existing text of the Law with international standards and recommendations contained in the IV cycle of evaluation to prevent corruption among members of Parliament, judges and prosecutors from the Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was adopted at the 70th plenary session of the Council of Europe Group of States to fight corruption in 2015. It is also important to recall that at the 43rd session of the BiH Council of Ministers, which was held in February 2016, adopted the Information on the GRECO evaluation report for Bosnia and Herzegovina from the IV cycle of evaluation, and adopted the conclusion that the Ministry of Security of BiH is in charge of delivering the GRECO report from the IV cycle of evaluation to all relevant institutions that will access the activities to the implementation of GRECO recommendations in accordance with their respective competences. The GRECO evaluation team under point 61. An evolutionary report describing the current state of financial reporting of selected officials, the Executive Officer and Adviser recommends: 1. the unifying of valid requests for publication of financial data in a single application form, 2. the introduction of the obligation to report close relatives' assets and to provide updated information in the event of a significant change in data to be reported during the legislative mandate and 3. ensuring publication and uniform access to financial data by keeping the privacy and security of MPs and delegates and their close relatives concerned by the reporting obligation. Under point 62. The GRECO's evolutionary team expresses serious concerns over the lack of control over the accuracy of the reported property data in a situation where the competent authorities collecting data have only a depositary function without a clear competence to carry out the material verification of their content. In the view of the GRECO Evolution Team, in order to effectively detect irregularities, it is not enough to have only collected data but also to ensure that channels exist to verify the accuracy of collected and reported data. Therefore, point 63 sets out the recommendations of GRECO: 1st merger of the data publication system with an effective control mechanism, including random checks and 2nd introduction of appropriate sanctions for false registration. The above recommendations in the proposed new text of the Law are incorporated in Chapter 3 — Reports on the financial situation and property, where provided for in Article 15 of the report submitted by the public function holder. 26 Under paragraph 67. The evolutionary report GRECO expresses its firm belief that the 2013 Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions has been reduced by the spirit of the Law and that it significantly weakens its preventive function. The GRECO evolutionary team under point 68. The evolutionary report states that the composition of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest raises serious doubts about its relevance, refers to amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest adopted in 2013. The GRECO's evolutionary team voiced concerns raised by the international community and the non-governmental sector over the Commission's dominant political composition to decide on conflict of interest and the risks it poses for the transparency, independence and impartiality of its functioning, given that politicians are in charge of monitoring the conduct of members of their parties and colleagues. Furthermore, the GRECO evoluacijski Team pointed to the decision-making process in the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest where at least two members of each constituent nation are involved, and in practice, the ratio of votes to 7:2 is not sufficient to decide if those two votes come from members of the same constituent people. In all reports on Bosnia and Herzegovina, the European Commission stresses that the amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest that were carried out in 2013 do not comply with international standards, as there are no independent bodies responsible for the processing of conflicts of interest. On the basis of those recommendations and the observations made by the new text of the Law in Article 16, the Commission is foreseen that a permanent, independent and independent body has been established by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and that a member of the Commission cannot be appointed a person who is the holder of public office. Article 18 of the new text of the Law provides that the Commission shall be composed of a president and four members, and shall be elected on the basis of a public call issued and procedure by the Joint Commission on Human Rights. The candidate's success decision is taken by the Joint Commission for Human Rights by a two-thirds majority vote. Article 19 provides that the president and members of the Commission are to be elected by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the basis of a list of candidates drawn up by the Joint Commission for Human Rights. Article 20. The proposal for this law is fully depolitised by membership in the Commission, as the candidate for a member of the Commission should not be a member of the political party on an additional condition that he was not a member of the political party five years before his candidacy. The GRECO's evolutionary team also voiced concern about the timing of decision-making, given the Commission's period of inactivity to decide on a conflict of interest when the term of office of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly ends, and this time period may take several months until the appointment of the new Commission's call. This situation has already lasted more than a year, i.e. since last year's general elections. The existing law determines that when the term of office of members of Parliament ceases and their membership in the Commission, and thus currently there are no bodies implementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions. Had there been an emergency and political will, we could have adopted the proposed Law in the past, and we would have avoided this situation, as I have repeatedly pointed out as President of the Commission. Further to the Evolution Report, the fact that the director and two deputy directors of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency are members of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest in a position, which can lead to the unsolicited risk of 27 of the involvement of political reasons in the process of appointing those positions. That is exactly what happened in the last Commission meeting, when the deputy director of APIK resigned and because of the inactivity of another member of the Commission, the Commission could not achieve a quorum for work and decision-making, and the Commission's work has been blocked since the beginning of 2018 until today. As President of the Commission of the previous assembly, I want to meet this distinguished House that the current political composition of the Commission is unsustainable, and that this situation must be changed if we want to put the system of conflict of interest in the role of protecting the integrity of Members of Parliament and protecting the integrity of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Under point 70. Reports by the GRECO Evolution Team, GRECO expresses reservations regarding the sanctioning regimes in the Law on conflict of interest, since it considers that a range of fines is available to be low in cases of significant material gain. In order to resolve that reserve in the new text of the Law in Article 27, sanctions are prescribed, one of which is also a fine of 1,000,00 to 20.000,00 KM, but this Depending on the severity and consequences of the infringement of the Law, and the damage caused by the damage to the integrity of the function carried out by the public function holder [[the speaker is warned on time]] recommended that the advisory, supervisory and enforcement regime be fully audited and clearly established, in particular by ensuring its independence and timelyity, and efficiency through the establishment of a system of adequate sanctions. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It is precisely the basis of those recommendations of GRECO that the proposals are in collaboration with the non-governmental sector.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4338	Time, time, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4339	drafted and agreed on this new text of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest at the level of BiH institutions. Given this short time, and the importance of this Law, I am asking my colleagues and colleagues in this, hopefully, constructive debate to touch all the principles of the Law, and possibly in the second round, or in the second reading in the amendment phase, to correct the text if there are such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4340	Thanks, buddy. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4341	I thank the chairman. So, on the trail of what counterpart Emrić said earlier, and on the trail of facts that he presented and his time in these activities, I am sorry, I can only say that, that the Council of Ministers' proposal did not stand up or that we did not find a way to be a Council of Ministers' proposal, but a fellow MPs who, of course, can and may not want to wait for that kind of initiative by the Council of Ministers or this, some other reasons prevailed with them, I understand that. But then such a bill comes in danger of, therefore, having a series of disadvantages, according to me, which, too, is 28 in my impression, is impossible to correct even in the amendment phase. So the law had to have a very different approach to what I think it is, and I'm going to give you a few reasons for that. Therefore, the opinions that have come with this Law are also as old as this proposal that colleagues have taken over, so for example, I will simply state the opinion of the Council of Ministers from which the Opinion was then requested, so let's say, among other things, that the question is whether the proposed provisions of this Law ensure the operational independence and independence of this Commission. Furthermore, the legal status of the Commission Office cannot be established with certainty, i.e. the professional service established by the Parliamentary Assembly in the context of the provisions of Article 49. The government law. Then they say – we believe that the structure of the proposed bodies is necessary to review and comply with the provisions of the basic organisational regulation of the Management Act in order to ensure the functioning of these bodies in full capacity. Also, in the opinion of the Central Election Commission, some of them also touched on, therefore, the question of the dirty and the obligation to report property, they, not to read it all now, not to waste time, say that it overlaps with the provisions that are contained in the Election Law and other things. In the end, the Central Election Commission finds out – the question is how much from the financial aspect is then justified by the work of the Commission or is more comprehensive to give to the authorities already existing bodies with experience in implementing this Law. So, it is in those opinions that we have asked for in Parliament's conclusion that there are quite a number of concerns, and in addition, what I, reading the proposal for this law, have seen, that there are a lot of things that should be set up in a different way and I am not sure that this can be solved by the amendment phase. For example, in Article 4 which, in my opinion, may be almost all excess, all political connotations of the provisions, so let's say in point 2, the public function holder is personally agreed on his actions, since I have such a text, is not in my Croatian, is he, for his action in performing a public function in which he was appointed in relation to, or chosen and politically responsible bodies or citizens. Well, that's... well, then on, after that, you have again in point 7 of the public function carrier as a public figure acting in the interest of the citizens. You know, it's, in the law to put such findings without, therefore, working out, without what it means, without measuring that condition, when it comes to that committee that's formed to follow the conflict of interest, I don't know how this is going to be decided when we take into account those penalties... that are meant to be. Well, then you have, let's say, when you talk about what's not allowed, and I'll remind you that in this House, at least when it comes to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we've brought amendments and additions to the law when it comes to white bread, and then it remains in the article, it seems to me, 14 or I don't know which one, that I can't compete, that I can't work at the firm, and you actually took everything from them, the MPs, let's just say, this applies to the MPs. So you didn't worry about him having nothing anymore, why would he even keep more Parliament than he has nothing left and have no right anymore. So that's what we've brought here to change. So, when it comes to kinship, you put it that it has to report both property and, I don't know, business with close relatives who can also be a whole other family. So this question needs to be settled. For example, my son or your son can be a whole other family, he doesn't have to have anything to do with you, and a special life, and now in what context should this all be reported, so this needs to be worked out, and I'm not sure that it can only be done in some period from this bill to another reading. So I would not further bother you with the remarks that I have seen here, but would suggest the following conclusion, means for item 7 of the session: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH a proposal for a conflict law of 29 interests within 90 days. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking for the opinion of the Central Election Commission and today's debate on the proposed text to be drawn up by the Council of Ministers as the basis for drawing up this proposal. The college's written proposal is expected by the end of January, and will be forwarded to the Council of Ministers. The House of Representatives will not be declared on today's proposal. So I propose this conclusion in order to get the possibility and situation of the draft law being the Council of Ministers. It seems to me that this could be a way to then get a law that is bound by other laws and other provisions and is applicable and enforceable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4342	Thank you. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4343	In order to prepare for this debate, I, as you have heard in this opening section, have examined all the obligations made by the Council of Ministers and I have stressed that the Council of Ministers has tasked the competent institutions to implement GRECO recommendations, and then I have read GRECO recommendations to reduce the subjectivity of any political entity or any representative in this House. Also, I must say that in the previous period, here in the previous term, we had so many conferences, a debate on the implementation of the Law of Conflict of Interest, that anyone who was in any way interested in how he could make his contribution so that this text of the Law might look better. I would also like to stress that this text of the Law includes NGOs, NGOs, international organisations, and the academic and professional public and, of course, political actors, or political parties, who should ultimately vote this Law in order to protect our integrity because this is a preventive law. This is not the Law against MPs, but precisely to protect MPs from the part where they can be found at the border of corruption and perform their public functions. Of course, here's what we need to talk about, but for two years we don't talk about it, two years it's not on the agenda. So we know how many times he's been on the Constitutional Commission, so we know how long the Council of Ministers' opinion has been waiting. Here, the Council of Ministers, because we've been waiting for Opinion for six months, could then say, here, gentlemen of the MPs, we offer our text of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest Because we think that [[the speaker is warned on time]] Deficiencies [[the speaker is warned on time]] that it is not set, that the definitions are not clear etc. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm afraid we're just wasting time here, we're not going to do anything, we're waiting for someone to do something, and when the representatives in co-operation with the NGO are proposing something, then it's being criticized as if...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4344	Thanks, buddy. Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4345	...that this is a good text that can certainly be improved by amandanic action. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4347	I do not dispute that any document being discussed may be those who believe he is not good and counterpart Lovrinović has a lot of right to express his opinion that this proposal is such that it cannot even be corrected in the amendment phase and it is completely legitimate. But you can't make a suggestion not to vote on the law, so that's where you just got out. Your conclusion is also good only inconclusive, that is, experience has shown us that the Council of Ministers had already committed and that it was one period of two years when we waited to get that Law. Is there a problem? Is it possible that whoever's the Proposer of the Law is the problem? You got an explanation at the beginning why. It was suggested by a much larger group of MPs in the previous term, some are there, some are not. Those who stayed in office took over the law and that's the only reason why these three signatures are. Is that supposed to be different, because there's a lot of vanity here so only laws pass that are signed by a number of MPs' clubs, so it's kind of common, and it's okay. May this law be brought down, let this same law be signed by whoever will, here is your colleague, and I will support him, but you cannot prevent us from pleading against him. This is not a law which, whose authors these proposings are and should be honest and said, I think that fellow Emrić also said, has been attended by a number of MPs' clubs in the past term, international organisations and the NGO that deals with this area. So, as one of the promoters, I'm going to insist that we vote on him, so here we go, let someone else write the law, but you can't stop us from pleading on this law precisely because of those who participated in his creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4348	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4349	Thank you. My colleague Emrić, therefore, you say could have been done, and you know for yourself that this Parliament has not worked for over a year. So there's nothing to say to the Council of Ministers when you can tell us yourself, so we weren't even able to bring it, even if we were suggested. And yet, therefore, I have neither criticized nor said that this is not and should not be, that it is not good, in any negative context. I even suggested that it be one of the foundations for the Council of Ministers' proposal. So, I didn't say at all that this text was completely unacceptable, but I just don't think he's good, that at the amendment stage he can't lead to what I'd like to see, I don't know what my colleagues are going to say, but I don't argue that the House is making a statement about him, colleague Magaznović, but I've suggested that he doesn't say exactly... procedure, because if he pleads today, what you're proposing, so, and falls, then where we are, then we're nowhere. So, I suggest that we just stay in the process, take into account, that the Council of Ministers take it, compare everything, these opinions in line and deliver us a text that, let's say, will be acceptable to everyone, or most of them. I didn't say anything else. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4350	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4351	We understood each other only then you misrepresented your view of the law. If you tell your colleague Lovrinović that the law is such that it cannot be fixed, and that is what you said, and not me, then it is pointless to keep him in the process. If most of those who share your opinion that the law is bad and cannot be fixed, let's take it down today, that it does not take place, that another law that treats this area may enter. So, we will continue to insist that we plead, and if most people think this is not a good law, that those who wrote it don't know this area, my Bog, just to make it clear that we have that list too, sometimes we'll do it too.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4352	Thank you. Honorable representative Alma Čolo, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4353	Thank you, chairman, honourable fellow Members and ministers at the Council of Ministers. I would like a few notes to say when it comes to the making of laws that are essentially system laws and which, by their very structure, are complex laws. I am somehow, here, now in this meeting of the President of the Constitutional Legal Commission, I am entitled to tell you more I have confidence in the laws that come from the Council of Ministers, which come from the competent ministries because as an intern, I started working in the Executive Council at the time and I know that the laws were worked by specialised teams who, firstly, were first trained for a particular area. In order to make a good law it is necessary to know a particular area professionally, and then to know good law, to make it a legal norm and that is a theory of legal normation, it is a theory of legislative and legal activity. I don't mind, and I don't think this is badly done, I don't mind MPs in the parliamentary procedure passing laws, because it's their right, but it's kind of fashionable for me now, and it's fashionable for someone in the parliamentary procedure to pass the law and he's an active MP. It is possible for someone to ask a hundred parliamentary questions, how much they paid for in an institution, how much was spent on official phones in all institutions, Bosnia and Herzegovina, among other things, in the Constitutional Court. So I read the answer that it was paid to the judges of the Constitutional Court who are foreigners, appointed by the President of the European Court of Human Rights on behalf of the official phones, they were paid so much. I don't know how much that makes sense, and it's just a crackdown, and I'm not going to run away from the agenda, it's a crackdown on this draft law by the MPs, especially those laws concerning criminal proceedings, criminal, material law, the Law of Conflict of Interest, which is a system law and I, here, stand at the point that we need this law, we need a good law. I made a little parallel, and I took the law of the Republic of Croatia. I thought – the Republic of Croatia is a member of the European Union. Here, Bosnia and Heregovina should not have a stricter law than the Republic of Croatia. From 2011 until now, they have changed their Law five times, and since 1 January they have refined the text of the Law which is in force and this Law is lighter than this Law. It is easier that the financial report does not have to be submitted every year by Members. We have 32 people here who have to take it every year until March 31st. We previously had a solution to submit at the beginning of the term of office and at the end of the term of office, that is the current, positive solution. We have to submit a financial report here every year and two more years when we pass our mandate. Another concrete remark concerns the appointment of a committee to resolve conflicts of interest, the procedure for the appointment of a commission under this proposal is implemented by the Commission for Human Rights. I don't know what would be in the jurisdiction of the Human Rights Commission. I think it would be more logical for the Administrative Commission or some ad hoc commission, but if you don't want to pay, be the Administrative Commission. And the two of them have things, this is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, meaning preventive law, but here they have two very dangerous sanctions. These are a motion for resolution and a request for impeachment. It is not in Croatian law, the Hrvat deleted it. The motion to resolve MPs from the post of MPs is a very difficult sanction. If the Hrvat who are in the European Union do not have such sanctions, I do not know why they would impose such sanctions on me. All other solutions are acceptable to me, but I, I continue to ask the MPs, please, I have been practicing law for 36 years but I am not sure that I know any area that may be in this Parliament's jurisdiction so that I can write a good law. I shouldn't engage in this legislative activity. The NGO can write, international organisations can write, but the Council of Ministers and we are responsible for what is adopted in this procedure and for what will be applied.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4354	Thank you very much. jasmin Emrić, the initial of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4355	I don't think it's fashion to perform a parliamentary duty. It is, therefore, an obligation for MPs to participate in the work of the House to propose, initiate, amend the amendments to the draft laws, including the laws, to propose, initiate and participate in every debate on all laws and on all important issues which are of the interest of all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is not fashion but obligation and if you have listened well to this story about the violated spirit of the earlier Law of Conflict of Interest when amendments and additions were made in 2013,... In 2013, because since 2013, we have essentially not an effective and effective system that implements the Law on conflict of interest. We have one system that doesn't exist anywhere in the region. If you have listened well to me today, no one implements the Law of Conflict of Interest. There is no conflict of interest, so we can say in Bosnia and Herzegovina because it is not being implemented at the state level, it is not being implemented at the Federation level, it is being implemented in Republika Srpska, they have their own commission, I don't know the details, but I know that at these two levels, even in the Brcko District, it is not being implemented because they too had problems with the appointment of the commission. So this isn't fashion, this is a commitment. The Council of Ministers from 2016 to 2019 could extend so far several different texts of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, they did not. So what am I supposed to say now is this is how we welcome this agent activity? We have long been talking about the incompetence of the existing Law on Conflict of Interest, this Law has no public trust, no trust from international institutions. I've read it. so many of those remarks were that then in one, I would... [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4356	Thank you, buddy, you have to finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4357	said a constructive debate so far came up with an acceptable text, therefore. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4358	Thank you. Dear Representative Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4359	The Honorable Chairman, on behalf of the SNSD Club, above all, to say that we believe that preventing conflicts of interest, or conflict of interest as such must be defined by a new legal solution. However, we also believe that there may have been a need for more tactics or goodwill by the MPs who took the call, took the material from the last call, that maybe, it would have been better for all of us, I think they let it go somehow without getting into this session. Why am I saying that? Because, if you read carefully, and I believe it is, this material that is in front of us today entered the procedure in November 2017 and we are practically at the second working session of this House brought into a situation that, come on, I apologize if it will sound harsh, we bring into a situation a little populist if you are against this Law, you know against preventing conflicts of interest which is certainly, at least as far as the SNSD Club is concerned is concerned. We are by the nature of our party, and by the nature of the personality of the MPs we are participating here, inclined to participate in the adoption of laws that we believe will be enforceable, possibly enforceable in fact. I'm expressing my suspicions, and I'm going to back her up with the allegations that this law is being implemented. And yes, therefore, I dispute the need for us to now discuss the material that has been in various stages for the past two, three years. If you saw, even four times he was considered by the Constitutional Commission in the last meeting, made different decisions, and, behold, we are now as Mr Magazinović said – either you will or you will not, so we will now as to talk about who is to prevent conflicts of interest, who is not. So, we also believe, as Mr. Lovrinović said, that the 10 days we have ahead of us, if today we pass this law too little to amend this Law in the light of the fact that probably all clubs or most of them have some ideas about how this should be reconstructed, this text, which means ultimately the need to work on a whole new text. What I'm drawing attention to, now to say a few words specifically about the proposal, you have a situation that I've tried to calculate how many of us are covered by this proposal. I only came to 60 of us who have been carefully elected, counting our colleagues in the House of Peoples, but keep in mind that this includes all of us, including all the members of our families, have been appointed. Why am I paying attention to these numbers? Because I think in terms of 15 or 16 the establishment of a commission, etc., and that this commission checks all the financial reports of all of us every year and two years after we stop being in office, means not only us but also those appointed, etc., I doubt that this is possible in the capacity that the commission is supposed to do so here. As far as the commission itself is concerned, I also have to say one, it seems to me that the law has really worked someone who hasn't had enough experience in setting up a process so that they can last and that they can really institutionally and fully implement such complex laws. In fact, the Commission's position itself says it is a permanent, independent body established by the Parliamentary Assembly within the Parliamentary Assembly and financed from the Parliamentary Assembly's budget and let's say it can be. But completely, I think the Ministry of Justice had such a suggestion, it remained undefined for us from the club, what is she, what is that office, I have the Croatian version of Mr. Lovrinović, what is that commission that serves, what is that office that serves the Commission itself, is that a new administrative organisation that would form, what is that? Because she uses the administrative potential of the Parliamentary Assembly, to systematise it, to introduce new jobs, to new employees, to give consent to the Council of Ministers and then serve the work of the Commission. If, and by all accounts, this proposal is proposed or 34 implies the establishment of a new administrative organisation, I must again repeat our position, well known, that we are against the establishment of new institutions because we have not overly seen some of the benefits of many that have been formed at a common level so far. So, to recapitulate, we express our willingness to participate and we feel it is necessary on new grounds to define conflict of interest as such, to allow prevention whenever possible, but to introduce an effective mechanism, without additional allocation of funds, without forming new institutions, to effectively control and determine the conflict of interest of all of us if it comes to it, here is the first of me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4360	Thank you. The Honorable Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, MP. The discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4361	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. Here I was trying to get involved out of need and to react to some of the views we have heard here about a debate on one very important and as my colleague said, one system law, which is really necessary and necessary, and in order to be the one that needs to be implemented, in order to achieve its function, it should really be adopted by an expert body that knows these system regulations and knows the system of functioning of the administration, so that we can talk, that we have, about a law, which we all advocate at the end. We Malopre heard from the President of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests under the current Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and I read this somewhere from the Opinion of the Central Election Commission, that we do not today and that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests does not work. I will remind you in the past term I, along with my colleague, was a member of this Committee, this commission worked and until the law changes what should be done in accordance with the applicable law. This commission has brought sanctions, there are people in this room according to which the Commission has imposed sanctions, whether it is about warnings, whether it is about fines in one or more times, as prescribed by the law, of course, which sanctions could be imposed. So I ask you not to use any other things, we may say that we are not satisfied with existing solutions, but these existing solutions are being changed here through the Parliamentary Assembly. If we may not be satisfied with what has been done in the last amendments and have also come from these MPs, why are we doing this again in front of this Parliament. Today it is mentioned that it was, in a way, the insatiable need of certain representatives with the help of the NGO sector and then we are saying that we can have, with respect and respect for everyone's engagement, this is not the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. There's a lot that's been heard here, here's from an esteemed colleague as one who knows how to make normative and legal regulations, etc. and in a special way to those of this law, from regulation of the legal norm, from determining certain terms, from knowing the functioning of the administration, to giving sanctions and to all who should actually do so. So, I would like to say that I fully accept what my colleague Lovrinović and colleague Alma Čolo said, that this is a systematic law, that it should be done by professional administrative bodies, such as the ministry, or 35 executive bodies, essentially by the proposal of the Council of Ministers, and then that we here as representatives to do so have the right and to react. Each person can express his position and again respect the views and answers of the profession in order to obtain a system law, a law that would be enforceable, and which would have its basic function as it is called, and then be called the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. I will only in short lines look back on this Law and also join all those who have said that it is in any way possible to correct this Law in a second reading through the amendment phase, I would raise two hands for it, but it simply is not possible. Here I will start only from the term "public institution" introduced as a newspaper in this Bill proposal, where it is absolutely not defined exactly what is the concept of a public institution at lower levels of government, and it is necessary, is it in this Law. Then the delivery of a financial report, where it says here that a report on the financial situation and property of public office holders, contrary to Chapter 14 of the Bill's proposal, means Chapter 15 of the BiH Election Law, because it is a matter of delivering a financial report to two different institutions. Then, the formation of a special commission, meaning the commission would not work in full capacity as this Law limits the competence to act and verify the performance of the obligations actually carried out by the holder of public functions. The question also arises, where everyone mentions independence, independence – whether this is an independent and independent commission, whether this operational independence and independence of this body is ensured in a way, here, and the implementation of procedures and means assurances, etc. Compared to what exists today? The bill also cannot determine what is very important, the status, the legal status of the commission's office. This has already been highlighted here, and I want to underline it, because it is very important, it is not known whether it is a professional service under the Law on Administration, which can be established by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or whether it is an office that is founded to carry out professional, administrative tasks whose nature and manner of execution require actually special organisation and independence in their work and that they have, of course, the property of a legal person. Furthermore, the question is raised by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, the report on the financial situation, in fact, close relatives, where we have no opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, I will not get involved, you all know what we mean, mentioned fellow Lovrinović about some things and these things have to be regulated. The question arises – who can you ask your close relatives today some personal information so that you can deliver them? So you have to know exactly what, how and where and who you can actually give that information to. Then, the bill gives authority to the commission to submit them to this commission, unless they are subject to sanctions, through their own investigation and in cooperation with other bodies of all public authorities at the level of BiH and other persons. And that's what people do, so where the chairman of the commission is, according to this Act, he has to have completed his law school and eight years of work experience, and the rest of the high professional training and four years of work experience and such staffs express penalties, warnings, motions for resolution, which my colleague spoke of, not to mention further, the authorities responsible for the appointment and fines from 1,000.00 to 0.000,00 to the public office holder. Here's another one of these notes I hope we'll be responsible for passing one of these laws, so no matter who, how, this is everyone's own position, will support it. I will also accept the conclusion, it is personally acceptable to me, and not to declare ourselves, but in any case I expect to support the conclusion that the Council of Ministers delivers in the next period of the Law on Conflict of Interest, but that it is one systematic law which will, of course, have the opinion of all competent and personal data protection agencies and the Central Election Commission, means, of course, our legislative and legal sector, and in that sense, we will not call upon some, with respect to respect, NGOs, who probably have some kind of professional persons, as well. But I think if we proceed with one of these practices, like this, 36 would be explicit, I mean direct damage to this parliamentary assembly when it comes to these laws. Regardless of whether it was a law to prevent conflicts of interest or laws in the area of criminal or law, I do not know, about administration and administrative disputes and other material laws. Thank you very much, I hope that we will all look in the same direction, and our goal is to bring one system, implement laws and laws that will really prevent and that will in some way ensure that they are implemented and that they are all equal before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4362	Thank you. Now for a change, MP jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4363	I thank the chairman. I'm not going to be too tired of the distinguished House with this proposal, we've heard everything, but I have to say that it would be the biggest shame that we haven't talked about this topic at all and I'm pleased that we finally talked about the system of conflict of interest at the level of BiH institutions and I've already pointed out that some of us haven't heard me, that we are not currently implementing the Law of Conflict of Interest, and I also stressed that the Commission's work has been blocked since early 2018, because we haven't been able to reach a quorum for work and decision-making, and I think it's clear to all of us. There have been some issues here that are related to the fact that the status of the Commission's Office for Decision on a conflict of interest is currently unknown. So, the Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has an Office that is with the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. The Commission’s Office for Decision on a conflict of interest shall carry out expert, administrative and technical tasks for the needs of the Commission. So, the existing law is such that the Commission's decision on conflict of interest has a memorandum, and we confirm the acts by sealing the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency, the Office is with the Agency. It's very difficult to do, I was the president of this commission, unfortunately I have to say, because I've been struggling so hard to explain to the public why we don't work sometimes, why we're not efficient and why we're not more functional, etc. why there is no quorum, I was simply under that pressure and this is, this is very difficult existing law, very difficult to implement and in communication terms with the Office. Here, where is the Commission's headquarters under the existing law? He's gone. What is the status of the Commission? There's no status. Where are we, at the Parliamentary Assembly? No, we don't know where we are, we're not even in the APIK. The President of the Commission does not have the right to buy paper, so we cannot buy a sheet of paper, the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. It's an existing law, how to implement, and we said such an important system law. It's so important that he's been waiting for two years, I don't know, for several times on the Constitutional Commission and all this was known in 2016 and 2017 and 2018, this new text of the Law could have been acted on, so it could have been in different ways, first of all, the Council of Ministers and how it could have made its contribution that today we have the text of the law exactly as you all did in your discussions, but unfortunately there was no such communication, there were no such proposals and we have what we have. But still because of the importance of this law I would ask you to look at all this, I don't know how this is going to end, but it would be very harmful that this, as we said, a good basis for further talks fail. I also think that in the amendment phase, one member can act on everything and one member, to fix it, to regulate those definitions, perhaps in another way formulate the appointment of a commission, to achieve this greater independence from politics. I don't know how more independence can be achieved from political influence, if I say it isn't, if we say that a member of the commission is not a member of any political party, so that even five years earlier, 37 was not a member of the political party. Now we members of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples are members of the Commission, it is politicisation, it is already an apparent conflict of interest and that is what we hear all these years about the existing system. So here I think that this has been a useful debate, no matter how it ends, to know, here's the public knows why the Commission doesn't work, that I'm no longer called as the former president of the Commission, because I don't decide anything, my mandate has expired in this commission, let the public in BiH know, because people don't know whether I'm in charge or not. They call me from the municipal councils as why there is no law on conflict of interest. Well, here's why this isn't happening. We haven't arranged it in two years. Therefore, gentlemen, it is up to you to decide, and I think I have made my commitment as a former and former member of the Commission to get to know you about all the information and current state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4364	Thank you. Representative Borjana Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4365	I really need to react to what my colleague said, so just for the sake of clarification for all those he doesn't know, because of course all of us are concerned with the existing law. So it's not about the law not being implemented, it's just that there's just no sitting committee at this point until the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has appointed this House and the House of Peoples. So it's a commission that works in accordance with the existing law. All that's found in this committee is this office that supplies this commission, so it's doing all the work, all the decisions, all the applications, the checks will come to the Commission for action and decision-making until the law changes. So, if that's the case, it doesn't mean that it's someone's, because there's no obsolescence under the existing law, this one, in terms of resolving the issue of conflict of interest. So it's not about that, and it's the information that's wrong, it doesn't have to come out that this law doesn't work, it doesn't work. It is thus set up, so that we, since we have not worked in Parliament for a year, have not had a committee formed, so this commission has not worked. So, from the next session, here we do not have, I know, on the agenda, from the next session of our people and the House of Nations when this Committee is formed in accordance with the law, it has a duty and an obligation to convene, at the head of this Committee is the person of the opposition and I will only remind you for information, that all decisions in this Committee in the past meeting have been made unanimously, on the proposal of the professional service carrying out the tasks, because in accordance with this Act, and of course every future decision must be made in accordance with the legal regulations and regulations relating to the request in question. So, here I'm asking you just to have some clarification, this isn't an explanation in terms of not understanding it, not passing any other law, whether it's a good solution or not, it's up to us to discuss it, but this is just so much like the correction of what the president was talking about, it doesn't take so much, so to speak up to explain to us that it doesn't work, there are things that are done exclusively under the current law. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4366	Thank you. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4367	I really had no intention of discussing this law, especially because my colleagues from my club, who entered this Law in more detail, discussed it. But in this law, there's one detail, one thing that's not said, and it bothers me terribly, and it's often repeated in ours, so I'd say, in different ways, it concerns Article 11. The law. Therefore, Article 11 sets out different restrictions after the termination of the office of the representative or of any elected or appointed official. Of course it would also be possible to talk about the item (1) of these restrictions, in particular from the aspect of some of the restrictions that we ourselves have introduced in this House, which have a lot to do with it, precisely those restrictions after the term of office has ceased. But listen to the article, paragraph (2) of this Article – the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article do not apply to the acquisition of income and compensation based on participation in international projects financed by the European Union, foreign countries, foreign countries and international organisations and associations. So, when we work for a domestic organization, borrowing and a company we are automatically cloudy, suspicious, corrupt, and as soon as you work for an international organisation of any level and any feline on you is a department of honesty and you have no problems at all. Come on, colleagues and colleagues, let's not humiliate ourselves like that. It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4368	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4369	I am, in a way, sorry to minimize the efforts of a group of Members who have been invested in making this law, and I don't think that all the laws proposed by the Council of Ministers are wonderful and wonderful and I've been a lawyer for 35 years, so I knew when the law was passed, when I first read it, I know where the problem would be in its implementation, although I am not in those highest authorities, I was a lawyer in the economy, etc. So, it sounds kind of ugly to say I'm sorry it's an MP or a group of MPs, which is not the Council of Ministers. Why should we be sorry if we have a bill here that we can discuss, where the first reading is, where there's a possibility of being given an amendment. So, I'm also yesterday, I'm, of course, inexperienced from a number of MPs here, this is my first term, but I already have some things that bother me in the sense that some change or something is proposed, so it should have been systemically. So here's what's not systemically, what's not? If we say, how long did you say, six years? _________(?) Two years. For two years, this process takes place in part, so here was the Council of Ministers of opportunity, according to counterpart Emrić, to offer so far the Law on conflict of interest, why not. 39 If certain things were observed and the faults of all the laws, regulations, etc. What wasn't done? The Council of Ministers could have worked. So, somehow this sounds kind of ugly to me, we're sorry that it's not, Bog, and as my colleague Emrić said, so it's our right, and that's why we're here to propose legislation among other things. Because here and yesterday somehow on the commission whose member I was, well, you know best to do this all at once, these individual changes aren't, so that's what hasn't been done before, the example works. So, and I also think that when things like this start to talk about like conflict of interest, then we immediately mention the protection of personal data, etc. And I think that's kind of an excuse since we're masters to play every law possible and that our status and members of our family can't be a secret to the BiH citizens in any way, because we're also witnessing that our parents, our dolls, etc. are retired. suddenly the owners of the enormous property they couldn't get for life, let alone those money they were receiving, so for the work they were doing. So I think we have here the bill, the first reading, which we need to make known, what the material is for discussion and finally end the legislative process that has been going on for years. And whether we can decide whether we can conflict of interest or not, so here we see that we can't. So, in this way that this Law is regulated, it does not provide for complete independence, and we see, it also means that the blockade of Parliament absolutely means blocking the Commission's work. So this is not a good solution, we have one foundation, people have made efforts to make the law, file it, and let's discuss it. I also don't think it's fashion to ask parliamentary questions, because it's also our right, so from the answers we get we see certain things, so we suggest changes or we discuss budgets, etc. When we see what money is spent on things we don't think we should. So I don't think it's fashion, it's the same our right, so please don't label our activities that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4371	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, the esteemed representative Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4372	I would like first to correct Mr. Emrić's false allegations, which said he was called from the municipal councils and asked for information on the course of proceedings under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. As far as I know, the Federation has its Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and it also has a Republika Srpska and the Federation to establish a body that will implement the procedure. This body at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has no jurisdiction over the level of municipal councils. The second correction to the wrong allegation is what counterpart Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic said, that is our right, that is what Mr Emrić said. No, he said it was our duty as an MP to pass the laws, to give them into parliamentary procedure. I'm correcting his claim, it's not our duty, it's our right, but it's not our duty and it doesn't need to be seen as a duty. It is also not our duty to submit parliamentary initiatives and to ask parliamentary questions. In the previous period, I have read thousands of MPs' questions, which are exactly the same, written by you, Mirjana, written by Aida Baručija, written by Damir Arnaut, who mostly read like this and refer to all the institutions that are financed by the State Dujet – how much money has been spent on official phones, how many contracts on 40 temporary and occasional transactions, how many operating contracts, what is your composition of the fleet, what is the type of vehicle you have, what is the year of production and what is the current accounting value of these vehicles? I am now just wondering what the purpose of these issues is if we know the partial work of the BiH Institutions Audit Office which controls every state institution and which at the end of the year brings a report in which they are found, if any, appropriate irregularities in the use of financial resources. We could go through the Finance and Budget Committee. propose a certain conclusion and say – that the Office for Auditing the financial reports in this year takes special care of these matters. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Not set this size questions, in order to... and these other NGOs to say that these MPs are active, and the rest of us are not active in running an important commission and doing important work in this Parliament. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4373	Thank you. jasmin Emrić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4374	I don't have any other option, but I just have to intervene for a little while, and you, my dear colleagues, can't fix my guilty claim to be called people.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4375	You must say which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4376	I was talking about people not understanding the Commission's jurisdiction...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4377	Okay, thank you, thank you, Mr. Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4378	...and where you'll correct the wrong assumption that people call me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4379	So we don't have any more logs on this agenda. We're going to the next point, thank you. Point eight, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of BiH citizens, Proposer: Representative Zlatan Begić, issue: 01-02-1-1882/19 of 05.11.2019 (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 15.11.2019, the House College appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission as the competent commission. The Constitutional Commission delivered 41 opinions establishing that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the BiH legal system, and has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Representative Zlatan Begić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4381	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed vice-president, the esteemed vice-president of the chair, the esteemed co-worker and fellow guests. You know how, if we look at the draft laws that were on the agenda today, everyone is concerned about the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is about relations within institutions and it is an important thing, in this sense I would really thank you for the effort of all the promoters. Why is this bill specific? He's specific because he's a citizen. This time on the agenda is the only bill that concerns citizens directly and directly. So I'd ask you in that sense, I'll see to it that I'm as brief as possible, as concise as possible and as clear as possible about this bill. In fact, I don't want to go into reasons, especially the reasons for the political nature of why such a law has ever been passed, and it has been passed with very rigid conditions for the application of residence. Now, rightly you have human rights and freedoms that you cannot condition and limit with nothing, and you have those rights that you can limit when there is a legitimate goal and when it is in the interest of democratic society. What does it mean to condition the right to apply for residence? This leads to the right to a personal ticket, which means to condition the right of someone to be involved in legal relations and legal affairs. It means making it an object, not an entity of law. The last time people were rights objects more than 1,000 years ago, during the feudalism. People became subjects of rights and legal relations after civil and bourgeois revolutions on the ground of Europe. Today it is something, therefore, that is the right to legal subjectivity guaranteed by international documents that have an extremity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, something that no longer exists, either indirectly or directly, is not questionable. Now, how is this a limited right to legal subjectivity, i.e. the right to declare residence? Conditions of exclusive nature, imperative nature are laid down to report residence. Either you have to be the owner of the property so you have to provide proof of whether you have to be married or married to the owner of the property, or you have to have a lease contract or, now, be careful what's particularly interesting, you have to attach proof that you have launched a legalisation procedure illegally built or illegally built. Information works in the city of Sarajevo according to estimates there are about 60,000 illegally built buildings. About 80,000 illegally built buildings in Republika Srpska. Now, these facilities were built after the deadlines for legalising illegally built objects, and here's one piece of information, only when it comes to the Novo Sarajevo Municipality, of 4,500 applications submitted for the legalisation of illegally built objects, 1,500 requests were negatively solved. The question is, what about these people? What happens when the I.D. runs out? What happens when a child acquires his age and is required to report residence, of course, to conduct the necessary administrative actions and become the holder of a personal card, without which personal cards cannot even acquire property property in order to report residence and obtain a personal document under this Act. Well, she can't marry or marry without her I.D., can she? So it's a kind of civil death. Now, let's not think that it's just us or the Bosanac or the Balkanac who are prone to illegal construction, and we have a fat reason why these numbers are like this, the fat reason. It's unfortunately this nonsense that we've done in the 1990s and this terrible destruction that we've had 42 housing funds, the banishment where people have come into the situation, sure that there are people here and in the O.R. that they have to make some housewives and that they have to house families, children. Here's some more information, since 1960, in the Republic of Italy where there was no war after World War II, of course, about 4 and a half million of unlawfully built objects to date. In Greece, of 7 million housing houses, it is illegally built, therefore, without the necessary permits. Now imagine that in these countries the rules have been passed on to us for the application of a residence that depends on the issue of a personal card, and that depends, for example, on the application to health insurance, so we have a situation where we are being filmed by the film "The Iron Bears" where the fruit in a woman dies, where a woman survives because she is not registered to health insurance. I will especially talk about the Roma national minority that is particularly affected by this solution, but all citizens are affected by the fact that you know, throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. So imagine the situation that in these countries I've stated is such a regulation? Today you would have tens of millions of citizens of the European Union who have experienced a civil death, who are persons without a personal identification document, who cannot have travel documents, freedom of movement, cannot be hired, cannot be married, cannot apply to health insurance. So they're objects within the legal system and within legal relations. When it comes to members of the Roma national minority in this country, the conventions that oblige us to, I say, introduce positive discrimination. We have a list of 12,000 roma, citizens of Roma nationality in Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the 2013 List. According to the estimates of relevant international organisations, there are between 60,000 and 80,000 of them, so we have between 50,000 and 60,000 people only belonging to the Roma national minority, who do not exist at all for the system, plus all these cases, and sometimes... cases where a young couple stays registered with parents and tomorrow to come up with any judicial problems, it would have happened that they did not even have a life union as an essential component of marriage, because they remained registered with their parents so as not to have these problems imposed on these and such laws. Such provisions are very similar in the Law of the Republic of Serbia. However, those in the Law of the Republic of Serbia are not set out in an exclusive manner in a sense in which they do not fulfil that condition cannot declare their residence and cannot exercise all these other rights, as well as the right to a personal identification document, but are set up as a means of assistance that facilitates the application of their residence with a mandatory supplement and on any other basis where even a national authority is obliged to establish their residence by means of its decision, if the citizen does not have a residence, or does not have the basis to report residence on any basis. So it's a duty for state institutions, and a right for a citizen who can't be restricted. Very briefly, two things that we, for example, fell into a kind of circle during the debate on the Constitutional Legal Commission regarding this law. One of the colleagues asked very correctly – wait a minute, how is it possible that someone who is a citizen of this country cannot get an ID card and report a residence? It's possible, that's exactly why these changes are being proposed. And also, one of my colleagues has noticed that there may be abuse and I agree, but I'm asking you to pay attention to This is about the legal subjectivity of each and every one of us and we can all meet in this situation, and in the amendment phase, if necessary, we will strengthen criminal provisions, while in the event of abuse, and some other preventive measures, if any abuse of this right arises. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I made it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4382	Thank you. We don't have any more logs on this agenda. 43 Let's go to agenda number nine, Ad. Nine. Proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, MPs: Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Predrag Kojović, issue: 01-02-1-1290/18 since 26/02/2019 (first reading) Representatives Mirjana Lepić and Predrag Kojović, in accordance with Rule 201 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, took over the role of the Proposer for that proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, and the legislative procedure was continued, and the former promoter in the previous assembly of the House was the representative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 31.05.2018. The House College has appointed the Constitutional Commission as competent. The constitutional committee delivered opinions. The Commission adopted a proposal to amend its Rules of Procedure. I am opening a debate on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure in the first reading. Dear Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4384	Well, here, I'd just, no matter what you got in the material, so, explain. I won't be long, this is taken over, so the text from Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil's former emissary. Therefore, the current provisions of Article 12. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives which are now in force regulates the exercise of the right to pay and compensation and regulates the status of only those representatives who are in a working relationship with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and it is currently said that the representative who has permanent employment in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has the right to pay for the performance of duties and other fees in accordance with the law and decisions of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, and all MPs have the right to a parliamentary flat, and the right to compensation for certain material costs. What is proposed means, by amending the Rules of Procedure, the proposed amendment more clearly defines the exercise of the right to pay and other fees to MPs as prescribed by the Law on Payments and Compensations in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, or by the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, we already have laws that regulate working-law status and that regulate both salaries and fees and according to this proposed amendment, Article 12. The Rules of Procedure should say that the agent has the right to pay and other fees in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4385	Thank you. We don't have any more logs on this agenda. We're going to agenda number 10. Ad. Ten. Report – a detailed analysis of the work of the BiH Export-Credit Agency with a special emphasis on business with the "Unis" - the Dervent tube factory, with a proposal for measures to address the problem in the work of this agency, applicant: Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-50/17 since 17.05.2018 Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency delivered... Report according to 44 Conclusion with the 50th session of the House held on 26.07.2018. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has examined and received the Report of Knowledge, and has proposed to the House the adoption of the following conclusion: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly representative's House of Representatives is tasked by the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency to work with entity governments as the founders of the Agency to opt for a change in the future of the Export-Credit Agency. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4387	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a report on the multi-month work of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, and even an ad hoc commission that was formed to determine the situation in the Export Credit Agency, which is the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose task is actually to support export-oriented companies from Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, due to the issue of guarantees that did not appear to have a coverage, primarily because of the Dervent tube factory, Unis, amounting to around 180 million KM, this Export Credit Agency has come into a situation that it cannot function normally. Both the multi-month work and the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs and the Ad hoc Commission has ordered a set of conclusions and needs to be determined, i.e. to identify what we really want more with this Agency, whether we want to shut it down, whether we want to go into bankruptcy, and to form a new agency, etc., but there is one agency missing from our businesses that will guarantee the export of our forms. So I ask you, since this is the remaining obligation from last term, because this, as you can see, is in the July 2018 request, and since the unhappiness of this Parliament has only now come on the agenda. So I ask you to support and be in charge of the Council of Ministers to finally give up what he wants with this Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4388	Thank you. Dear Representative Mira Pekić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4389	Well, here, I will refer to this report, i.e. a detailed analysis of the work of the Export Credit Agency, with a particular emphasis on business with Unis, the Dervent tube factory, with a proposal for measures to address the problem in the work of this agency. If this item of the agenda and the 2017 House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly is observed, this material should have much more pages and should say much more to help us determine our position on the Export Credit Agency of BiH. What was done on the basis of the conclusion of the BiH House of Representatives, it is an urgent appointment of the Management Board. As far as I know, the board of directors of the Export Credit Agency is names, n and delivery of material to the D.A.'s office, they said they did it. Secondly, the urgent decision to determine an optimal solution for further work of the Export Credit Agency is not fulfilled, nothing has been done on this issue. The Export Credit Agency continues to face problems in its business, and nothing has been done with numerous court proceedings, nor have these trials been completed. IGA is the Law that this body passed in 2004 and 45 was formed with 51.35 million KM founding capital. With that founding capital, IGA started working. The task of the Export-guarantee Agency itself was to serve export-oriented enterprises in terms of how credit insurance, i.e. factoring, guarantees and data themselves in the credit rating of certain enterprises. These legal decisions also provide for the establishment of an inter-minister council or council with the role to consider the information submitted on business and to provide guidance for IGA's work. However, never has the Interminister Council been formed, and the IGA continued to work and to give guarantees and to pile up losses, so the result of what we have received in this material, that the Export Credit Agency has submitted 230, about 230 million marks of the value of the case against clients due to the debt and that the lawsuits brought against the Export Credit Agency are about 80 million KM. This is the result of the work and the result of the work is that the Independent Auditing House Deloitte did not in general assess the business of the Export-Credit Agency but abstained from giving an opinion on what is worse and from the negative opinion itself, because it does not see the reason and does not see the possibility of continuing business and business activities of this Export-Credit Agency. I really thought that we should propose new conclusions at this session, but these existing conclusions that we adopted, adopted by this House in 2017, were not respected and did nothing but these two things that I mentioned at the outset. So I think that this Commission proposal for, Mr Mehmedović, too, is quite correct and that this proposal could go to the Management Board and the Export Credit Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to opt for a variant of further resolution of the future of the Export Credit Agency. There's something else we have here, and that's that, that I've been looking at in the report on the work of the Management Board for 2018, the Management Board of Export-Credit Agency has invited audit houses, which we don't know here, audit houses to help them choose the best solution to overcome the problem. So that's something we need to take care of here. The Management Board of the IGA means, uh, requires further assistance from both audit houses and other institutions, so this information that we have received, this information that we are about to discuss today, at the very least, is unserious. None of our conclusions have been made, we have no rights, none of the proposals for the further work of IGA is well explained, here it's all said superficially, it hasn't been entered into a deeper analysis, so I think that we, that we, another longer period will deal with these problems and with the reports of the Export-guarantee Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4390	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermin Nikšić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I have not participated in the work of the previous House of Representatives, so I cannot complain that these conclusions have not been made, though, and this shows how ready they were in the Agency to respect the relationship between the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. First of all, I can't say that this is any kind of thing, here I agree with my colleagues, a detailed analysis, and especially I can't accept that detailed analysis is done by those who brought the Agency into this state. So, I sincerely hope that we will come to the stage to start discussing what is in the mandate of this House of Representatives and what should be our relationship to this but I cannot accept that we are in charge of those who have brought the Agency into this condition that they are now proposing 46 what is the solution. When I see these numbers here and these millions that are listed, I wonder who's normal here. We have done ours, and have finished, and now we say, "Let us suggest what we shall do, and Bog will make you rejoice." So, at the very least, I think that the conclusion should be complemented by asking some competent institutions to come in, check the legality of business and those who have worked and brought the Agency into this phase, uh, call for responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4392	Thank you. We don't have any more logs on this agenda item. We're going to the next point, point 11. Ad. 11. Annual consolidated internal audit report for 2017, Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-16-1-1329/18 since 31.05.2018 As the committee responsible for this material, the House College appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget. The Commission submitted its opinion, the report was accepted and forwarded further to the procedure with a proposal to the House for adoption. I'm opening a debate on the report. No log-ins on this agenda. We're closing the debate. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Consolidated report on the financial management and control system in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, issue: 01,02,03-16-1-1330/18 of 31.05.2018
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4396	I will refer to the Court and Court Report for 2018. We had this material at the emergency session of the House, but it was not attended, therefore, by all MPs. I will, of course, shorten what I have already said, but I believe that the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council should be discussed, that this is a very lively topic in the public for months, and the live subject is also in this House, since the Commission that was formed at this emergency session of the House of Representatives, which was therefore to be established and which was to be examined by the state of justice. I would first of all refer to the composition of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which is in the report, so I am talking about the 2018 Report and just to ask, since I am not an experienced MP, was the president present today, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4397	We have information here that there are members present outside the VSTV.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4398	Yeah, yeah, well, I mean, I'm asking, I don't know. So, first of all, I would refer first of all to the composition of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, where only the lethemic search of some electronic media tells us, when we start from one member to another, it shows us that most of them are related to the affair and that it seems to the judiciary, of course, honor of exceptions, has become a reference to the highest judicial and prosecutorial functions, so if we have affairs behind us, which is embarrassing in any case. The VSTV Act itself says that members of the High and Judicial and Prosecutorial Council must be persons, among other things, of high moral quality, which is not the case with the person who is headed by this 48 institution and who is therefore involved in the common known affair "Pottering". The report also states that, therefore, for these principles of morality and ethics that improved ethical codes are related to the work of judges and prosecutors in 2018 and that, therefore, the concept of integrity and proper behaviour has been introduced. I would not say that this criterion in the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is fulfilled, because here again, we have witnessed the misbehavior of the head of this institution who, therefore, is discussing the current legal case. The report also said that nearly 100 million from 2004 to 2018 were spent on judicial reform, but the goal was not achieved. So, that this is true confirms the European Commission's report and popularly called Mr. Pribe's Report, and I'm also a little surprised but also worried about the report's findings that media inscriptions violate the reputation and independence of the judiciary. It really bothered me because if all these conditions required by the Law were met in terms of ethics, quality of conduct, etc., and the conditions that stand in the ethical code for judges and prosecutors, then the media would really have no business because we are in a situation today to see that the media unfortunately reveal affairs, rather than dealing with crime in a legally regulated way. What, especially from the aspect of gender equality and what hurts me as a woman in some way, and what I saw in this report is that when it comes to gender equality, awareness of gender equality within the judiciary is at the middle level. Please, we have the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination One is in effect 10, one is in force for 9 years and we still have awareness of gender equality at a low level when it comes to both courts and prosecutors, and this shows in fact that research into the NGO sector again says that this consciousness is not at the middle level, but at a low level, because judges and prosecutors themselves do not know whether or not it belongs to discrimination, gender inequality and the like. Also, I've had 895 complaints about the work of legal holders, and it certainly speaks to the state of our judiciary and that, therefore, the VSTV cannot be commended for some success. It is certain that the issue of amending the VSTV Act must be considered in any case, especially when it comes to the responsibility of the VSTV members, because they really do not know who they are responding to, who can prosecute them except, of course, some criminal procedure. Also, therefore, so that the judiciary should be impartial, of course, I agree, it should be independent, but in any case it does not involve self-will. Yes, the confirmation of these allegations is also in the report of experts on the state of BiH's rule of law or popularly called the Pribe report where one of the conclusions that the VSTV needs is a thorough reform and radical change of behaviour because the VSTV is perceived as a power that does not account for anyone in the hands of persons who serve the interests of the networks of political, patrons and influences. As a central institution that needs to ensure the independence and functioning of the BiH judiciary, the legal framework and the work of the VSTV must be significantly improved to better serve the interests of the judiciary and citizens. Also, the VSTV as a regulatory body, therefore, also dealt with the European Commission's opinion on the request for membership in the European Union for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all got it in materials, I won't bother this House with what it is, which in that report stands, but in any case it may be a guideline for further work and for improving the work of VSTV, and above all a guideline for amendments to the Law on VSTV.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4399	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4400	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know how it happened, and I don't know why it's happening at all, but my correction of the wrong allegation refers to you, the chairman, who said there was supposed to be someone present at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I know there's no High Court and Prosecutorial Council present.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4401	We have information here that Mrs. Željka Radović is present and Mrs. Edis Šikalo VSTV, from the list of present.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4402	You see, for years now, I also remember in my term as Minister and attended here Parliament's meetings, the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council ignores this Parliament, will not come to this Parliament and he doesn't care, to say so, at all what this Parliament thinks about it and this report. It seems to me, if I'm not mistaken, that once upon a time and a session of Parliament was interrupted and he was invited, a pause was made and invited to come and that after a while it seemed to me that he came here to the session and then to do this, the debate continued. Are we discussing this report here for ourselves? What is the point of this, in general, of this debate here? I think it's like, it's an important burning topic, and since it's already been said that there's a European Commission report on BiH's progress, that it has this so-called. Pribe's report, that's it. very, let me put it this way, difficult reports, to find the VSTV president here, to come, to bring out the basics of this report and then to discuss here. [[the speaker is warned on time]] If we're going to meet here ourselves to apologize for this report There's no point. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And to conclude, here's just look at how much he respects and appreciates this House when this accompanying act and this document has been delivered to us and signed by Deputy Director of the Secretariat Hajro Pošković, some.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4403	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4404	If you'll just let me suggest, let's get this off the agenda and invite the president of the VSTV to come here and open a serious topic. There are a thousand problems here, the state doesn't function for failure of the judicial system and the rule of law. If someone thinks that we can get over it easily, that it's not a big deal, then we're here to skin ourselves, and we're not giving ourselves any meaning, and then we're being...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4405	Thank you, thank you, you must limit yourself at the time scheduled for discussion. Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4406	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 50 In many ways, he would agree with the reaction of a respected counterpart, Mektić, because in Bosnia and Herzegovina there seems to be no major problem to deal with this House of Justice, because it is one of the main reasons why it is one of the key reasons for leaving the most quality part of the BiH population precisely unfairly and closely related to this corruption that has affected all the pores of our social life. Of course, I didn't expect the president or chairman of the VSTV to be at the session today, because he doesn't seem to like hearing a little or different opinion from what he has on the work of the VSTV. And the key question is what are we going to do today, here we are going to apologize, we're going to say a few criticisms at the expense of VSTV's work, and we're going to take it or not accept it, or receive this information about VSTV's work. For this reason, I think it is most likely that we are discussing the situation in BiH's judiciary today, and the key factor for repairing the situation in BiH's judiciary is just as a regulator, starting with its basic role as defined in the law, meaning both the humanisation and determination of the principles and equal and uniform approach to the work of the BiH judiciary exactly the basic task of the VSTV. Of course, they will not come to listen to this because they force BiH institutions to provide them with significant funds in the BiH budget and under the cloak of independence they are, of course, doing what they are doing and we have such affairs as we have, as my predecessors have spoken of. I mean, here I read this report for one year and for another, and if you look at the donor diagram, it's mostly the same thing, the same factors of the European Union, Norway and Switzerland, can be a percentage, two, three up, but mostly here from year to year are mostly these three factors that are additionally funded by VSTV. The question arises – who do they account for their work? We do not have any jurisdiction as authentic representatives of the citizens of BiH, they do not account except perhaps for their donors and is asking the question – who do they actually work for? They do not work for BiH citizens, because the situation in the BiH judiciary is such that citizens no longer trust the BiH judiciary. If you don't believe it means there's a series of anomalies that burden you bh. Guys. That's why I want to look back at some of the key issues, first -- personneling. There are many judges and prosecutors who have been appointed by the VSTV to perform significant duties, from the municipal here to the state level, which are related to certain affairs. Second, the deposit of an account. We do not need VSTV to account in Parliament, but we need to account for the citizens. How, in what way? Directly or indirectly. However, it is obvious to account for certain embassies working in Bosnia and Herzegovina or donors who have funds. Third, an unequal approach, i.e. the application of an innovative strategy for the processing of RZ objects. I say this rightly because this innovative strategy is already being applied on the ground, and it has not been adopted at all by the Council of Ministers and they say we are independent, we are not politically colored, this is the most direct interference in politics. In fact, their work defines in this way the character of war in BiH, a direct and difficult political issue that burdens all institutions in BiH. That's why I say there were no more questions than to have Mr. Tegeltija come and listen here and talk about how to get out of this state of justice in BiH. I think that and I support that we declare whether to postpone the debate on this issue until it comes and the chairman of the VSTV and its deputies or to say in fact, we as Parliament are powerless to address the issue which is a key issue, here I am fully responsible for saying that this is a key issue of the problem in BiH. And so here's why I suggest we plead, delay this debate and ask the VSTV chairman to be present or present in this House when we discuss these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4407	Thank you. Honorable representative Alma Čolo, discussion. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4408	Thank you, Chairman. Before I take my word for it, I want to convey my intimate experience that I am, which I carry within me five minutes ago, when a journalist called me to go out and make a statement about why I'm against the Law of Conflict of Interest. The law on conflict of interest is a systemic, anti-corruption law, so if I'm against the Law of Conflict of Interest, because it was passed to her by an MP here from the O.R., then I'm someone who supports corruption and means I have no credibility to discuss the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. But here's the feeling of bitterness, uh, I'm still going to say something about this report, and I'm sorry there's no chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, because today her report should be on the agenda. This report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is in fact a summary report by the BiH judiciary, in my opinion it's not just a picture of the VSTV, it's a picture of all the judicial institutions in BiH and here are the people of the VSTV, who can also answer certain questions, why the situation in the judiciary is as it is. I'm going to say a few figures and I'm interested in fighting crime, because I've been a prosecutor for 10 years, and it's kind of closer to me, and I think fighting crime is a key issue of the BiH judiciary, and that's this second part, the part that applies to criminal justice, and not to civil justice, and I'm going to focus on it. If we start from the assumption that there is no court action without the prosecutor's treatment, that it means the principle of.... "there is no court ruling without the prosecution's indictment," then I believe the key role of the BiH prosecutor's office in the process of crime in this country is. If this processing of crime isn't effective, I'll point out, I'll draw a conclusion from only two data. According to the report, 12,206 indictments were filed last year against 14,700 people. 12,206 indictments, it may seem a lot to some, but there are 368 prosecutors in BiH. You have 56 at the BiH Prosecutor's Office, 59 of them and a disgrace to the prosecutor's system, that the chief prosecutor was suspended and that the deputy chief prosecutor, who was head of the Special Department for Economic Crime, Organized Crime and Corruption, was suspended, and one prosecutor went on second duty. So there were 56, and originally 59. The federal prosecutor's office has 10, Republika Srpska's prosecution has 11, the RS district prosecutors in 86, and the 205 cantonal, in the Federation of 10 cantonal prosecutors. That's 368 prosecutors, who managed to file 12,206 indictments in the previous year, that's 33 indictments per prosecutor per year, which on average is less than 3 months. Of this number, the prosecutor, which raises three indictments per month, certainly does not fight crime effectively. I'm not going to say that the prosecutor has no other business, they're taking orders not to carry out an investigation, they're taking orders to suspend an investigation, they're going to make sense of it, but the indictment is the only prosecution act that leads to a judgmental or acquittal. We're talking about a convict here, because they're important to the fight against crime. Of which, only 218 corruption charges, only 218, means none by prosecutor, 368 prosecutors and 218 corruption charges, even less than last year, when that situation was 6% less than last year when it was very bad, the number of convictions decreased by 446. The truth is, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has established a Regulation on orientation criteria for calculating the prosecutor's norms and judges to evaluate their work, but whether these rules are well done, whether they reflect the real situation and whether they provide an effective fight against crime in this country. In the VSTV report there is also one table – a review of crime by crime. I've paid particular attention to crimes that are elsewhere, the biggest crimes against property, these are thefts and robbery, and it's the easiest to process, they've got the most. Others are against human health, including the crimes of drug abuse, the production and marketing of intoxicating drugs. A few years ago, we introduced a particularly criminal act involving the possession and possession of intoxicating comrades, there are some number of indictments 52 that I don't think are enough, I don't know about 1,700 indictments, and we know that intoxicating drugs, breaking up in large cities is really a monster that poisons this youth, and I think there should be a more effective fight against crime. I would ask one of the VSTV members, do they think that the reform of the prosecution, which was done in 2003, when 58 municipal prosecutors in the Federation and 23 prosecutors were suspended in Republika Srpska, means 81 prosecutors were abolished, which were prosecutors dealing with criminal acts for which a prison sentence was threatened for up to 10 years, means those milder aspects of crime – do they think that the reform was done well by the prosecutor's system and the judiciary in BiH, and did the prosecution system become more effective in the processing of criminal offences, especially since prosecutors were then given the investigation? The investigation was conducted by an investigative judge until 2003. tužilac take an active role, so they have to go out on the spot, make an insight, give orders to police officers to conduct special investigations and investigations, such as on the scene and other investigative actions, confiscation of cases, and all that is prescribed by the Criminal Procedure Act – do they think that this kind of reform of the prosecution system is good and that this should remain this way? I really think that this is one of the key questions why so few charges, and few charges are a little judgment, there are few people who are being put in and in, taken to the maintenance of the sentence, and thus do not achieve the objectives of special and general prevention, and these are the objectives of punishment. So it also acts on the perpetrators of crimes that they no longer commit crimes, and also on all those who are potential perpetrators, means that they are specifically and generally prevented against all other potential perpetrators of criminal acts, so here I am if I support conflict of interest, to keep this thing this way, that we are not being punished for conflict of interest. I'm asking the prosecutors to do their job.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4409	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4410	Thank you, Chairman. Well, Mrs. Čolo, I don't think it's a problem in reform, although there are things that the judiciary should build up, improve, correct and correct, but the problem is that in judicial institutions, and primarily in the Prosecutor's Office and BiH, and probably at lower levels, for which I don't have that much information, inhaled crime and corruption and there are criminal-political dealings with power, with political parties and with criminal mileage. That's the problem and it needs to be cleaned up. We clean up crime and corruption from the prosecution, then there'll be honest people, there'll be responsible people, and then there won't be any problems, that's one thing. The second thing, for you chairman, is it worth anything that I suggested that this should be removed from the agenda until the chairman arrives, what Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović suggested or you just say – well, thank you and announce the next. Or if he can't say why he can't. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4411	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatan Begić, discussion. As long as there are discussions we give the word to the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4412	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the President, the Honorable Fellows and fellow Members. I agree with my colleague, Mektić, in the world from which I come, there is no discussion about the report of those who are not present, it is taken off the agenda. Unfortunately, we've already adopted the agenda, so now we can't take this off at half-session. However, the right to tell you I am not going to enter this report at all, nor do I want to analyze it, although I have read it, nor do I want to express my position. I will present my position on the work of the judiciary in a book that I am preparing, which is based on an analysis of what the judiciary was doing on the ground, and that book will most likely be called the judiciary in the land of wonders or in a similar way, with all due respect, with respect to the people in the judiciary who do their job well and who it has, therefore. And, of course, with respect and gratitude to fellow Members, ladies from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, who are still here with us today, but today he had to be president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. In that sense, I am, right to tell you, against us continuing to whine here for the next three years, and what should we do with this report, and the president of the VSTV has not come, and what we can do and if we do not receive and if we do not know, as soon as we have examined him we must have received him. One, and in this sense we will propose very soon and in one very, very professionally done way, we will propose a draft law on amendments to the Law on VSTV that should finally regulate relations between this Parliament, as the highest representative of the national sovereignty in BiH and the judicial branch of the government. As a young democracy, BiH also suffers from certain misunderstandings of basic democratic principles, including the principles of power-sharing. The principle of power-sharing does not mean that any branch of government should alienate itself, answer itself, and that it is not subject to any kind of supervision. The principle of power-sharing without a balanced balance of the brake system and the balance between the three branches of the government, which currently does not exist in relation to the judiciary, leads to something that cannot be called a democratic society and the efficiency of the institutions. In this country, there cannot be, nor in any democratic country, that we understand each other, except that we are often part of an experiment of the international community, where BiH is a very cheap polygon for the implementation of various projects here, you know, because it is too expensive to do such an experiment in their own country and within their own society. There can be no bearer of any branch of government who is not subject to review the way he works and responsibility for what he's done. In that sense we will propose a very nearly one law that will be very professionally done, very balanced, where we will finally try to settle these relations with the judicial branch of power and that we no longer ask anyone to come here, whether, and defend that some of their reports. Although it's a matter of elemental decency again, my adoption report is here first, but unfortunately we've come to that as well. The position of the BiH judiciary branch, which, in my opinion, is part of a failed experiment, is about as if in October 2022 we would lock ourselves in this hall and pass a fine regulation that we choose ourselves again and that we alone answer here and whoever touches us to say, please touch you, you are touching the highest constitutional and legislative authority in this country, we need to be independent in order to be the highest constitutional and legislative authority. So the levers are in our hands, I've never asked 54 people in my life, nor will I pray, nor do I intend to do that. We will therefore propose this proposal to amend and supplement the law, again I say, which will be very sophisticated and balanced done, at a high professional level which could and should finally end this agony when it comes to the general position of the judiciary, especially when it comes to the highest constitutional and legislative authority in this country, which is this Parliamentary Assembly. We are also subject to the public court, we are subject to criticism, we are subject to all kinds of questioning and questioning, even when our mandates cease, although a significant number of us have not fallen from the pear here, nor have we come from the bureau here for, to these parliamentary benches, but have come with thick biographies and with significant, even international careers and references. Well, any institution of any branch of government must be subject to all this in a completely equal manner and only when an appropriate balance is established between the executive, legislative and judicial authorities on the principle of the brake and balance system can we expect the full capacity of work and justice, which should be a pillar of the rule of law, and therefore also the political elites that are partly gathered in the institutions of the executive and legislative authority in this country. I thank you, and I apologize if I've been a little overextended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4413	Thank you very much. Just to remove this previous dilemma regarding the proposing representative, so in accordance with Article 74. The Rules of Procedure which prescribes that the Proposer, or representative of the Proposer, must be present at the House, we have information, or our secretary has received information, that the VSTV member Željka Radović is authorised in front of the motion to attend today's session, and if they wish... the urgency to be the VSTV president is then the best way to do so is by the distinguished representative Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, who proposed the conclusion that a thematic session on the situation in the judiciary and the work of VSTV be organised with the mandatory presence of the VSTV president. Here are some combinations of how what part of the MPs wants to attend the session to discuss the work of the VSTV is also attended by his president. I think a distinguished representative of Mirjana was first reported. The violation of the Rules of Procedure Saša Magazinović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4414	Chairman, since you have now interpreted the Rules of Procedure, just one question – can we now, in accordance with your interpretation, ask the representative of the VSTV to address us here and listen a little bit, so that we can continue to discuss, possibly ask, and get some answers? Because physical presence as such means nothing to us, this is transmitted directly, is it, can be traced from VSTV, if that representative is authorized to speak and give us answers, then it's quite acceptable and let us hear it a little bit and ask a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4415	We agree if, of course, he is not a representative and is not authorized to give answers and comment on your questions then we cannot treat him as a proponent of this material. So you can normally ask for answers from others. 55 Okay, let's just see these other corrections to the wrong quote. Dear Representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4416	I would only correct Mr. Begić's allegations. I mean, we don't complain here, we don't pray, we don't want to. I think we have a duty to express our position, and here you have just read the conclusion, I wanted to do it orally and I think we should organise the thematic session with an explicit request to be attended by Mr. Tegelti and the sooner things happen very quickly, and the latest news is that the prosecutor in the Memić case, which means he lost the dispute and where the whole affair broke out around that case, will be promoted to the cantonal prosecutor. So, another one of the affairs, and that's why I think that we should have the thematic session as soon as possible, with an explicit request to be attended by Mr. Tegelti.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4417	Thank you. So I repeat once again that we have an authorised proposing representative who can ask questions and from whom you can ask answers to your questions. Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4418	Thank you, Chairman. Let's not fool ourselves, and let's not put our heads in the sand and not waste ourselves here on some unnecessary malice and not be bored with the citizens and the people by dispersing some demagogy we've formed here some time ago an Survey Committee and we've commissioned it to carry out some kind of public hearing with the bearers, the highest holders of judicial functions here and to report it to this Parliament. And you know what VSTV President Milan Tegeltija's first statement and reaction was? I'm not bound by it, they're politicizing things, I'm not interested in it. This is another proposal, Mrs Mirjana, whether Mirjana is, Mrs Mirjana, who is not a farmer, does not respect man, does not hold us. He will say – I have no obligation to you, I am independent, etc., etc. Don't make a fool of yourself. That's why I suggested, so just once again, he's not coming, he's not interested in this story, the man has no obligation to do this, so I suggested, not that, uh, we're getting off the agenda, but we couldn't at first take the point off the agenda because we didn't know if he was going to show up at this agenda point. I respect these colleagues as much as they came here, I appreciate, I respect, and next time we'll get a cleaning lady here, coffee cook. They won't react to this either, I don't suggest we take it off the agenda, we couldn't take it off at first, we didn't know if it was coming or not, let's postpone it now with a request to come And I think this is the report, and it's not information, and as far as I know, information is being received, and the reports are being adopted. [[the speaker is warned on time]] First time I've heard... come. and beaded, that the accounts should be received into knowledge. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4419	Dear Representative Zlatan Begić, correcting the wrong allegations. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4420	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. As long as there are no institutional mechanisms of supervision, control and sanctions, however strictly you write any request, it's just whining, nothing else. And with that request, the only thing here is Mr. Mektić has one of those similar held in his hand, so one thing we can do with that request, we can find some big cat and hang that cat on the tail. So we have in our hands constitutional jurisdiction and legislative jurisdiction and we can create institutional responsibility mechanisms here. As long as there aren't any of these mechanisms and we're gonna be crying and we're gonna cry, and we're gonna cry, and we're gonna be citizens, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4421	Thank you. Dear Representative Branislav Borenović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4422	Thank you. Coli Mektić was right in part when he said that we had formed an investigative commission of the House of Representatives whose task was, that is, to investigate the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions. Gentlemen, we are unable to establish this Commission of Investigation for more than six months, and we have been voted here by 27 of us to conclude the highest legislative House in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not enter the reasons why this has not been done, who is guilty, you will probably have to give us an answer one day by yourself sitting and running this House, but it is a shame and a shame not to respect your own decision in the House of Representatives for which we voted on 26 June, I think, last year, I will repeat it again, and on the basis of Rule 29 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative. We have established the Interim Investigation Commission of the House of Representatives whose aims will be to investigate the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions with a special reference to the ability of the BiH VSTV to participate in the processes necessary on the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards membership in the European Union. Very specific. Where is this Commission today? Why isn't it built? Why is the obligation of this Parliament avoided more than half a year ago and then, of course, this Commission of Investigation would have the power to have all these people who ignore the people's will and MPs listen to him, ask him to ask for information, to call him and thus prepare for this Parliament a detailed report on what we're talking about because the question is what it is every couple of weeks or months to talk about the same thing where people ignore us? [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4423	Thank you. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4424	I would not disrespect this distinguished House in such a way as to say that the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives hang the cat on the tail. I think that this report is very important for the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for all citizens of this country who have lost confidence in the judicial system and we have already discussed this report at the emergency session and adopted conclusions as counterpart Borenović read, not only this conclusion but also some other long conclusions. So what do we have now? Of course, the VSTV, or VSTV president, did not come to this session. So he thus shows his relationship with this respected House. And what does this esteemed House represent? So it represents the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all citizens of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then the president of the VSTV degrades all of us who are well-intentioned, who by our well-intentioned debates, critics, point out what citizens think about the judicial system and all judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So are we gonna hang that cat on the tail? Well, we won't, gentlemen. Well, we'll force the conclusions, because what else do we have, we don't have any other instruments. We have, so a group of MPs, you said well, we're going to make a new text of the law, so again someone will feel uncomfortable, why are MPs doing it, why didn't the Council of Ministers do it, why didn't the Ministry of Justice do it, why didn't the Justice Department react, why do you MPs react, why do you write books and laws? We're losing the sense of sitting here if we're going to say Our conclusions are not binding on anyone. [[the speaker is warned on time]] They're very obliging, but the ones that we're supposed to come up with these conclusions show about themselves and the function they perform. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4425	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatan Begić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4426	Well, here's the one, and these discussions that we're having here, unfortunately, here's how we see a lot of people in VSTV, and these are our conclusions that absolutely didn't force them to come here today and until we figure out and establish institutional mechanisms or at least try, me, as far as I know, we never even tried. Here, we offer the text, we offer the mechanisms of responsibility and control and supervision, as far as I know, it's never even been tried. As long as we don't do that, I'm staying with me, we can hang all that cat on the tail, and we can also see it from the relationship and behavior of the VSTV, the leading men in the VSTV. I'm re-exempting people who are here and I thank you, but the most responsible, responsible VSTV faces who got so worked up and scared they didn't even show up at this session. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4427	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in fact, one substitute or a supplement to Mr. Begić, so the man told you everything, so the question is, could we have made that conclusion at all? But I remember well, so maybe half of the MPs here, when the only HDZ people voted against VSTV's information back two or three reports, and you all supported them back then. Now someone doesn't like it, so the reports or the information are collapsing. Do you know what our problem is? 58 The problem is, here's the first time I'm going to admit, here in front of the public and in front of you, I've often kept something inside of me not to say what I think about certain questions, and I'm a representative. You know why, because both the previous mandate, or the composition, and this, constantly this House itself and someone is accusing us and everyone wants to be independent of us, all of us are independent of ourselves. And just before we discussed the Law of Conflict of Interest, we would all like to be independent of ourselves, and we are the only representatives of the people. We are the only ones who can talk about everything and everything that is on our mind and knowledge and information, but often when... colleagues and part of you responds that we do not need it, that we need to free some of them from Parliament, then they need nothing to report to the Parament, and when they do, they should report to Parliament. Everyone should report to this Parliament if we ask for it, I am for it, but if you do, don't let us be hypocrites, so we are the only representatives, we only have the original jurisdiction of the people who gave it to us. We're the only ones who can talk about anything, and why does someone need to get away from us? Why should one of us be independent? Why doesn't someone need to report to us? We all need a report, we all need it... because we are the only representatives the people have chosen, everyone else is elected in one way or another, and no, when they answer, give us the VSTV, the D.A.'s office, then it's no good, there's corruption, crime, where we get the right to talk like that, and we don't give the information about it. Come on, bring out the data, bring out the case that it is. Report if you're agents, and don't let us argue here when we like it, when we don't like it, then we should all be independent of us. Come on, don't, so the gentleman said rightly, if we make a mechanism, we get a regulation, of course he'll be passing reports on to us, then we'll adopt, knock down, accept Not like this, we're talking by heart. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4429	Thank you. Dear Representative Predrag Kojović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4430	I thank the chairman. If you'll just let me, since I'm not sure I'm going to have this opportunity to agree with Mr. Lovrinović again, that this is the most legislative body in terms of representativeness, and that there are no institutions that do not correspond to this body. I wasn't sure I'd have this chance to get back together with my colleague, so I took this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4431	Always a good opportunity to take advantage, is it? Dear Representative Nermin Nikšić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4432	Here, I'm not correcting any false allegations. I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, unfortunately, I'm in the line of those MPs who thinks we're still having a rather groundless debate today, but I have to say that I'm less bothered that the VSTV president isn't present, and I don't want to tell the difference between the members, especially if someone authorized people to be here. I'm actually more bothered by some practice that's been established in this House, 59, which we've sat down to today, that only when the MPs are proposing some materials, they're interpreting them. So, simply no one has the need to explain the bill, no one has the need to go to VSTV, to explain their report, or I don't know what, what next. Let's just say it bothers me more, and I'm totally in agreement with my colleague, Begić, who's talking about that, therefore, he wasn't saying that it's a groundless debate, but that we don't really have some institutional jurisdiction that's going to result in some major changes, whatever we do here today, and whatever we do. Again, on the other hand, somehow you're acting there, you know, if there's no discussion, let's move on, no one checked in. When we apply for the discussion, then we say there's no need to delay the debate, because there are people who are registered for the discussion, so it's always, what's older coke or egg? So, I'm still going to say a few sentences about this just to shake out a little bit and what's on my heart. So, the independence of the judiciary that I would really like to see that moment happen that way. I'll say, let's say, one experience I had as Prime Minister of the Federation in proceedings before the Constitutional Court, the Federal Constitutional Court where we had several proceedings and where each of these proceedings in favour of the Government ended. What bothers me, if you put down the cover and change the voice of the judges who are, that you can't recognize who it is, when you ask a question you can recognize what nationality is or what kind of political option... Here,..., so, you took part in it so... So it's simple, and people are up to retirement appointed to that function. So you have a constitution, you stick to it, you don't need anything else, you don't have to deal with anything else, but it's just like that. If we were to conduct a survey among the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'm sure if we didn't get a worse result, but at least 80% of the citizens would say that the judiciary is not independent, like, here, and among us here, to do so, so... And here's an eclectic example, we had in the government an example that a national balance was violated within the ministers. The municipal court judge makes a decision saying it is not because, for God's sake, every minister in the Federation government has a deputy from another nation's ranks. So that was changed 12 years ago by amendments, that was before the Federation established the constitutionality of all three constituent nations. What can you say to that? Make a press conference as prime minister and... does a woman know that this... I think I'm sure she does, and she does. Then there goes the appeal of how you influence the independence of the judiciary and this independent judiciary ends up getting that woman's promotion from the Basic Court directly to the Federation of BiH Supreme Court in three months. And then we're talking about the functioning of the judiciary, about how, uh, it's real and it's VSTV. Should we even remember here examples of spectacular arrests and high political officials and ordinary citizens who eventually end up with a liberating verdict and no consequences, here, as my colleague Mirjana said earlier, by prosecutors and by those who lead the process, but still get a promotion. Is there anywhere in the world that this is how it happens and that it can go like that? We had the opportunity recently to see Mr Rajnhard Pribe's report as an independent legal expert of the European Union who presented this report to the European Commission, members of the European Union and domestic authorities. The report is called – A report by experts on the state of rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the report literally points to a number of deeply worrying shortcomings in the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Did anyone deal with this report? Is anyone trying to change the state, or to correct these relationships? And why, from the angle of what we're talking about, it's enough to look at a twisted picture in the mirror and to brag about how well we are and, uh, not to change. Not to lie, judicial reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the worst reforms implemented. I remember well what the pressure of the international community was to get into it and do, how our hands were turned in the federal parliament to vote and to come to that. I agree on this, and I will be very happy and I will participate in this and wait for this proposal that my colleague Begić was talking about, because it is actually the only way we can change, try to change the situation in this area. 60 I would like to remind you that once in this period, 2012, in 2013, we have made some political agreement and signed an SNSD and SPD agreement that we are going to reform the judiciary in a way that the main prosecutors choose Parliament, that they must submit a report to Parliament. So when they get here, let them sweat a little bit so we can see if his charges fell, or if they're done, they're done with the verdict. Then the public is so alarmed by the international community's representatives that it is nowhere, from the countries where the king appoints the prosecutor say -- where Parliament will choose, so what will Parliament choose. Well, here we are, just with a view in the region, in the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament elects the Attorney General. In Serbia, the parliament is elected by both the chief prosecutor and the presidents of the courts. And what's the issue here? Eh, he says, we have not reached that level of democracy that Parliament chooses. And so I agree with my colleague Lovrinović, so let this be Parliament, let us be the worst, but we are chosen, which we are not qualified to decide whether someone is doing their job quality or not. And because of that, whatever we conclude today, these conclusions will not have any effect or consequences, not according to the VSTV, not according to the situation in the judiciary, but regardless of what we have here and here in the position and opposition, here and as the representative of the opposition I am very interested in participating and contributing, to try to regulate the situation and to pass laws that will allow and that this Parliament, in addition to the rest of the intervention where it considers it necessary to intervene when it is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4433	Thank you. Today, the entire opposition agrees with Mr. Lovrinović. It's time to finish this session, bring her to an end. Honorable representative Zukan Helez, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4434	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, media representatives. I am of the opinion that whatever our powers are, this is a very important topic and a very important point. If you look at the agenda carefully, this or any other session, all and one point somehow comes to this point, the review, the auditors show, you don't respect the remarks, every year they don't respect each other, and it all comes down to whether the prosecutor is going to run some application or write the indictment. That's why I think this is very important and you can't say it's not up to us. We are the ones who pass the laws, we are the ones who need to pass the Law on VSTV and I do not fully agree with my colleague Begić, I think it is so bad this Law that he cannot be corrected by changes and additions. I think we should make a whole new law here. We know in what circumstances this law has been passed and I think it needs to be changed. Here, when some members of the VSTV are here, members, is there, insignificant, I want to ask a question – what about Pandora's case? It's one of the key items and I think it's the right place here to ask a question. The weight of the case is one or more billion marks of crime and corruption, and it's not called a waste of Pandora, so if it was resolved, the Pandora's box would open. In what I've read, and probably most of you, the bosses of today's parties, all and one, are involved in this affair, name and last name. All of a sudden, it's gone somewhere, it's been withdrawn, it's actually nowhere. And this, here's one that completely disagrees with counterpart Lovrinović. I think it's up to the councilman's conscience to vote on the law, so we can put this under control. No, it's not the power center of these people that the people chose, it's not the VSTV center, it's the power centre of the political parties. Sad or true. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't know what club could vote against the president of its party. In the Central Bosnian Canton, there is a judge, the president of a municipal court, when asked how you hired your son, he only finished economic college, and the children have an average of over 9, waiting for a few years of work, he says – I gave the minister 10,000 marks. And look, the man who's sending it all to VSTV gets the answer that he's not authorized to record. So punish him because he's not authorized to record, let him carry sanctions, but give this woman who does. So, it's gonna be a long time before we change this law here, and without it, it's never gonna come, whoever's boss, whether or not this VSTV is gonna make it simple. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina don't know what reasons in the judiciary and the D.A.'s office we're running wood theft as an economic crime. In fact, you know what it's like to run it. Well, simply because you need to meet that part of the norm and prosecutors and judges say -- we have that much of a processed economic crime. I'll believe in this country when the VSTV president is arrested if he's guilty. Why didn't he come? Well, because man was recorded in corrupt acts. Well, he's probably embarrassed to get here in front of us. I don't know what other reason it would be. And who's authorized and who's allowed to file criminal charges, who's allowed to prosecute the VSTV president? Apparently no one needs to come here, to get justice, uh, to anyone. My hope in all of this is that everything will be better when a chapter on the accession of the European Union, on crime and corruption is opened. And the question of why this chapter is not being opened is precisely the force of the executive and judicial authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If that were to be opened, many judges and prosecutors, and perhaps party presidents and those centres of power, would be prosecuted. I would like to remind you, in neighbouring Croatia after the accession of the European Union, when the main tycoons that were next to the president of the late Franjo Tuđman are now hiding in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Prime Minister of the government, Mr. Sanader, has been arrested, and now there's a system of connected vessels, those who need to open the chapter, they won't because they're protecting these in the judiciary, and those in the judiciary won't process them, and that's one closed system, and I mean without helping the international community make it difficult for me, and pressure on these centres of power, that we can hardly get to a new quality law. Here, this committee that we have formed and the representatives of the International Community have stood behind it, we are not going to the extent of the verdict, but to examine the situation in the judiciary. But it's blocked. From who? Here, my colleague Borenović spoke, so from the College, from the leadership, from most and again we come to the same. Again, they guard one another, and the old people, the crow of crows, do not take their eyes out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4435	Thank you. Dear Representative Borenović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4436	Thank you. Here, and I agree with those colleagues who say that Parliament has the power and should be a place where there must be no prohibitions, no secrets, and that it is in Parliament that everyone should be treated equally and that all topics can be spoken freely and openly. We've been chosen by someone and it's our duty and our duty and our right to speak freely about all the anomalies in society. The situation in the judiciary is, I think, a unique grade, 62 catastrophic. I agree that judicial reform has experienced its failure and that something serious needs to be done to restore confidence in these key institutions in which citizens should have both protection and security. And that is why it is quite a logical question – why did we at least not fulfill those obligations that we created for ourselves? Why isn't an investigative committee in place? Believe that this body, as much as it may seem to someone at that point, a group of MPs who will be proposed, will be powerless, will have the strength and will have the power to do significant things when it comes to carrying out these actions that should be examined by the judicial institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I know from personal experience how much power that has. Last year, in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, we had a survey committee that worked for 30 days, I was part of it, and I saw for the first time what parliamentary power means, which means the power of MPs who can reach both those topics and those people who are untouchable or at least seem untouchable, and that some large, life-long, human things move for dead spots. Believe me, it has power, and it needs to be insisted on that, and I'm asking you, today, on the day we get to that point on the agenda, I'm going to suggest that this ends within 10 days, the conclusion that we adopted half a year ago. What I especially want to say here is that I also have a commitment to people who, during their human destiny and during certain judicial processes, have seen how ruthless the system is and how badly this is a legal solution that we have that we can fix. In addition to the assessment that the situation is as it is, apart from knowing that individuals in the judicial system significantly abuse their positions that and that part of the honorable, honest, correct professionals turn aside and let it go. Everything goes wrong on the surface, I think it's our obligation to propose some solutions that can significantly improve the state we live in. In my experience, I realized that really the biggest problem of the judicial system is that everything is in the hands of individuals who have been given enormous powers and their decisions depends on everything, primarily on prosecutors, primarily on the public prosecutor's office and on their power. And so I will be prepared to even suggest, perhaps more concrete solutions that I hope could find its place in some legal solution that would correct these anomalies. The rule of law through normisation or the adoption of quality legal standards implies the adoption of quality and enforceable laws, which is a fact, and should be one of the priorities of this Parliament, whoever proposed them, whether the Council of Ministers, whether an MP, a group of MPs should be a key priority. Of course, there are often dilemmas in the public whether the laws apply properly or whether the laws are good enough, or whether they are good enough. For the sake of the legal certainty of natural persons, i.e. citizens, such a dilemma should not exist, but there is, because it is necessary that precisely for the sake of good and quality laws these laws apply in the way they should. For the sake of the legal certainty of natural persons, i.e. citizens should be allowed to make it possible for each person, in addition to a judicial sphere that is dominant, and they can participate in their legal interest, citizen, human, natural person. It should go with suggestions on how citizens, i.e. natural persons, can contribute to their safety in criminal proceedings. According to the current decisions, the legal fate of the citizens is fully in the hands of the prosecutors, i.e. the prosecution, in full, and if a natural person or citizen submits an application for a criminal offence to the Tužilašte, they will also consider the outcome of the notification, to submit a notice. Of course, if the prosecutor's application is not satisfied, he has the possibility to file a complaint within eight days of the prosecutor's office, means the same people, and it all ends inside the prosecution and that's the end of the matter. The new normation or change of norms in criminal proceedings brings about justice in a way that is not entirely in the hands of prosecutors, because now any facts and evidence that the applicant has the application cannot achieve anything himself because we have legally normised situations that, to determine the truth and justice, are more crucial than the facts and evidence held by the applicant. In order to avoid getting to the truth and justice, it depends solely on 63 prosecutors, or prosecution proceedings, and not on the necessary facts and evidence, the need to amend the criminal process and regulation in this section is imposed. We propose amendments to the first that would make it more possible for facts and evidence to come to the truth and justice, secondly, to enable natural persons, i.e. citizens, to participate in the judicial process and to come to the truth and justice. If citizens possess facts and evidence, and the prosecutor to whom the delivery is not initiated, or give up on it, then a legal possibility should be created, then a legal possibility should be created for the applicant to report a criminal offence on the basis of facts and evidence he has committed to the courts. That, of course, was before this judicial reform. Therefore, the determination and arrival of truth and justice on the basis of facts and evidence depends no longer on the prosecution's actions, i.e. the will of prosecutors, but also on citizens based on the facts and evidence they have at their disposal. In that sense, I am prepared to suggest and one conclusion in the sea of conclusions that we have adopted and we have already decided to prepare a legal solution, that the chief prosecutor is elected here in Parliament two-thirds, you know that we did so at the June session. I would suggest a conclusion which would be in charge of the Council of Ministers that due to the disastrous consequences of the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina which are primarily caused by the ineffectiveness of the work of public prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible, legal solutions will be referred to the parliamentary procedure, which will primarily refer to the return of a subsidiary prosecutor's institute to our positive legislation and that the holders of judicial functions are made responsible for the abuse of official duties that some colleagues have spoken of. I think it would be the most logical to do so by the Council of Ministers, yes, we all know what the need is, if the Council of Ministers does not do so, we are willing to do so and to propose certain solutions to make it look concrete, what are the deadlines that bind the prosecutor to make certain decisions on the conduct or non-response of investigative actions, that, after a certain period of time, it is possible for citizens to continue to pursue criminal prosecution, due to some facts and evidence that are what they are and give the opportunity to, in addition to the prosecution decision which ignored the facts and evidence, go to the courts and achieve their fundamental human right, to come to justice, to come to the truth. And that is why we, and when we entered this House, have said one of the three key priorities of the Party of Democratic Progress, and I believe that the majority of distinguished colleagues are both truth and justice for all. and I am convinced that Parliament has in this sense A significant role, there are great opportunities that we do not use in the right way. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4437	Thank you. Dear Representative Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4438	A colleague, Zlatan Begić, described in a rather rough way the current position of Parliament when he said that these all our conclusions and what we are doing is hanging the cat on the tail. But the frustration that Parliament has from relations by the Council of Ministers, which often ennorns Parliament, and then also from institutions such as, above all, both the VSTV and the judicial institutions that act like you can't do anything, we can come to us, we don't have to come, we can respect you, your conclusions are like this and so on. It is very annoying for me, and be some spite, and all those who think that MPs can't do anything and that they don't need to write laws, that they don't need to change them are actually on the side of those who are fighting for the status quo, they won't propose the Council of Ministers, they won't propose VSTV, but neither will you, and it won't be like this, until, like, a hundred years. 64 I wanted to react to this, my colleague, as you said, and you're right, especially when it comes to this VSTV. The Patria news agency has released information that the VSTV chairman, while we are discussing this, is on vacation in Zanzibar. They published pictures, which they didn't paint, but the man posted on his Fejsbuk, the man under the palm tree, on the beach, while we want to have his presence here to ask what about the Memić case, which is the most obvious example of corruption, and perhaps political abuses in the judiciary, what about the Dragičević case, what about numerous cases, what about prosecutors whose convictions are falling, and they are being promoted. So, at that time man On Facebook, he announces to us all the greetings from the beach, except he wrote below – you are fired. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, that's, now that I'm saying this, it's not Tegeltija, it's for ourselves to imagine a little while we, as Parliament, are going to allow the most legislative body of this state to be that way. If any effect of it is in that direction, I'm satisfied, but we really need to keep our names and our last names and our jobs that we do, because this has crossed all the boundaries. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4439	Dear Representative Dragan Mektić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4440	Thank you, Chairman. You know how, I won't mind, but I really think that we've overestimated ourselves here, that we've come up with something, like we're something, we're smart around here, we're exhausted, and we're running some politics and we're running some processes and we're making decisions, don't mind me, and I think that's one stupid thing that's most common in these relationships and in the consolidation of these relationships that we're working in, and Saša Magazinović is now talking, uh, about these things. I have been in the Council of Ministers for five years as Ministers and I know how many times Parliament has concluded and obliged the Council of Ministers to do, to make a new law on VSTV, to offer here and deliver it to Parliament, but that's why my colleague Emrić, I think that the cat on the tail can go, to some old macho, to be hung up and that this conclusion on this, to the investigation committee of the plum has gone, who knows, maybe even in the Black Sea is down there now. So I don't have, I don't address myself, I don't have any need for you to listen to me seriously or carefully, I only use this opportunity because they have cameras here, so I have some obligation, and I figure in some way at least part of what I say will come into the media, come out in public, and that really about us here in Parliament, people who have been elected, in direct elections, there's real knowledge of who we are, what we are and how we do and what we do, and we don't do anything, we beat empty straw, nothing. That's why I don't and I don't feel particularly exalted to be a member of this House, sometimes I hide it, shame on me. So I speak to ordinary people. Are you, uh, in Parliament up there, what do you do, what will it be, will we be better, how will it be? I don't know what's gonna happen. I don't know what's gonna happen. I don't know what's gonna happen. I don't know what's gonna happen. I am for the independent judiciary and the heart and the soul and all the capacities that we do not have here in this House, we need to protect the independent judiciary. I'd get up first, and here I'd be against it if someone in any way interfered with some object. But people, here's not gonna get angry with Mr. Lovrenović, this, when he was talking, so say tell me what's the problem specifically and this etc. Well, here you are, right now... the Pandora problem. So I remember when the BiH Prosecutor's Office was pompously announcing this is an affair of the century in BiH, two billion converting marks of damage done in a way that was alienated from public money from citizens, operated citizens. I'm 65 the political top complete there's no political party out of and out of where there's no people involved, so when we saw the third day of the main suspect's statement on the 20th page and his statement, we could read it on the Internet, and then it was hung on the tail of the cat, too. All those mentioned there have seen what is put on their burden and who puts it on them, etc. etc. That's why we need to have around here both cats and cats, around here somewhere, not a problem, here... that's about tail one by one and that's how we deal with a situation, some problems, is there no bread, croissants, bread, whatever you want, as our people say. We crush this people, we drive this people crazy, we put this people in a position to swallow more antidepressants and children swallow. It's all crazy in here, nobody's normal in here. And what is the cause of all this, this situation? No justice, no rule of law, no justice systems. And while some, therefore, I was talking about an independent judiciary, don't, some will think that I'm particularly motivated because the prosecution before, I don't know, 15 days against me has filed charges against me. But it's not a problem that brought the indictment against me, but the problem that day morning at 9:00 P.M. Mate Đaković enters the cafe in Tuzla, and people say – today the indictment against Mektić. And I go public in the media and I say, this man said I'm gonna be a witness and tell me where, where and this... So as Mate Đaković knows, this one, that I will be charged with, and in the same afternoon, for God's sakes, all the media are picking up the indictments and RTRS, that great RTRS guy who, like, should never have done anything, published it first, but because he's the chief prosecutor and Mate Đaković's cousins. In particular, I remember, when we had the last Constitutional Commission, Mrs. Čolo, you're the chairman of the Commission, so we tried to discuss something about this report, and then we said that we were again like Parliament, to be nothing, to be worse than Parliament, to say, please don't talk about anything, we're establishing a constitutional basis here and the story is over, don't. But here's a little bit of talk, and as I recall, that I suggested one conclusion, and that you said that the Commission would propose it to Parliament, so let's see for the corrupt prosecutors how much damage it was done to this country, just because they unfoundedly and illegally deprived people of their freedoms, how much compensation this country has paid because of people being held in custody, how many states and citizens have gone from the back of citizens and paid money for the ruling of the BiH Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for their unreasonablely long actions. For five years, six years he's held onto drawers, etc. and the one who was first accused in Pandora will get a verdict at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg because he has been prosecuted unreasonablely for a long time and the State has issued a invoice from the European Court of Human Rights. And we're now saying, what do we have to talk about here... so come on, I'm suggesting a conclusion, let the Ministry of Finance, maybe I don't know, can you? Who else can give us that information, let us see who's after the prosecution's stupidity, how much this money's gone, people's money like [[the speaker is warned on time]] And let me just say and finish, I apologize, so it doesn't mean anything to us that for years in its progress reports, the European Commission has been talking about the non-functional judiciary in BiH and the corrupt judiciary. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So we don't care what the State Department and the U.S. Government report says we have an inefficient and corrupt judicial system. So it means nothing to us that the Special Envoy of the European Union is Rajhard Pribe He wrote a report the way he is. [[the speaker is warned on time]] What more do we want? What arguments do we need here? [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4441	Okay, thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4442	That's why we're a hollow story here and I'm the same, I didn't break anything up from you, but here's the good pay.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4443	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4444	It's a godsend.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4445	Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4446	Thank you. So, the correction of Mr. Mektić's false hope, I'm not Lovrenović, I'm Lovirnović. That's why I got up, but also because of something else. So this is exactly how you said it, and you said it yourself, if it wasn't a camera, you wouldn't even be talking, and you were in a position for five years to report this, that you were doing this, that you were creating this, that you were stopping this, that you were a minister, that you were in the Council of Ministers, and now you're a representative. So give it for the cameras, I mean, that you've been a minister, that you've had time for five years to propose these laws and report people who make crime and Pandora and not Pandora and don't talk about cats and cats, and now you're, because of that, you're in opposition, but now the elections are far away, wait for a little election, and then when the new elections are new, tell the people that they like you, about the wages, about the lack of Parliament, you have the right to say... whatever you want to say, you and me and everyone else. But come on, be a little consistent, what you're saying is all of the media stories. Well, you've been telling us about the migration that we know more from the media than we know from you is still no longer a point of the agenda. So, you said right and I'm talking to the cameras, you told the people all right, you've been a minister for five years, now you're talking about what you had to do, and now you're gonna do as a representative what you should, I hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4447	Thank you. Dear Representative Enver Bijedić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4448	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So about this topic seems to be very interesting and everyone has their own vision on this subject, because each one in some way felt on his back or was an eyewitness to the injustice that was happening by the judicial authorities. My proposal would be to sublime two proposals, which is how to get out of this if we were to get high, and that's the first thing that my colleague Mirjana Lepić suggested is to hold a thematic session on justice, not just on the VSTV that gentlemen from the VSTV came here. At this thematic session, we should reach the mechanisms proposed by Prof. Dr. Zlatan Begić, and otherwise they're both together as I am Tuzlac, I think you know who rules this matter. And, uh, that way we'd get out of this problem very elegantly, this is how 67 of us can discuss it by tomorrow morning, probably not come to a concrete conclusion, a thematic session where we're going to have mechanisms like we suggested. I will give an example, too, of the abnormal conditions in which this public discourse is taking place between the judiciary and the legislative authority and, of course, individuals. There is no country in the world in which a press conference would be held to publicly state charges against the court-holders, the prosecutor in particular, where certain things are indicated, is evidence of the prosecutor's corruption, the prosecutor in the Tuzla canton, and that no one is responding. So, if it comes out at a press conference and all the media are passing it on, that this prosecutor is connected to politics, that his daughter is employed without a competition, that while I was Minister of the Federation's Government, he's asked me to hire his wife for a permanent working relationship at BH Telekom and when I didn't agree to it, then he said he'd shut down all BH Telekom base stations, etc. And that no one responds to such accusations. In my opinion, from such a press conference, I think I'm a very relevant person for such things, someone has to answer or I'll answer for what I lied about, that it's not true, or someone's gonna call that prosecutor and question whether they're correct. Which is the institution to do this, whether it is the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor, VSTV certainly is not, of course, VSTV is not involved in the team, but if it is stated at the press conference that, for example, the particular prosecutor took 24 personal incomes, left the Army of BiH without the possibility of employment in some public institution, he is then employed in the municipality of Tuzla, and became a prosecutor, etc. What's wrong with all those rights and norms that one law enforcement officer should have. So, apart from these proposals to unite Mirjanin and Zlatanovo, which will come to something concrete, it is also very interesting to expose Mr. Borenović and I fully agree, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina no one can do anything, they can do anything, and they do not respond to anyone. What kind of system is that, what kind of mechanisms are these, how is that done? I don't want to say that it's just political influence, at any level or any other environment, but it's possible so much authority that someone has, and that doesn't account for anyone, it's a little inappropriate. So, the proposal is Mirjana's thematic session to come to Zlatan's conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4449	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs on this agenda. Moving on, point 15. Ad. 15. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-50-19-2568/18 since 27.11.2018 The committee responsible for examining that report was ustavnopravni, the Commission submitted its opinion, the report was adopted and further procedure was proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. I'm opening a debate on this report. There are no reports. Thank you. 68 Moving forward, point 16. Ad. 16. Special report on the appearance, use and protection of state, or official features in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01-50-19-49/19 of 03.01.2019
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4453	In the Defence Report, we have a partial answer to Mr. Mektić's question, where it is said that in 2018 the total value of the case is, meaning, which are not resolved in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina 2,143,104,00 KM, which is five million less than in 2017. Which means we can view it as a success of the D.A.'s, and that 80% of those assets are 2 million and a hundred, so it's gone to three types of disputes. Work-law disputes over outstanding compensations of a warm meal, transport, regression and separate life to judges, prosecutors and other judicial staff at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, damages to the name of the damage due to unfounded deprivation of freedom and labour disputes led against the Ministry of Defence in connection with formal acts and deployment. So this is just here on the way that we can get a picture of how much money has gone in 2018 for these purposes. 69 And I would refer here, when it comes to the report, to some of the things that we are obliged as Parliament to do, and also to the Council of Ministers. The amendments to the Law on the Prosecution are prescribed the possibility of conducting a peaceful dispute settlement procedure before the BiH Ombudsman as a procedure that would precede a lawsuit against Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions. This would therefore make it easier for the pravobranilaštvo General and the reduced costs of conducting the procedure in the event of a peaceful dispute settlement. However, the law did not follow the amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure by adopting a rule on criteria and procedure to regulate rules for the peaceful settlement of disputes and the conclusion of a settlement before the appeal is brought to the court. So, this regulation has not yet been passed, and amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure were in 2016. So, I assume this is the obligation of the Ministry of Justice and to adopt a sublegal act, and therefore I urge this to finally be passed after three years by following an implementing regulation that will facilitate the conduct of disputes. Also, this amendment to the Law on Prosecution did not follow the amendment of the Law on the Defence, which is, therefore, an obligation for us as bodies that adopt amendments to the law, and therefore the obligation of the Council of Ministers to finally propose after three years of amending the Law on the Defence which will follow the amendments to the Law on the Prosecution. It is also evident that the large amount of damage, i.e. the large amount relating to lost disputes, are disputes relating to compensations for the name of a warm meal, transport, regression and separate life. So, in which the prosecutors were judges and prosecutors of the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, the pravobranilaštvo's office has stated in its report that it has repeatedly warned the competent institutions, and above all the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the need to adopt a new Law on Payments and Refunds of persons employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions, so that this issue is systemically resolved, and this is also required by the above-mentioned decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. So this is, again, the Council of Ministers' obligation and then the obligation of us as MPs of this House to pass the law in question. And what I still consider mandatory and necessary to mention is, of course, the unresolved issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state property, especially in the Republic of Croatia and the adoption of a new law in the Republic of Croatia, this property is, therefore, put in some way, in danger, i.e. the possibility of renting. And I hope, then, that the Foreign Ministry will finally try to solve this long-term problem and will take all the necessary measures to bring a bilateral agreement that would solve this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4454	Thank you. Honorable representative Čolo, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4455	It's istin what Mr. Mektić said, that he proposed on the Constitutional Legal Commission to draw this conclusion, but when we were reviewing the Attorney's Office's work report, it means now the report on the agenda. With what I see now, he has proposed a conclusion, in this conclusion the Constitutional Commission lacks more – according to the Constitutional Court of BiH's rulings, because there are a lot of rulings of the Constitutional Court of BiH relating to the violation of Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights for the trial in, uh, a period that is not reasonable in accordance with the European Convention. So if it is possible to reconcile these two things, its conclusion and this Constitutional Legal Commission, to only be added before the European Court of Human Rights – behind 70 rulings by the Constitutional Court of BiH and the European Court of Human Rights. And that's what Mr. Mektić asked for, and I can go two conclusions parallelly, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4456	Okay, thank you. We don't have any more logs. Moving to the next item on the agenda, number 18. Ad. 18. Report on the implementation of the General Elections 2018 and the report on the implementation of the BiH Central Election Commission's law in 2018, applicant: Central Election Commission BiH, issue: 01,02-50-18-1741/19 of 02.10.19 The College of the House has designated the Constitutional Legal Commission as competent to consider this Report. The Commission has delivered its opinion, adopted the report and proposes to continue the procedure in accordance with the Dom's Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Representative Nikšić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4458	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'd say another report that is there form works, but certainly like the other MPs, I think it's very important and that there's something to say when this... It is no secret that the election process in Bosnia and Herzegovina is further compromised and that irregularities take place with support and cover the Central Election Commission. Just to remind ourselves, under the cover of the alleged lack of training for members of the electoral committees of people who are not even invited to train or receive a call after training has already passed, after the time when they were due to respond, are eliminated from the membership of the election committees such as whether, one part of the non-recorded members of the electoral committees. The second part of the non-matched is eliminated because some with primary or secondary school are satisfied, and the highly educated are not satisfied with training for a member of the election board. What they would say in that one ad, completely natural... is that it needs to be complicated and should know how to attract ballots for those who don't show up at the polling station, how to vote for the dead, and it's a particularly complicated training for a brilliant solution to all the problems they've come up with in the CEC using pencils in two colors. Because it's supposed to eliminate a large number of invalid ballots. And as it seems, this brilliant solution in practice is seen by the fact that for the members of the BiH presidency, there were about 110 thousand ballots, of which in the Federation 70, 40,000 in Republika Srpska. And when you add to that other levels, almost half a million invalid ballots come. If, by some miracle, these unsuitable members of the electoral committees get through these first two rounds of purgatory, then they're suddenly flat-out, as if they're on schedule, just everybody gives up the night before the election. So in election silence, the CEC approves local electoral commissions to change the 6.5 thousand members of the election board who then wait as stuck-up rifles only to have someone call them to come and be members of the election election committee. In that people's way, when the Kadiya sues you, you are judged, and those who commit electoral theft are no longer hidden, they say, 'You complain.' You complain, those in the local election commission decide on 71 reject the appeal, get to the CEC that covers it all, and that's where it all ends up as a circle. By playing with statistics and bureaucratic forms of reporting irregularities, the CEC constantly disabling institutions and citizens, it is visible from these reports that we have here, where the most cruel violations of the rules and laws such as the "Bulgarian train", voting for others, abuses of personal documents, are mainly based on single-digit numbers, extremely somewhere in a dozen cases, and I am sure that each of us in this hall can now list at least a hundred examples of violations and irregularities in the election process. The Central Election Commission's favorite explanation, even when it faces and must admit that there has been some irregularities on the election board, is that it is, but it does not affect the final election result. So, according to them, you have to determine in all places or at least 50% of places that there were irregularities, in order to affect the election result. If it were so best seen from the report on the update of data on deceased persons, which is stated in 137. Chapter Report, because it says that these data are delivered by the mayor, or mayor, of election committees in the primary constituency, and that, I quote, the deadline delivered to 106 municipalities provided the requested data, from 37 municipalities the requested data was not delivered at all, and they were given the opportunity to deliver the data by 28.03.2018, and 11 electoral commissions did not supply the requested data again until the deadline. And you can imagine, 65 electoral commissions have not provided data on the taking of legal actions designed to erase the dead from the Central Election List. Normally, it did not bother the CEC to hold elections and ultimately why anyone would then update the data or delete the deceased, when those who conduct the elections are not trying to determine their truthfulness. In particular, I would like to remind myself of the harsh violation of the law by the CEC when it comes to the representativeness and legitimacy of the representatives of the Serbian people, guaranteed by the Constitution, and thus by all other acts. First, during the term of office, Mr opsenica, who personally informed the public that he had failed to meet, did not sign a statement stating that he was a Srbin, which is CEC, which has no meaning for the CEC, and his statement and now you can find it on the internet, because it is the most famous, with the date 01.11.2018. Secondly, in the case of the allocation of non-existent mandates from the compensation list where the Constitution guarantees that at least four members of one constituent nation must be represented in the House of Representatives of the Federation Parliament. The electoral law clearly states that all persons on the regular lists can be placed on the compensation list of the political entity for that level of government, but that the compensation mandate can only be granted to candidates on the certified compensation list. Even after the BiH Court of Justice observed the SDP appeal, the CEC has knowingly violated a provision that clearly provides – that if each of the constituent peoples does not win a minimum number of four mandates, the subsequent compensation mandate shall be granted to the candidate of the relevant people from the compensation list of political parties who have won the largest number of votes and who has qualified candidates in the ranks of the relevant constituent people. Thus, most CEC members fully derivated and, as an institution, showed that from the election cycle, to the election cycle, they change the rules and adapt them to the needs of their sponsors, putting themselves not only above the court, but also above the Constitution and the law. This course culminated in the adoption of the CEC Manual, which gave up the principle of applying the '91 census. in the years, and made some artificial mix by changing the number of delegates from individual cantons, which practically placed themselves on the side of those who advocate anti-civilization values. Here we had earlier on, that we said that we were hoping that there would be an independent judiciary, I sincerely hope that if not today, then there will be those in the judicial institutions who will completely independently examine the work of individual members of the CEC. It is clear that for those who do not want to edit the electoral process, for those who do abuse or cover those who are doing abuses, the introduction of more advanced voting technologies, the registration of voters, and the scan of ballots is not desirable. We have proposed the law in the last term and we will propose it 72 again, because we believe that this election procedure, as well as any previous one, has been compromised at the very least. What is particularly striking is that these promotions did not receive support from the CEC either, all of which were adjudicated by the already mentioned introduction of pencils into two colors. Here's just one example, while you're reading this report you have a whole little chapter on the Main Centre for Counting and Praise about how they significantly improved by introducing the same thing through the pilot project in 2018, believe it or not, video surveillance. Of course, that didn't go smoothly either, because you might think they didn't have anywhere to store the footage from that video surveillance, which clearly says in this report. But that's why there's not a word about what's public secret, that the bags that have been opened for any reason at the Main Count Center for checking the results, and absolutely all had a deviation, the condition in the bag of the logs that was on that bag. That, of course, does not stand in this report that speaks of the work of the Central Centre. It is interesting that both reports in the Chapter on the protection of the electoral right specifically singled out the Coalition "Under the Glass", which they did, it seems to me, primarily, that this group of well-intentioned organisations, which already have several electoral processes objectively oversee the electoral process, appear to be undermining. They probably don't answer either, because they've turned their attention to what they say in the CEC, to 446, under quotes, critical situations. And so those in the CEC don't know what these situations are, because that term doesn't know, this one as a critical situation. So, instead of boasting about the introduction of technique, such as the introduction of biometric fingerprint readers, optical ballot scanners and surveillance cameras in all the polling stations, which is in the proposal I was just talking about, the CEC report praised that we were from 1990 to 2018. provide a donation for the purchase of transparent ballot boxes, an affair. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So here, after the time is out, I will just end up, that I sincerely hope that in this House there will be a necessary majority of MPs and MPs who will make sure that the CEC no longer remains in this composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4459	Dear Representative Borenović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4460	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow Members, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished, no more members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. Well, here's another subject that we know less about, which we both know about, and direct participants in the election process, people in the Central Election Commission and those who deal with the elections are partly regular to totally irregular. The election process as never before has shown an absurd situation in which we are in, and therefore there is no need to wonder why the government has formed for a year, why we have the Minister's Council, why we have this constant latent purchase, trade and mandates and functions, and chairs and positions, and this is all the result of the election process because this ambience and this general corruption that we are essentially in is starting and getting its foothold in the election process. A lot of irregularities and many of these irregularities are listed in this report, it's completely evident. And when you take the indicators, when you read, when you compare the data, you see that the election process is full of manipulation, especially when you read the OSCE Office Report on Democratic Institutions, human rights, where a lot of it is stated, and even the instructions are how public service abuses are done, how individual candidates acted in the pre-election campaign, how they were publicly promised to receive compensation if they voted exclusively for a political party, how they publicly crashed on workers in public enterprises that 73 would be fired if they did not vote exclusively for one political option and that I do not specify numerous and numerous examples. But also the moment these election results come in the way they come in, it's enough to look at them and see some illogicalities that are so visible that it's amazing that, it's also my remark, that the Central Election Commission has not taken certain activities under official duty. We talked a lot about it when we talked about the election process, we talked about some cities where it's amazing that a number of candidates were getting 100% personal votes, and not just at one polling spot, but at, say, 80% of the polling stations in one local environment. We know an example of Zvornik where out of 80 polling stations, at 60 polling stations a number of candidates received 99 or 100% personal votes. We know that a large number of invalid ballots is a significant problem, we know that whenever a bag is opened and tries to compare this report, that is, the record with the state in one polling place to always be a deviation, there is always a deviation that shows that sometimes I want to understand, but I can't understand why this one step and try to get into that election process, essentially, and see what things are indicators and what the real state is. I'm trying to understand sometimes people on the Central Election Commission that they know if they open that Pandora's box that then everything will literally explode and show senselessness of the election process and completely question everything we do, and that it's best to let the time pass. The fact that some political parties are objecting is, of course, legally rejected in a certain way. The question arises why and file more complaints in the way we do it, because we know what will be the epilogue of all these strong objections. Here is the essential decision on us here, in the BiH Parliament, whether we are going to change this situation or prepare for each of the next elections in the way that it now looks legalized, shopping, threat, blackmail, robbery, theft, correspondence and all those actions that are in normal society for conviction, for punishment, becomes a model of conduct, rule, principle of work, because if people stay this way, they will not even enter the campaign, but will have a finished product that will buy after the election. To buy, who at the market, three, four councillors, when local elections are cheaper is a man, when these general elections are likely to be more expensive and you have serious thoughts of people who say that you should no longer invest in flyers, or in programs, or ideologies, or in communication, but you need to find two, three, powerful, strong men with a deep pocket and then wait for the results of the election, see who went through and then look for, make your own, three, four MPs who decide in the local community who will be counterweighted and then you have a fully legalized system that is abnormal. Let people really stop tolerating some behaviors that are so evident that we all know about, we all know, let's try to come up with some solution, some compromise that if we're really worth some people's worth -- you're worth 10%, you have 10% of the votes, you're worth 20%, congratulations, victory, you move on. In Croatia, in Serbia it can be the result within an hour, which is the problem of introducing a scan of ballots if there is already a technology that is applicable in many countries. In Brazil, in 10 minutes, they have an election result, we wait for a little more correction overnight, during the night, and we'll see what we can do. Let's try more to really come up with a solution, to overcome this situation that we're talking about so much. And as far as the Party of Democratic Progress is concerned, it is my duty to repeat the things that we will insist on and which we consider to be a good way to make the Election Law and to make the election process fair and fair. We think that it is necessary to draft and adopt a whole new electoral law, that any changes don't make any more sense, that it is necessary to make an effort to, while requiring and modifying the constitution, to include this institute of extraordinary elections, some possibility to resolve this issue that we have had in the last year when it comes to forming authorities at the level of joint institutions. I think it would be very important and a good step both in Bosnia and Herzegovina to introduce two rounds of elections for all direct political races in the majority system of elections, as we have, here we have seen in the elections in 74 Croatia, and at local and republican level, means two rounds in the majority system of elections that we need to consider uniting the general and local elections in the same year, but perhaps not the same day, that we need to consider increasing the electoral censorship, increase it to 4 or 5%, shorten the election period, we think that it is too long for the entire election period to last, we know what the experiences in the environment are, in Croatia it is 40 days, in Serbia 50, in Montenegro 75 days, try to question the electoral boards to reduce that trade more and that the right in the electoral board and the election board have only those parliamentary political entities at that level. If the local elections, the one in that city, are parliamentary, he has the right to members of the electoral committee, not to trade and to make political entities that are only because of membership in election committees. I think it is crucial to introduce new technologies and to reduce in many ways electoral corruption, electoral irregularities, manipulation and that scanning ballots could be an optimal solution for Bosnia and Herzegovina, for our electoral legislation. We can introduce mandatory voter markings to those receptions as we had a few, maybe 10, 15 years ago, and what would be good in case we didn't go with new technologies if possible, and it could be a good solution to introduce the possibility of municipal voting centres, that in one place all voices are counted, and not there by some, I don't know, the environments where these manipulations that are well known to all of us are made very easily. If we don't do it, and if we don't pass a new election law, which all these things we talk about a lot, I have a feeling that the election process itself will be so pointless and will question legitimacy, legality and the simple political existence of subjects after such electoral irregularities and processes that are more and more taking place. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4461	Thank you very much. Just one general, as we say, correcting the wrong allegations since we all swore here that we would honor the Constitution. Today, I have noticed several times, and even now in the discussion of the respected representative Borenović, that an anti-constitutional term is being used – the joint institutions. There is no name in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina - a common institution, there is only a name - the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask you to use this name in this largest legislative body – the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not at all – common institutions. Mr. Borenović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4462	Well, I'm a little surprised that for the first time here someone is suggesting to the MPs what they're going to say and what expression they're going to use. I really don't see why it is controversial to speak to the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't see a problem with such findings and attitudes at all. If you're going to start having problems with the way MPs exhibit, they say, it leads us to a totalitarian regime completely. If it's an insult, it's problematic, what are we using for a term -- joint institutions, so whose institutions are these? Well, Mr. Zvizdić, these are the institutions of both your and ours, and these are the institutions, the institutions of the people who chose us. Isn't community the strongest sentence, word, and something that brings us together to insist on? If we don't have a community in this House, then I don't know what, what are we talking about? For me, these are the common institutions of this country and the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers and every other institution because it should be a reflection of that community where you and I are, and 75 of us sitting not only in this House, but in many places, and there are several tens of thousands. I'm not sure what that intention was for you. I will always defend community the way I feel, how I see it, and how I want it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4463	These are the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which the elected people are sitting together. I am also very unpleasantly surprised that you use the term, anti-constitutional expression – joint institutions. Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4464	Well, it has long been said in this House that common institutions are not a term that is in line with the original version of the BiH Constitution, which is in English and no member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions in that English version are called common institutions. That would mean the same as if I told the Bosnia and Herzegovina government about the Council of Ministers, you certainly wouldn't like it. If the Prime Minister's Presidency were told by the prime minister, while Mr. Zvizdić, then you might like it because it comes from Republika Srpska, so we must call the institutions the name they were called in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4465	Representative Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4466	So now I'm really not surprised anymore why this is the situation in the judiciary, why this situation is in the electoral process, why people go to us, why corruption is ruled by anarchy. In addition to so many problems in this country, serious, living, human, for you the biggest problem is how and how an MP in this House who is common uses certain terms. Come on, open your eyes, see where we live. And you're making a problem about my position that I'll always stay behind, that these are joint institutions where we have to solve the problems of all the people who live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you put aside all the big problems of this country, and you're dealing with trivial things, things that take away energy, time and that make such a senseless vision that you're taking care of this country from which people leave, you're left empty shells. Let's turn to serious things, talk about electoral legislation, fraud, theft, corruption, manipulation, and all of this you have an objection to why I used the term – the joint BiH institutions. I'm, I have to tell you really, just now aware of the fact why the situation in this country is like this, because those key political entities that have significant capacity This country does not seem to be dealing with real problems but is constantly trying to survive in some quasi-political conflicts on a political scene. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4467	Agent Helez, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4468	The Honorable Chairman. 76 I agree that this is, so if you want both anti-Dayton and anti-constitutional this term, but I'm following you, you've never responded once, you've even voted. The chairman of the Council of Ministers has said the same thing at least 30 times to you and Mrs. Čolo not minded voting for that man, you probably had an order, then he said the same thing at least 30 times and a lot more demagogy. So, the agenda point, the Central Election Commission, the theft, the election robbery, here are the people who made hundreds of arguments, it's the central source of crime, and you just turn that demagogue, it's been repeated a thousand times, and I agree, here, I'm publicly saying it's anti-day, anti-constitutional, and you've found it now to say that you're covering all this up because in your basket is the good part that went to those stolen votes. And come on, please, let's get back to the agenda. If you want what's unconstitutional and what I've heard here today, what people have said unconstitutional and you haven't responded, let's open one thematic session and settle it forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4469	zastupnica Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4470	Well, actually, Mr. Chairman, I'm pretty embarrassed when I, who am not a lawyer, have to quote the provisions to the lawyers, but here, this time, I'll be very happy to do it. Namely, I quote - Article III, position (3) of the Constitution, I do not have it in English, I have it in Serbian where, in that sense, Article III position (3) point (b) of the quotation – entities and any of their subdivisions will fully comply with this Constitution, which is governed by all non-consistencies of the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the constitutions and laws of entities and with decisions of the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I'm not correcting the wrong allegations, I'm actually correcting your guilty allegations, that there are no joint institutions, I don't know what I read, this is the Constitution, and here I am using the opportunity to ask you all to come back together on the subject. By the way, since I've taken my word for it, I have to say this. So, this big discussion that we had about justice, I have a need to say, we added 2 and 2 as 5 and the whole process of establishing justice went wrong. Making a rule of law and making a rule of law on legal violence could never or will end well. Therefore, I really ask you to here you as chairman manage all of us, including, I don't know, and the government, and I don't know, the opposition, and the partners and those who used to be and who are in a way that we really stick to the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4471	...just stick to the Constitution. Alma Čolo, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4472	I have an English version in front of me, it's in this Constitution, in the end, what you've stated. It does not stand – common institutions, but just stands – institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are a legitimate term. 77 What my colleague Zukan Helez was saying, with this, that we are drawing attention from alleged illegalities in the election process, here I am from this place saying that I am in favour of scanning ballots, to introducing an electoral recording of each vote, and I will support it and, behold, I am ready to participate in a working group that will work on such an electoral law, immediately, if necessary today's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4473	Representative Mektić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4474	Thank you. It's pointless now, I don't know at all, I thought I'd give up when we talked about serious issues and serious things like that getting divorced in some lame way, and I could have left it for later, when we're done, so when we get to the second point of the agenda. Come on now, more or less, I don't know if I'm gonna be able to get anyone interested in this story right now because it's a little bit of an atmosphere, let me put it that way, different. The CEC report begins... The conclusion of the BiH Parliament, which is approximately – if more so, I am not already quoting, if more than 5% of the invalid ballots, will be repeated in the election post. Mr Emrić, this is the conclusion of the BiH Parliament, the cat about the tail gone, went to the cat on the tail.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4475	You got them all interested right away, let's go, let's go back to...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4476	I'm saying now, that if someone was controversial in the legal sense this conclusion, then we have this service that needs to follow, warn, that we're making illegal conclusions or we can beat whatever we want here, uh, and I don't know, and then translate it into conclusions. Someone contests it from one side, but on the other, some go deaf, but mostly the cat goes on the tail and there's no such thing... I think that after problems with the rule of law, the rule of law here in this country is just as much a problem and the conduct of these elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Borenović said well, the question is more about whether and how to run the campaign. I was also president of the election headquarters, etc. during several last election cycles within my political party, the Serbian Democratic Party, in election headquarters, etc. And you know where we just focus, what? How to steal and how to prevent theft is based on all and key strategies. You can run whatever campaign you want, you can send whatever messages you want to the citizens and talk about whatever you want, but if you haven't stopped the theft, the cat about the tail, the cat about the tail. Well, it's common knowledge, and it's a well-known fact that everything based on that principle is based on stealing as much as you can and preventing it from being stolen, that the other side steals from you as little as possible. So he told Mr. Borenović what all the messages were sent during the election campaign, you won't get your pensions, you'll be fired from work, students say you go to colleges, it's not worth anything to you, it's not worth it to those young people. If you're not in this political party, you're out of business. So I quoted at a pre-election meeting in Gradišca a passage from a book, which was officially published, regarding World War II and the participation of our father by our president Željek Cvijanović in some forms there, quoted from the book, and I received a sentence from the CEC in three days, read the paragraph of one, which was officially published, no one challenged it, and here what you can tell students is free of school, free of colleges, take pictures with it, uh, it doesn't mean anything. So, however you want to have a dirty campaign, you can do whatever you want, if you're not a fan of the CEC, there's nothing. So what state are we, what 78 are we, a state and are we a country at all? I don't know if it's anti-Dayton or anti-constitutional... in 15 days, you don't know, uh, counting ballots and chasing bags. Well, I've been following the inventions in Croatia now, and it seems to me that they ended up at 7:00 p.m., and at 10:00 p.m., the story was almost over, and they know it all, congratulating each other. With us, you don't know sacks of noses, where noses come from all night to community election committees. I was present once in Banja Luka when they unloaded, and out of five bags everything was shaken up, and then they went back like that, and I called the police there, and I said, "Look what is done." They put up with it, the cop writes an official note, you complain, nothing. We had a situation that we were notifying, uh, even having a situation where we came up with counterfeit ballots, forged and not original ballots. Notified by the CEC and the competent authorities, the institutions, there's been an investigation, I don't know what's going on here, it's being questioned, but that doesn't mean anything to the CEC. We had a situation that we pointed to hundreds of irregularities during the election process and when you complain, uh, they answer us, says – you have to prove to us that there has been a mass irregularity. What is mass irregularity, how do they evaluate, on what basis do they evaluate? I claim that our choices are based on thefts and counterfeits and that means nothing to anyone, the CEC does not mean anything to anyone. So wait, what's controversial, and there were suggestions to re-introduce the electronic display of ballots and each ballot to be electronically obvious, stored in the database, and in 7 and 15 we have data. So who doesn't answer? Why isn't that appropriate? Whoever voted will have his ballot scanned, immediately sent to the database, counted and eventually completed the story. But he didn't give his positive opinion either, and I guess he's answering them to wear those bags, transfer them, and who knows everything, and now we've heard Mr. Nikšić speak, I don't know, epochal achievement, says we've set up video surveillance. So what he means today doesn't mean anything. So I really think that, yes, yes, I don't know here, Borenović suggested a set of these conclusions, that this election here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we don't advance, we ensure fair and fair elections, we dissuade them. Well, that's a direct understatement of citizens and their electoral will and their electoral definition. And I don't see why there's no reason why we're not going to modernise ourselves, and we're not being a special country, not being a special country in everything and everything. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We've got more pens, two crayons, then a praggy. Thank you. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4477	Dear representative Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4478	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues. Since Mr. Mektić is about to add up two and two as three, it is very difficult to have a focused correction on his allegations, but here I will try what is really hard to tell the truth. First of all, again and in every performance, it demonstrates a heavy obsession with the president of the SNSD and the Serbian member of the presidency, Mr Milorad Dodik, and so here I do not know which way it completely draws out of the context of the address of a youth organisation president, in which he says that political programmes cannot be implemented in any other way but by fighting elections and participation in institutions. The other thing, one of them, is even mentioned in this OSCE Report as one of the exacting inaccuracies towards one person, and especially given that it was a single woman candidate for one of the more pronounced functions in Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am talking specifically about Mrs. Željka Cvijanović, the current president and the brutal lie that you have now and this time implicated by her background and her ancestors, which is all 79 and more and more times and denied and more in principle talking about you, about your means, about your indifference and your style, which you have demonstrated and while you were Minister, but here we all get used to this and as a public what you do as an MP. As far as the concrete bag is concerned, as far as the specific suggestion is concerned, you started on thefts and devaluation of the election process and the story that he was stolen to speak as soon as you got the first preliminary results that you were the losers of the election and all those bags you mentioned, that you added to yourself did not make up for the 77,000 votes difference between Milorad Dodik and 35,000 votes by Željke Cvijanović and that is you are in pain and you are in violation of the essential election process of 2018. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4479	Representative Mektić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4480	Well, I don't know what makes you think I'm obsessed with Milorad Dodik.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4481	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4482	So did I mention him at all?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4483	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4484	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4485	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4486	Okay, okay, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4487	So do I have the right to a stenogram, that...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4488	Without dialogue, just say correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4489	Here I am begging to be delivered a stenogram here, so let me read mine by the end of the session... if I mentioned it, then I'm lying, if I didn't, then you're lying. One of us is two liars here.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4490	Please, please, let's keep the level of dialogue, let's not. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4491	Well, no, I want to clear up, blame it on the quote, and now tell me where that professional service is that yes, deliver a stenogram here of my discussion and we'll clear this up right now. We're not going to charge ourselves like this, uh, I don't know without any arguments, so I can tell you now that I don't know what you're saying, so we're going after this hall here. I have not dealt with the past of Republika Srpska President Željke Cvijanović, nor am I interested, and even since I am of very close origin to her, I know her origin, I know her family and family, etc. But it doesn't matter. I said I read a quote from a book.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4492	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4493	... what... you're not worth telling, I'm saying I didn't mention Milorad Dodik, you say I did. I say I read and quote from the book, you say... So what language are we talking about, what are we talking about, so we can talk about it for seven days.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4494	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4495	Okay, that's it, thank you. Thank you. You just criticized me that I got away from the topic, you went into genealogy, I was just talking about the Constitution, so let's stay consistent. zastupnica Vulić, discussion. zastupnica Vulić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4496	...now he can. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I just want to say when it comes to election law on him, it is certain that we can discuss it and that we can still do it, but when it comes to charges against the Central Election Commission, I find it extremely incorrect, because I believe that these people are doing their job fairly and knowingly. They are merely the service of all of us and political entities and in general the implementation of the Electoral Law. The very fact that out of 1,073 complaints were sent to the BiH Court of Appeal for the conduct of the elections and the Central Election Commission was rejected as many as 1,069 of them, and four were returned to the process and the fact that 99.63% of the CEC's decisions were confirmed on the fact that the Central Election Commission is doing its job well and consciously. The law, I say, we can correct, change and supplement, but that our dissatisfaction and frustration are directed to the Central Election Commission is extremely incorrect. Mr. Mektić, I'll thank you for teaching me at the age of 31 that 26,424 votes in Republika Srpska, as much as you had, can steal, because I didn't steal any votes and I don't know how to do it, but I'm glad we have you to teach us and enlighten us by 2022. I will priznać, chairman, that the Rules of Procedure have not been memorized, but I certainly will by 4 February, I believe that all institutions, meaning entities, entity institutions in this Parliament should be spoken of with respect, so that any insinuation and any gossip and disrespect, whether it applies to the president of Republika Srpska, Mrs 81 Cvijanović or anyone who comes from Republika Srpska, will surely come across our dispute and I hope you will also take care of that, that all representatives, from all levels and Brcko districts, speak with respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4497	Thank you. We don't have any more logs for this agenda item. Let's move on, point 19. Ad. 19. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Damir Arnaut to include a new item in the agenda of the 2nd session of the Representative House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads: Establishment of the Interim Research Commission of the House of Representatives, issue: 01-50-1-15-219 of 19.12.2019 The House College as a commission, after the entity majority was not needed in the first round of voting, failed to reach agreement on MP Damir Arnaut's proposal. The Commission's report to the College you received, the debate is over, we remain to declare ourselves later in the second round of voting. Point 20. Ad. 20. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut on the debate on the adoption of the minutes from the constitutional, 2nd emergency, 3rd emergency and 4th emergency session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-219 of 19.12.2019
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4505	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4506	So now we're voting just to unite the debate. Thank you. Of the total attendance 34 – for 32, against nothing, abstention 2. So we have a general and entity majority, we have concluded that we will conduct a single debate on item 26. That is – The selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from the House of Representatives and that is at: 1. Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, 2. Joint Commission for the Control of the Work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, 3. Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, 4. Joint Commission on European Integration, 5. Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, 6. Joint Committee on Human Rights, 84 and point 27. Appointment of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the House of Representatives: 1. PSBiH delegation to the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union (IPA), 2. PSBiH delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE), 3. PSBiH delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation (PSOSCE), 4. PSBiH delegations to the North Atlantic Parliamentary Assembly (PSNATO), 5. PSBiH delegations in the Central European Initiative (CEI), 6. PSBiH delegations to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly (PSM), 7. PSBiH delegations to the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean (PSUzM), 8. PSBiH delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the South East European Co-operation Process (PSEECP), 9. PSBiH delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the countries of the Francophone Vocabulary Area (PSF); Points 26 and 27 Ad. 26. Selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from the House of Representatives: 1. Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, 2. Joint Commission for the Control of the Work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, 3. Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, 4. Joint Commission on European Integration, 5. Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, 6. Joint Committee on Human Rights Ad. 27. Appointment of members of the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the House of Representatives: 1. PSBiH delegation to the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union (IPA), 2. PSBiH delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PSVE), 3. PSBiH delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation (PSOSCE), 4. PSBiH delegations to the North Atlantic Parliamentary Assembly (PSNATO), 5. PSBiH delegations in the Central European Initiative (CEI), 6. PSBiH delegations to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly (PSM), 7. PSBiH delegations to the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean (PSUzM), 8. PSBiH delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the South East European Co-operation Process (PSEECP), 9. PSBiH delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Francophone Vocabulary Countries (PSF); The Joint College of both homes has prepared decisions on the selection of members of these, so the commission under point 26 and point 27. I remind you that the joint commissions under 26 have 12 members, 85 of which 6 are elected from the House of Representatives and 6 from the House of Peoples, with 2/3 members elected from the territory of the Federation of BiH and 1/3 members from Republika Srpska in accordance with Article 52. Rules of Procedure. You've received a motion for a decision regarding item 26 and we should choose members of the joint committees from the House of Representatives at this session. As for point 27. A joint colleague has prepared a proposal for a decision to appoint members of parliamentary delegations, members of our 189th Rules of Procedure are regulated by the appointment of members of delegations, we appoint members of nine delegations from the House of Representatives. I am opening a single debate on both the first and second points, with the fact that I am asking the club heads since we have had some changes, so there is one in the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, and I will ask the distinguished representative Đapo to give his position, and then we have a position in front of the SDA Club, that the PSBiH delegation at the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean, instead of representatives of Nermin Mandra, will be represented by representative Dženan Đonlagić. Honorable representative and club chief Djapo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4508	Thank you, esteemed chairman, for my respect to all my colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the Joint Club of Members of the SBB – PDA at the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development under number 3. Instead of the name Edita Đapo proposes Mirsad Kukić, so please respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4509	Thank you very much. So it's a correction at the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development instead of Edita Đapo going to Mirsad Kukić. Honored president of the Novaković-Bursac Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4510	Dear Chairman, on the basis of consultations with the head of the Serbian Club, Mr. Stevandić, I propose that the Joint Commission on Human Rights be appointed Jakov Galić instead of Nenad Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4511	Thank you. So, we find that in the Joint Committee on Human Rights, it is a proposal to appoint a representative, Galić, instead of Agent Stevandić. 86 And finally in the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, here I am in charge of the club chief, Mr Osmanović, to just say change, instead of Nermin Mandar going to Dženan Đonlagić. Here are the changes compared to what you got in the materials. The debate is open. No one's reported. Let's move on, thank you, point 28. Ad. 28. A review of Saša Magazinović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative which obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt within 30 days an addition to the Regulation on conditions of purchase and use of official vehicles in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in such a way as to prescribe a clear marking of official vehicles with a label or other appropriate way as to make it clear to participants in traffic, as well as to citizens, that it is an official vehicle and which institution belongs to, and all for the purpose of preventing abuse of use.", issue: 01-50-12011/19 of 19.11.2019 The House College has designated the Commission for Transport and Communications as competent to consider this initiative. The competent Commission has delivered its opinion, the Commission has supported the initiative and is referring to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening an initiative debate. Dear Representative Magazinović, in fact, as a proponent of a biting and discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4513	As long as I don't disturb this rhythm, the chairman, who you've caught, I'll be quick. This, to thank the members of the Transport Commission who unanimously supported this initiative, and in particular to thank Minister Vojin Mitrović, who has found the time to come, to support, to come to the session to support the initiative and to announce the ministry's readiness to engage in its implementation and from the ministry have also confirmed that there are significant abuses of BiH's driving park. By the way, in order to avoid confusion, this initiative does not apply to vehicles of protected persons, so Parliament's leadership, ministers, the Presidency, etc. It's all those big cars that, on Fridays instead of parking in front of the institution, end up on tours around the cities, and who often drive those who don't have the right to do that, because the heads of institutions buy their affection that way. So, I could talk about this a lot, but here, as I said, we caught a beat, just to thank you for the support of the Commission and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4514	Thank you, Your Honor. 87 there's no one else reported. We move to the next item of the agenda, but before we move to point 29. So we propose as a College to bring together debates on points 29 to 48, given that it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of agreements, conventions, protocols, contracts and amendments. Please vote on a motion to unite the debate on points 29 to 48. Thank you. Of the 38 present – for 37, against nothing, abstention 1. We have a general and entity majority, so we've united the debate on points 29 to 48. Ad. 29. - Ad. 48. Giving consent to ratification of agreements, conventions, protocols, contracts and amendments You've reached the opinion of the committee responsible for foreign affairs. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4516	You've caught a rhythm, so now, but I won't be long, so I have three agreements that I took as an example when we're discussing this and it's mostly agreements that come before this Parliament with you or leave, so you don't have a chance to ask or maybe we have, but here I'm not sure of the experience I'm familiar with, we haven't been able to get any answers. For example, at the Council of Europe Convention on the Forgery of Medical Products and similar criminal acts that pose a threat to public health, be careful in 2011. So, does anyone have to say if anything in this area happened new from this year 2011 to this 2019 and we're adopting it now, of course we didn't confirm it then. Now, so maybe we're confirming it, maybe she's no longer worth half the time, I don't know who might answer that. Or let's say, the Free Trade Agreement with Turkey, where we have, although we have a colleague here who signed this, was then a minister, so we have in Article 1.5, says – this Treaty does not prevent the existence or establishment of a customs union, a free trade zone or border trade arrangements unless they have a negative impact on the Trigovina regime of parties. I'd like to hear what this means, so this Treaty does not prevent the existence or establishment of a customs union, I guess, with Turkey, is it. And there you have goals, he says – it facilitates economic integration.... development and continued involvement of parties in global economic integration. I don't know who could say about this, what this means. Or, let's say, this with, the Cinematography Agreement with the Francuz, also what has already become a rule, mostly in this agreement when someone works in that technique, the preparation of these agreements doesn't involve counties, where they have even the original powers. So, I appeal at least once to understand that education, culture, information at the level of counties in the Federation is the original jurisdiction. So, at least let them put that and they're involved in this process, 88 even though I don't know what's going to happen here, but just someone knowingly or unconsciously avoids it or simply doesn't read it. So I would like to ask, first of all, that this agreement with Turkey and this with France should be voted separately, and the rest should be voted in the package, because you will probably suggest so. Thank you very much, or if there's anyone who can answer this.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4517	Thank you. No more reports. We're closing the debate. It's practically a exhausted agenda, and now we're going to agree on, when, as far as we're going to vote, the proposal is to give one break, maybe 15-20 minutes, right? _________(?) 15. 15-20 minutes, here's to saying that we start here at 6 and 15, at 6:15, at the latest at 18:20 we start with a vote. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4520	Okay, I got a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4521	All right, well, at the next session when the record's up, then you call and you'll say it. So let's go, point one. – The adoption of the minutes from the 2nd session and the 5th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Before that, we should declare the proposal to conclude the first deputy chairman of the dom, Mr Radmanović, who reads: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives to discuss the application of Article 85. Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. 89 I suggest we make a statement on the conclusion. Out of the total attendance 39 – for 28, against 3, abstention 8. It has a general and entity majority, the conclusion is adopted. We are now voting on the adoption of the minutes from the 2nd regular session of the House of Representatives. Of the total attendance 39 – for 38, against nothing, contained 1. So there's a general and entity majority. The minutes of the 2nd regular session of the House of Representatives were adopted. We now declare the adoption of the 5th Emergency Session of the House of Representatives. 5th Emergency, we're voting on the log of the 5th Emergency. Of the total attendance 39 – for 32, against 3, abstention 4. There's a general and entity majority. I understand the minutes of the 5th emergency session of the House of Representatives have been adopted. Point 3. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers, Number: 01,02-02-1-697/18 of 07. Three. In 2018 (second reading) So, we vote on the draft law in the second reading with the amendments to the Constitutional Commission Report. Out of the total attendance 39 – for 31, against 8, abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So the law was passed. Point 4. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-1185/18 of 17. 09. 2018 (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Of the total attendance 39 – for 26, v, 12, abstention 1. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. [[/consultations of the College.]] All right, we'll get back to you. Point 5. – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Patent Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (‘E.’), issue: 01,02-02-1-2852/18 of 27.02.2019. (first reading) We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Of the total attendance 39 – for 27, v 8, abstention 4. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4525	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4526	On the bottom, we're now making a statement about the conclusion I've read. Of the total attendance 39 – for 23, against 14, abstention 2. It has a general, it has an entity majority, which means this conclusion has been adopted. Since he's adopted, there's no vote on the bill. Point 8. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens, Proposer: MP Zlatan Begić, No: 01-02-1-1882/19 of 05. 11. 2019 (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Out of the total attendance 39 – for 22, against 12, abstentions 5. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. 91 [[/consultations of the College.]] We're going to a later match. Point 9. – Proposed to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, MPs: Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic and Predrag Kojović, issue: 01-02-1-1290/18 of 26. 02. 2019 (first reading). We are voting on a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure in the first reading. Of the total 39 present – for 14, against 21, abstention 4. So there's no general majority. No proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure was accepted in the first reading. Point 10. – Report – a detailed analysis of the work of the BiH Export-Credit Agency with a special emphasis on business with the "Unis" - the Dervent tube factory, with a proposal for measures to address the problem in the work of this Agency, applicant: Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01-50-1-15-50/17 of 17. 05. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. We had a few conclusions here. First, we vote in order, as suggested, on the proposal of MP Nermin Nikšić, who reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the competent institutions, the State Prosecutor's Office, the SIPA, etc., to exercise control of the legality of the business of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export Credit Agency, and to take measures to ensure the liability of those who brought the Agency in a state in which it is located. So we're voting on this conclusion. Of the total 39 present – for 26, against 8, abstentions 5. We have a general and entity majority, the conclusion is adopted. We are now voting on the adoption of the Report with the conclusion of the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs which reads : The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency to be set up in co-operation with entity governments as founders of the Agency to resolve the future of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH. So, the report along with this conclusion. Out of the total attendance 39 – for 18, against 13, abstention 8. There's a general but not an entity majority. [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4531	No, no, for the conclusion or for the report, especially for the conclusion, especially for the report. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4532	Oh, this is the report. from the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission which was only added, the Constitutional Court was added, modified in one word. _________(?) Repeat the vote. We'll do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4534	We vote for a conclusion or for a...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4535	The report itself had the conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission which was an integral part of the Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4536	/consultations of the College. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4537	All right, we're voting for closure, let's go. Of the total 39 present – for 39, against nothing, abstentioned nothing. So there's a general and entity majority, a conclusion has been adopted. We are now voting on the adoption of the BiH Ombudsman's work report for 2018. Of the total attendance 39 – for 27, v 10, abstention 2. There is a general, there is an entity majority, which means that a report on the work of the Attorney General for 2018 has been adopted. Point 18. – Report on the implementation of the General Elections 2018 and the report on the implementation of the laws of the Central Election Commission in 2018. We're voting for adoption of the report. Out of the total attendance 39 – for 13, versus 25, abstention 1. There is no general majority, so no report was adopted. 95 Point 19. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of Representative Damir Arnaut to include a new item in the agenda of the 2nd session of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which reads: The establishment of the Interim Research Commission of the Representatives' House. Only in the second round on the proposal of MP Damir Arnaut to include a new item in the agenda. Of the total 39 present – for 18, v 20, abstention 1. There's no general majority, so it's not adopted. Point 20. – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Damir Arnaut to discuss the adoption of the minutes from the constitutive, 2nd emergency, 3rd emergency and 4th emergency session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Only in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of Agent Damir Arnaut, which reads: The proposal for a minutes and the text of the adopted Conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission to the law enforcement authorities with a request to conduct an investigation into non-consistency between the two texts. Of the total attendance 39 – for 13, versus 24, abstention 2. There is no general majority, no proposal adopted. Point 21. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut) under an urgent legislative procedure. We're voting in the second round on the draft law by emergency procedure. Of the total attendance 39 – for 15, versus 22, contained 2. So there's no general majority. Point 22. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal to consider the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices under a shortened legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 132. Rules of Procedure. We vote only in the second round on a proposal to consider the bill's proposal in a shortened procedure. Of the total attendance 39 – for 13, versus 24, abstention 2. Therefore, there is no general majority and I find that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices will be considered in the ordinary legislative procedure. Point 23. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MPs: Saša Magazinović, Jasmin Emrić and Šemsudin Mehmedović to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. So we're voting in the second round on the motion to consider the bill by emergency procedure. Of the total 39 present – for 20, v 18, abstention 1. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. 96 [[/consultations of the College.]] It's a match, isn't it? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4540	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-01-16-0.u4541	So now the request for an emergency procedure has not been adopted. Now we're voting on a shortened procedure. So, of the total 39 present – for 21 versus 16, abstention 2. There's a general but not an entity majority. It's an ex post adjustment. Okay. Let's move on. Point 24 is – Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2017. We are voting on receiving information with a conclusion from the Finance and Budget Commission, which reads: The Finance and Budget Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury to provide information as soon as possible on the amount of total claims on the basis of executive court rulings relating to collective agreements in the Federation of BiH and individually on cantons. So we are receiving information with a conclusion from the Commission's Finance and Budget Opinion. Of the total 39 present – for 32, v 6, abstention 1. There's a general and entity majority, so the material was adopted. Point 25. – Proposal for a decision amending the Decision appointing members of the Permanent Committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, whose proposal was the SNSD Club. We're voting on the adoption of the motion for a decision. It's this replacement ministers with new deputies, just so we know what's going on. Of the total attendance 39 – for 35, versus 2, abstention 2. There is a general and entity majority, so the motion for a decision has been adopted. Point 26. – Selection of members of the joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from the House of Representatives. We vote on the selection of members of the joint committees from the House of Representatives according to the proposal for a decision you received and with the amendments submitted by the head of the SBB Club Edita Đapo and the chairman of the Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać Club, where we had an amendment instead of Edita Đapo goes to Mirsad Kukić, and instead of Nenad Stevandić in 97, the Commission for Human Rights goes to Jakov Galić, and Mirsad Kukić at the Commission for Economic Reform and Development. We're going to vote, we're voting in a package for all six commissions. Of the total 39 present – for 39, against nothing, abstentioned nothing. We have a general and entity majority, so we adopted the selection of members of the joint committees of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes from the House of Representatives. Point 27. – We vote on the appointment of members of nine delegations from the House of Representatives according to the proposal for a decision, which you received and with the amendment proposed by representatives from the SDA Club, where in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, instead of Nermin Mandar is appointed Dženan Đonlagić. Please vote. We vote in the package on all nine delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Of the total 39 present – for 37, against 2 abstentions. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that we have adopted... members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation from the House of Representatives. Point 28. – Consideration of Saša Magazinović parliamentary initiative, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15, 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative which obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to adopt within 30 days an addition to the Regulation on conditions of purchase and use of official vehicles in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in such a way as to prescribe a clear marking of official vehicles with a label or other appropriate way to make it clear to participants in traffic, as well as to citizens, that it is an official vehicle and which institution belongs, and all for the purpose of preventing abuse of use." Of the total attendance 39 – for 27, v 9, abstention 3. There is a general majority, the entity majority, so an initiative has been adopted. We are now voting on, having held a single debate, we are voting on a proposal to make clear on points 29 to 48 in the package. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We can vote on that conclusion before then. [[Common discussion]]
