ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5526	Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, respected media representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 6th Thematic Session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, an anthem of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Once again, I warmly welcome all present representatives, members of the Council of Ministers and distinguished guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed us that Minister Biser Turković and Deputy Minister Josip Grubeša were unable to attend today's session. The absence from today's session was justified by representatives: Dženan Đonlagić, Darijana Filipović and Mirsad Kukić, and 34 MPs are present at the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The House of Representatives held at the 3rd session of Marinković January Lepić on the discussion of the Annual Report on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2017 and the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2018, and adopted a conclusion on the Mirjana of a thematic session on the state of justice and the work of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, under the obligation of the presence of the President of VSTV. I also remind you that the House of Representatives did not receive the above-mentioned reports. The agenda of today's session was drawn up in accordance with the 3rd session of the House of Representatives held on 16.01.2020. Also, at the 6th session of the House College in the extended composition of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and 2018, it was concluded that information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and 2018 was included in this session and that the president and members of the VSTV BiH, the President of the BiH Court and the Chief Prosecutor of the Prosecutor of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH were invited to attend that session. I find that the 6th session, the thematic session, has the next Agenda 1. A debate on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary and the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 2. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, issue: 01,02-09-1029/18 of 23.04.2018; 3. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2018, issue: 01-50-18- 148/20 of 17.01.2020. 2 Before we move to the debate and to the agenda, in line with the conclusion of the Extended College, I propose that the debate on these points of the agenda be brought together, therefore, on all three points of the agenda, given that it is a matter of reviewing the situation in the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call upon the honourable deputies to plead that we have a united debate on today's agenda. Please vote. Thank you. Of the 38 present – for 33, against nothing, abstentions 5. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have come to the conclusion that we have a united debate on today's agenda, and this is about the following points, Ad. 1. A debate on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary and the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina As I have previously stated, this point has been formulated on the basis of the conclusion adopted at the 3rd session of the House, which is to organise a thematic session on the situation in the judiciary and the work of the VSTV with the obligation to attend the presence of the president of the VSTV. Ad. 2. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017, issue: 01,02-09-1029/18 of 23.04.2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5531	Dear Chairman and Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, honourable MPs, ministers, guests. First of all, I'd like to welcome you on behalf of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and my personal name. This thematic session is scheduled for the regular session of this House, which was not adopted on the occasion of the VSTS report for 2017-2018. We are invited after the conclusion of this House at a session with the title – thematic session on BiH's judiciary in a very specific situation. In fact, at the last session of this House, you made a decision, or passed the draft law on the termination of the mandate of the members of the VSTS of BiH, which has indeed not yet passed the full parliamentary procedure, but has been adopted in this House. We've decided before you've done so that we'll show up at this session. Later and after you adopted this proposal, we discussed this new situation at our last session and decided to still appear regardless of your proposal for a law adopted in this House. Why did we decide to show up? Not because we have to, not because we are obliged, here, there are members of the Council, a large number of them, the President of the BiH Court, the chief prosecutor, because we are determined to be partners with both of these authorities, as much as we like them or don't like them, we don't think about it at all. _________(?) A little stronger, we can't hear. I don't know how to turn this up, I don't have any of this here... Therefore, the situation in which I am giving you the situation in the judiciary has come to pass, also on the basis of the agenda that has been delivered to us without material in which it is too extensive a topic to fit in 10 minutes, so you will forgive me if I do not include everything that is in the judiciary at this time in my opening statement. I'm going to start from the beginning, and that's that if that's what the subject of this session is, it has to be considered in continuity, there has to be a partnership with something that already existed before this Council meeting came and took office. ...the oldest members of this council's assembly took office somewhere around, not by age, but by internship, somewhere around 2012, so I'm going to give you the information about how it was at the beginning of 2012, and how it is today. The data doesn't give a lie, they tell the truth. 31.12.2011 in the BiH judiciary covering that the judiciary at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the judiciary at the level of Republika Srpska, the Federation and Brcko District, and courts and prosecutors, totaled 467,889 cases. Today, the number is reduced to 288,090 items, so almost half the number of pending cases has been halved. The term of the case in courts of about 850 4 days was the average length of the cases in the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina was reduced to 380 days. Of course, it is not satisfactory yet, but it is somewhere, I must be honest, on some European average, because the whole of Europe has a problem with the length of the proceedings, so there are the largest number of applications, i.e. complaints at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. When we talk about all these data, it is not only important that they are reduced, the number of pending cases in courts is reduced, their age structure is important, and through the age structure of unresolved cases it is evident that those who have been solved, that those oldest cases are really solved, so that the age structure of unsolved cases today implies that in the judiciary in these cases which remain the largest percentage of those cases that are between one and three years old, these are real indicators. We have a constant problem with the inaccessibility of courts and prosecutors, about efficiency so much. Of course, that efficiency should and may be even better and we are taking measures to speed up the settlement of cases in these courts, but the objective possibilities of courts are as they are and we reduce the number of pending cases in courts year by year. The current number of pending cases is 288.090 is about one year's inflow of cases in courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, we have come to the situation that we have as many unsolved cases as a one-year inflow in all courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not so bad if I can't say it's good. When we talk about what's most interesting, what's most about controversy in this House and in the public, it's the subject of corruption. I have information here that monitors trends and it's interesting to see that with the number of applications received, the number of investigations is growing, or the number of open investigations decreases, which is completely logical. In 2015, since this parameter began to be measured, 1,129 have been reported by criminal acts of corruption in BiH's prosecutions by authorised applicants or citizens. In 2019, the number is 957, which means that the number of applications in the prosecutions is reduced. In 2015, there were 815 pending cases, i.e. unresolved complaints in the prosecutions, today it is 592. In 2015, there were 456 investigations launched, today there are 378, given the decline in the number of applications submitted. In the overall investigation work there were 634 2015, today 573, pending cases at the end of the year in the prosecutors' offices in 2015 were 1.009, today is 772, I am talking about corruption cases. The fullness of the prosecution positions is quite poor and this significantly slows the work of the prosecution, and I am taking this opportunity to call on all the competent authorities to make this problem of filling the prosecutorial positions that arises primarily because of the inability to finance these positions a speedy solution which will significantly improve and the work of prosecutors. In 2015 there were 244 indictments, today there were 225, 2019. In 2015, 205 confirmed indictments, 2019, 233, condemning judgments on these charges, in 2015 89, judgments in 2019 223, in which the acquittals were 62. The structure of the high corruption indictees, I have until 2017, to tell you, is one member of the presidency, one entity president, one prime minister of government, one prime minister of Canton, 18 ministers at all levels, one deputy minister, 13 ministerial assistants, two ministers in the state parliament, eight representatives in entity assemblies and the Brcko District Assembly, 13 municipal heads, 7 municipal eternity, 17 public institutions or enterprises, one judge and one consul, until 2017. The situation has changed in these two years, so there are more of these, but they haven't been processed yet. During the same period, the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina acted on charges of prosecutions issued a condemning verdict for one member of the BiH presidency, seven ministers, two MPs in entity assemblies and the Brcko District Assembly, two ministerial assistants, 19 public institutions and businesses and one Bosnian and Herzegovina consulate diplomat. 5 I will not continue to talk about this problem, but I will say that the area of criminal corruption is still an area with which the VSTS itself is not satisfied, where significant improvements are needed. However, it is not the only area where promotions are needed for many of these improvements is not enough what the VSTS is doing by taking these measures of systematic character. Legislative and executive authorities are required to do their part of the work and to pass the relevant laws, to adopt rules in symbiosis with the judicial system because only in this symbiosis and joint action of these three authorities can some serious success be expected in this area. The most sensitive area in all societies in the region is this particular area, criminal prosecution, corruption and all countries in the region have a problem with this issue. What is important is that we must not let out of sight, which is that when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary in the most complex situation of all the countries of the region because of its constitutional structure, because of the fact that four independent judicial systems and four independent prosecution systems exist under the Bosnia and Herzegovina justice system. We have two Supreme Courts, one Court of Appeal of Brcko District, one Court of BiH, which ends the judicial pyramid in these entities, or the Brcko District, or at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Synchronisation, coordination and action are difficult because of these circumstances but so is the result of the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but this must be taken into account when considering the results of the judiciary. The results of the judiciary in the fight against corruption are firmly tied to the work of the Law Implementation Agency. Law enforcement agencies are not only the prosecutor's assistant body, they must work in the same direction together with prosecutors and have shared responsibility. Of course, the prosecutions are leaders in that fight, but these leaders without these agencies are really like masters without tools. In any case, I will not talk about political pressures this time, perhaps sometimes in answers, I will not talk about those things that burden the work of the judiciary in such complex conditions of social life in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will say that today we are here for the reasons in which we want to cultivate partnership, just until that 15 June to which you have determined, so we will see, because we think that only in partnership is possible to improve the work of the judicial system, partnership between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. We're here to listen, to answer the questions you have. My proposal is to organise, given that we have such a complex judicial structure, and some meetings of joint parliaments that function in Bosnia and Herzegovina, since it is necessary to amend certain system regulations such as laws in a litigation procedure without any improvement in all entities, both entities and the Brcko District and Bosnia and Herzegovina will not have significant acceleration of these procedures, criminal laws in criminal proceedings in order to synchronised regulations at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina that allow for the acceleration of these procedures to also be adopted in order to adopt the anti-corruption laws necessary to combat corruption more effectively. I won't be longer, I believe you'll give a lot of debates and I'll have a chance to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5533	Thank you very much. Furthermore, the President of the Court wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5534	The esteemed chairman, deputies and vice presidents. I will speak very briefly to this meeting today in view of the agenda I have received and I have neither prepared nor felt that I have reason to discuss anything too much. However, 6 while respecting this meeting as a whole, I have decided at the last moment to address it briefly and to state, therefore, that when it comes to the debate on the situation in the BiH judiciary, I see it from the agenda, that it refers to the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017, 2018 and 2020. Since the agenda itself did not directly refer to the BiH Court of Justice, I do not think I should say anything special at this point, except that I appreciate this meeting and that I am fully at my disposal of every parliamentary issue. And to repeat what I have already said to the media, and I think that everyone who reads the media has had the opportunity to see, that the BiH Court is doing quality and good, that the situation in the Court of Justice is quite good with the fact that there are certain misunderstandings about the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office, therefore, the Court has its responsibilities, the Prosecutor's Office has its responsibilities and I very often feel that it is someone who interferes with the jurisdiction of the Court, which is the Prosecutor's Office. As an illustration, let's say the good work of the Court of Justice of BiH can be said that the BiH Court is the only court in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has no decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which would concern the issue of disrespect for decision-making within a reasonable time. So it's the only court in BiH that doesn't have such a decision by the BiH Constitutional Court where it would be suggested to make a decision within a reasonable period. I think that shows very illustratively about the good work of the BiH Court, and when it comes to individual decisions by judges, don't ask me that because the President of the Court has no jurisdiction to interfere with the decisions of the judges and judges of BiH, nor does it have anywhere in the world. In the end, it has been declared the right to the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution and the laws that the President of the Court cannot and has no right to influence the decisions of the judges. Anything else you might have to ask me, here, I'll be there and so, once again, I'm expressing my personal respects to you, and that's why I came to this rally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5535	We thank the President of the BiH Court. Your Honor, Chief Prosecutor, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5536	The Honorable President, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Media Representatives, I'll be a bit sharper than my predecessors. I've been the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for a year now, and I want to point out that I don't consider this quite good enough for the following reasons. One consideration of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary is and I agree with that, so I would certainly be present here to present my views and my opinions, and the other is the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and 2018. However, as I am here, I am asking for more time so that I can look back on all the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and my vision of the work of the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think this should have been taken into account when the session was scheduled, but I don't know if it was accidental or deliberate, but I believe that the BiH Prosecution Report should have been submitted at the working session. In addition, I would like to point out that after three years, I have the opportunity to address this meeting, because I have addressed myself as the acting official of the BiH Prosecutor's Office's Office's 2016 work report for the previous meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly on, and what it is saying, whether this is talking about the lack of justice or about the lack of work and others in this country. The question is, how long has the Parliamentary Assembly not worked? A year, a year wasn't really working. The question is, who was in charge and how was it? The question is why have we come to this situation and the question is, can we also talk about it and not just talk about whether in this 7 aspect, we can see if there are any responsibilities and whose, were received and compensations, were they in two places at the same time, so if there is no criminal responsibility for whether there are moral responsibilities here, gentlemen? Let us ask ourselves, just one day to stop the work of the judiciary in this country, prosecutors and courts, not only at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, to stop the work of police agencies following our work, to stop the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, what would happen to us? Therefore, we can and will discuss everything today, and I am happy to have the opportunity to answer all your questions and to see me directly and those who criticize me and those who praise me today in front of this distinguished gathering. Of course, we have to work together because we have things in common, but the division of power is clearly legislative, executive and judicial. Therefore, the issue of many things in this country does not apply only to the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the issue of non-execution of decisions of the Constitutional Court that have been very important lately. Please, this Parliamentary Assembly has many decisions of the Constitutional Court that have not been implemented, I am not talking about this assembly now, but we are talking about the Parliamentary Assembly in general and the previous and what is now, is there no one asking what should be done. I ask you: Who do you go after in this situation, who is in charge, who is responsible? We have formed objects, we have worked on cases and we will work on cases, but please, there is no burden of this moment on the work of judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At one point we had in one person and, don't be angry, and the holder of the legislative and executive authority, there should still be judicial authority so that we have a completely totalitarian regime. It can't be like that. As chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and as someone who has the authority to initiate criminal proceedings for everyone in this room, and of course not only on parliamentarians and all others, but also on members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, power, as has been said and as many claim, is in, on the chief prosecutor. But look at the responsibility, one wrong decision can lead to many problems in the country, one quick decision can lead to many problems in the country, one slow decision can lead to many problems in the country. For two and a half years, I have been acting as chief prosecutor, I am now the chief prosecutor of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I have 58 prosecutors working with me and 258 employees, and we are ready to do our job independently of anyone, regardless of the legislative, executive, judicial and any other authorities. We're not going to succumb to any pressure at this point, and I think it was time to discuss more important issues in this country today, this could have waited. We need to discuss the coronary virus, do you see everyone arguing about it, we met here today, you laugh, you see, we laughed about the migrant crisis, we talked about not being migrants in Bosnia and Herzegovina, today we had to discuss the migrant crisis and how to solve it, all together, not separately, but together as legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Of course, there's a laugh, and we'll see who laughs the last one laughs, I'm afraid we're all not all suffering all the consequences, so let's ask who's gonna sit in these benches and judicial institutions in view of this country's health situation. Today we needed medical staff, the most important experts, the most important ones to help us with all of this. As for the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2017 and 2018, I would like to point out that we have achieved the norm, because I must also point out that the BiH Prosecutors' Office and the Prosecutors of the Prosecutors of BiH are being evaluated and normised unlike the Court where there is no evaluation. We here need to be extremely open and honest if we're going to talk about the situation in the judiciary, if we're going to go out here and talk everything is wonderful, everything is great, it can't do that. It is up to everyone to level their position, if judges and prosecutors in the BiH prosecutor's office are evaluated and judges in the BiH Court of Justice must not be bound, the assessment must not be tied to the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I am not saying this at the expense of the Court, I see that the President of the Court reacts, to the harm of the President of the Court, because unless, I am not saying this because of this, all judges and prosecutors throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina are being evaluated and the BiH Court should be bound by the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not by the way the prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina were evaluated, which were also the reasons for withdrawing some media. I don't want to court you eight anyone, never drink coffee with anyone, never know anyone except the media as much as I've seen and heard, is it, what you say and stand behind every word that's here? Therefore, I would ask today to be extremely open in these talks, and in short I will just say about the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, because we have already submitted the report for 2019 to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, which is only relevant to deciding on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I must say that the report on the work for the BiH Prosecutor's Office was accepted for 2016 by the Parliamentary Assembly as a whole, I must say that here I have now studied these materials, which we received late for 2017. I do not know what that means. And besides, I want to point out one more thing, in 2003 we passed the reform, and I've been through it, 35 years working as a prosecutor, now as chief prosecutor of Bosnia and Herzegovina, deciding on us people who haven't passed the reform in 2003, I won't speak by name, I won't speak, I won't speak, but in the Constitutional Commission, people who haven't passed the reform in 2003 decide and are here in these benches are representatives of political parties. What are we talking about, was the judiciary then independent in its work, and is it now deciding whether or not it will be received a report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office? So I think that we all need to deal with far deeper issues, when we call together such sessions and arrange to consult those who should be exposed to them. and I will now just briefly tell you what the BiH Prosecutor's Office is doing and from these, you will be able to ask questions in the next period. The BiH prosecutor's office has 58 prosecutors and, as I said, about 250 employees, so we are one large prosecutor's office working in three departments, the first department is the Special War Crimes Department, which has three departments and five teams according to regional principles. The second department is the Department of Organized Crime, Business Crime, Corruption and Terrorism and third departments is the General Department. I must tell you that, on the charges of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, over 800 people have been charged in war crimes cases and over 3,200 years have been sentenced by the Court of Justice, of course, who is following our work. In the Department of Organized Crime, Business Crime, Corruption and Terrorism so far since the establishment of the Prosecutor's Office, more than 2,000 years have been committed and significant results have been achieved, these results have been achieved continuously. And I have to say that as far as the Special War Crimes Department is concerned, and there are likely to be questions, which is why I want to get to know you the way it's done, we're divided by regional teams and prosecutors have work plans for each year to make plans for last year. This is therefore a systematic approach to work in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which is regularly reported by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the Supervisory Authority of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Now that we're not keeping our records on whether someone is Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat or others, I'm asking you who you're dealing with and what I see through the media, check out who's been convicted, who's being accused, if you haven't had a chance so far and if you've never heard this before. But I also want to tell you that there are still a number of unsolved war crimes cases left, although we now have a reduced number of 449 cases against... a person, means KT case. Now imagine the number, unfortunately, given the number of war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we have had, that we are the leader in the region after solving war crimes, and that is what we should boast, we are all here in this room, unfortunately. So 449 cases against 4 223 people, the media is asking a question – what about A and many others are asking that? I'll tell you what's the question with cases A, objects A are categorized earlier, it's just, I think, about 883 people and not the items we got from The Hague tribunal. When we've come objects are deployed based on the State Strategy to work on war crimes cases and it's the only legal distribution this prosecution has to do. No matter what I did, I gave the order to run an A-case analysis, and two years was done on that analysis. I now tell you 190 of these 4 223 persons who are in the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office are persons marked A, and we have transferred 9 over 270 cases to the entity prosecutors and prosecutors of the Brcko District, so ask the honourable MPs what has been done with these cases, in these prosecutions and courts in entities and in Brcko District. And also, I want to tell you that we're working on objects of KTA, and you don't have to know these markings, they're about certain events, and among them are items of exhumation, a large number of exhumation items still need to be done, because it's getting harder and harder to get information. Each of us in this room in this environment should work to influence people to give their information where mass graves or individual tombs are located. More and more victims, with whom I have an extremely good relationship throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, pray, just to find the missing, more and more criminal prosecution, time goes by, it is important, but it is not so important but to bury in peace each and every one of us, in our ritual, disappeared. And here is the BiH Prosecutor's Office, working with the International Commission for the Search for Missing Persons and of the 30,000 missing persons now 23,000 have been identified, another 7,000 missing persons are wanted. Unfortunately, we and these things are used as evidence in criminal proceedings in war crimes cases. We also have about 500 cases of KTN, these are items by unknown perpetrators, and the issue of war crimes cases is not adopted. What's the problem, gentlemen, what's the problem, gentlemen, if I was to help as chief prosecutor and who I'm working with my associates on this, why wasn't I invited to see why? This must not involve politics, the only thing where victims can have their satisfaction is the BiH Prosecution, the only place they have and they know it well, no matter how much they talk, that you know that all victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina know that the only satisfaction they have in the BiH Prosecutor's Office where we look at them in the same way and with whom we have an exceptional, exceptional relationship. And don't drag the victims into any political issues, it's not moral, it's not moral, if the state's got to be adopted, and we're working whether she's adopted or not, why are you sharing it, what's the problem? I am prepared for another thematic conference in which I will participate when, if you ask this, this issue is very important in order. It slows down the work on war crimes cases, a new adopted strategy could make less complex cases in the larger... forward to the cantonal and district prosecutors because of the criteria that would be increased, now we are not able to do so. Last year, 67 cases were passed on in 2018, before that 15 cases, with these criteria that we adopted together with the Court of BiH and with which we have extremely good co-operation, so that you would not think, of course, everyone in their jurisdiction because of what I said, because of the assessment that there is some difference, we are doing extremely well with a permanent judicial council which, the Permanent Council of the War Crimes Court, but we must have assumptions for both the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office to pass these cases to me on to entity prosecutors. Next, and when we do this question is how the victims will behave, the victims have writtenly submitted a proposal to all war crimes cases for the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court. So no matter what they say, there is no trust in judicial institutions, there are victims asking us, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH, because they don't believe, not our colleagues they are dressed the same as we are to work in their midst war crimes, but the victims don't believe because here in the narrow space they meet with the suspect, with the defendant, give their statements, question others, change their statements. If it's pressure to transfer as many objects as possible, if that's the case, it's the easiest thing for us to do, we'll move. But the question, how will the justice of these victims be satisfied, we expect Judge Joanna korner' report, recommendations and I would like to say that we had correct, extremely correct co-operation, because I also participated with her in the previous period when there were certain problems and I think there will be some recommendations in that segment. But we don't need anyone to recommend anything, we need to agree together, we don't talk about each other, they're not the other, they're not the third, we have a lot of problems in this country that we need to solve. 10 I see you want to interrupt me, I want to tell you about another department, because I'm sorry if you've set up a session like this, then you have to let me say what I think. The other thing I want to talk about is organized crime, economic crime, corruption and terrorism. Our responsibilities are high and wide, as far as organized crime is concerned, the organized crime department has achieved extremely good results all these years, and I have to say that this is mainly about international drug trafficking, arms trafficking and now, lately, human trafficking and illegal migrants. As far as the Special Department of Economic Crime is concerned, you know, there are people among you who know how much the prosecution has brought, contributed, and nowhere has it been pointed out, to get off the Grey List of FATFA and that in two days we have made such an effort for me, as chief prosecutor, to go before that council with my associates and we have succeeded in that. So, when we want together, we can all do a lot for this Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we need to do a lot, a lot, a lot of things together. As for the subject of corruption, I ask you – what is high corruption? Now that you're asked what high corruption is, you're all high-ranking officials here, high corruption refers to high-ranking officials, high-ranking officials, you're all here and elsewhere high-ranking officials. The High Court and Prosecutor's Council respected all... recommendations related to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and brought high corruption. I won't read it to you, but please, gentlemen, read what's high-level, read what's the subject of high corruption. Don't think there won't be cases of high corruption in the next period, there will be them, and it will be with judgments. I'm responsible for saying this, I'm telling you, the situation in the country is not good, I'm glad this session is being broadcast and everyone can hear it. The situation in the country is not good, there are a lot of problems ahead of us, and now I'm going to say, let me move on to the third part concerning terrorism and the subject of human trafficking. The security minister said that Bosnia and Herzegovina has slept through the period of illegal migration issues, whether someone was much more concerned with the judiciary or with their work, we will see, we will see in the next period. But it's too late for us to see when we'll all be able to bear and bear the consequences of everything, all of it. I want to point out that this human trafficking situation is next, the number of human trafficking crimes has increased, 30 human trafficking charges have been filed in the past year. We have problems in local communities between migrants and our local population, you see now the situation in Greece and Turkey and what we can expect, again we can say they will not go through Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are a poor country. We'll see, it's not in my jurisdiction and I don't want to deal with it, it's mine to act repressive after certain crimes, but as chief prosecutor, I have a responsibility for the citizens of this country to live safely and safely and to contribute to us as prosecutors and in this segment. In this regard, the Ministry of Security, all the police agencies, all of us and the legislative, and the executive, and the judicial authority must be together to overcome these problems that are just ahead of us, we will easily react if something happens, the easiest thing, I have the district attorneys who will work, should be prevented, but it is not in my jurisdiction. And to end with terrorism, there is also a Department of Terrorism in this prosecution, a very important section of gentlemen, a very important division, and it's something that unites us probably all in this room. The question of whether something will happen anywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't ask who or who it is. I want to say that this BiH Prosecution Department is doing extremely well, that so far we have had, and that you should know and know, a number of types of criminal acts of terrorism. First.... Foreign fighters who initially went to foreign battlefields and who we had sheltered somewhere on the road to Turkey and only made agreements with them, the BiH Prosecutor's Office said concluded agreements. Of course, we made agreements and let's see who went, who financed them, and no more agreements. 11 The second segment is terrorist acts that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory and they are all condemned and completed, fortunately they are not, what was finished is, you know, among other things was the attack on the US Embassy. And third, foreign fighters, actually our citizens who were fighters on foreign battlefields, who returned last year and in the first wave one, and then seven. On this occasion, I also want to say that even from that segment, there's been a leak of information, we're organizing to take over people at the airport in secret, in the evening it's in some media that you and you are coming to us. How to provide these people, how to provide our citizens at these moments? I call on the media to co-operate, and I think that last year's co-operation is far, far, far better and the media in all of this needs to help all of us, not to be afraid of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, young people are not leaving because of the judiciary, nor because of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and ask yourself, everyone in their midst, why young people are leaving. It's not the jurisdiction of the prosecution and the judiciary, it's the jurisdiction of others, is it, to deal with it. Trust, as it has been said, is not good in the judiciary, but I will talk about the BiH Prosecutor's Office, this way I tell you since I was appointed as the chief prosecutor's office on my own I get numerous applications concerning the cantonal, entity prosecution and the Brcko District prosecution, which are not in our jurisdiction. It's encouragement for this prosecution, we look at it, we see it, most often we return it, but I mean that public perception has to be better. It is the place of this Parliamentary Assembly to show what they are doing and to make public perceptions worse or better, but it must be heard directly from the holders of judicial functions and I have been at the head of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the fourth year, unfortunately now the report for 2017 and 2018 is here for 2019 norms, I will not talk about norms, it is exceeded, norms are fully met and over 100%, but that there are places for improvement. I see critical of everything that is done, in the area of corruption must be better and it will be better, as I said, but the issue of corruption of the BiH Prosecutor's Office is only a matter of high-level corruption. What about the cantonal prosecutions and the Brcko District prosecution? A session like this if you want to discuss justice should be called by all representatives, except for the meaning of members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the President of the Court, me as chief prosecutor, chief federal prosecutor, Republika Srpska, Brcko District, all federal prosecutors, judges, so that we can sit down and talk, everyone has an area. It cannot be the state's prosecutor's office and the BiH Court and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of Justice's problem with Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary. Please, while the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is here, I am not talking about this conference right now, because since 2003, I've been calling on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, there's going to be independence in the work of judges and prosecutors, and no matter what, I've been going to... at the Tuzla Canton Assembly, I've been through all the elections, I've been doing 35 years, I think it's possible to fix the situation in the judiciary, here's how. The Supreme Court should, that is my opinion, in the BiH Court of Justice, all ends on charges of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, no comment should be made on the decisions of the Court of Justice and I will not comment on them, but I believe it should be the Supreme Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let the D.A. be separated, and let them be prosecutors who will represent themselves before that Supreme Court, but there must be someone. You can't represent three instance in one court and solve in the third instance, firstly liberating, then judgmental, and then liberating, and then judgmental, so, please, someone must be above it so that they can solve it, someone impartial. I won't say that these colleagues are not impartially far from it, but if we are sitting in the same facility, that facility, in my opinion, should be isolated entirely from these buildings where we are sitting, perhaps even in another city, in order to ensure justice for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And finally, I'll conclude with the following, Mr. Pribe's report I've studied well, they've made excellent recommendations, we'll respect the recommendations as far as the BiH Prosecutor's Office is concerned, and as far as the financial reports of the holders of the judicial functions are concerned, I think they should file their reports, and that it's known that who was doing what you're doing, as you're all giving your financial reports, but I'm 12 for it when it goes through and when it comes, you've seen that there was, I'm not going to talk about it, certain things, and I'm going to have everyone to submit their financial report from the beginning to the end if I have to. And finally, I ask that the discussion be constructive, I am ready to answer all the questions, I was born in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I grew up in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I spent the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in a small place in Zivnica near Tuzla, I love all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and be sure that you will be treated equally in this BiH Prosecutor's Office. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5537	Dear Representative Magazinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5538	Dear Chairman, don't be angry, but we should stick to this House's Rules of Procedure and should appreciate it just as well as the holders of judicial functions as we do. So you should have warned the prosecutor twice and explained where she came from, that this is no conference but a session of the highest legislative body of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You should have warned her here that she had the right to arrest someone, rather than finally start arresting those corrupt politicians, but to make sure that she doesn't lose the evidence, because it often happens to them, and that there's no need to lecture us about what we should do and whether we should discuss the coronary virus or migrants or their work, because it's disrespecting the most state institution. And I'm sorry to tell you this, but you're the chairman at this point, you should have told her all of this by not arguing that all the part about what she was invited to talk about. And those who are called to Parliament shall speak of that for which they are called, and not of that which is their own. And one more thing, do we have, I don't think we have the right to replicate the opening exhibit? If we have this, it's going to turn into a replication discussion now, and I'm going to sign up right now, and I don't think we have the right to do that, so we should go first in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5539	We're definitely going into debate. Prior to that, the esteemed representative Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5540	Saša said in part what I was about to say, and I'd just fix President VSTV's allegations, this isn't any set, Saša said, it's not even a conference. And it would also correct the prosecutor's guilty allegations in the sense that we here on the agenda are just discussing two reports of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and I don't see what the problem is and I don't know why she came here, whether to report it to us or to arm us and to tell us what we should do. It is here, therefore, regularly by procedure to report on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's Report for 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5541	Thank you. I suggest we not go with the replicas, so, as we agreed, we move on to discussions. It is likely that after the discussion there will be different corrections of the false allegations, replicas, etc. So, I suggest we go to the discussion now, I'd like to ask you. To me is a respected colleague and 13 first vice-president, Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, before we started with the session announced that he would like to speak first to the House. Unfortunately, he is a little bit in response to the reported discussion late, but here I am calling you and asking you to let my colleague Nebojša Radmanović speak first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5542	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you ladies and gentlemen for letting me speak first, even though I answered the fifth, sixth. Today we have, regardless of the initial but, not the opinions that are contrary to what I'm about to say, the most important session in the last 15 months of this House, and not by chance and that I am right to show both this kind of expensive and this kind of introductory presentation. This is much more than a debate about justice itself. The judiciary is an important cornerstone of every society, and because of this, when we discuss it here, we have both the top of the legislative and the top of the executive and the top of the judiciary, and that is why we have decided together to hold such a debate. I think that it should flow into the democratic atmosphere and that today we should all show what level we have democratically reached in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not good to turn this Parliament into a courtroom today, to have prosecutors, lawyers, judges appear, and I have a feeling that that's how it can happen. This would show, because the debate on justice, as I said, is democratic, how much democratic level we have achieved in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What are we trying to do? We seek a developed democracy in which everyone will hear, of course, sometimes with harsh words. We chose this session at the request of a number of MPs, and also because we were at almost every session, whether or not it was a part of the agenda, we were discussing the judiciary and we had no representative of the VSTS, and there was no Ms. Chief Prosecutor, and when we put the agenda here, the truth was justified, now everyone is there, and now there are representatives of the executive government, and I think this is very important for BiH. Today we are also discussing our progress towards the European Union and you are hearing well, according to the progress of the European Union, because the work of the judiciary in BiH is a good indicator if we are making progress towards the European Union, whether we are developing in general towards the free developed countries in which the rule of law rules rule, as our colleague says when correcting us when we talk about the rule of law, and that is important, and today we need to show you. Today it will be shown whether we want to go to the European Union or whether there are those who are holding back the work of the judiciary or who are not going to develop the judiciary properly in line with European norms and are actually blocking the way towards the European Union and I think more things are being resolved today at this session. I am sure that parliamentarians, as in previous debates, and when there were no representatives of the VSTS, will talk about the importance of separation of functions, we have had the opportunity to hear earlier, as Mrs Chief Prosecutor also spoke of. There is a separation between judicial, legislative and executive authorities and we must make a contribution today. I believe that we will confirm with a number of people who understand each other in this area, but also in what I was talking about, democracy, the European Union, that we will confirm that we need an effective judiciary, an impartial judiciary, and that we here will do everything in our power to do so, but we expect that from those who do so, to have overall progress in society. Of course, in all of this, so here at the end of the debate, and not by the importance of the end, we should discuss both freedom and sovereignty, and I don't happen to mention it in the context of this topic, freedom is the driving force of every civilization, even these. Freedom is important, sovereignty, and we will ask ourselves today whether we are fully sovereign in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The sovereignty is, to remind you, 14 managements of their own territory without foreigners, without those who operate with us on the side, and that should be an important thing here today. I am sure that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also in this room there are many who will agree with the following sentences, we have legal universities with tradition, we have quality law schools, we have quality legal experts, judges, prosecutors and others who, in practice, have progressed and proved what they can, we have many who have completed prestigious colleges outside and are working now in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we can all contribute here and without foreigners to the development and justice and system as a whole. Let this be an invitation for all together, together, to all our forces, to come to the conclusion that we do not have foreign judges and prosecutors and any other, except for helping foreign influence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the judiciary in particular. And, finally, once again, don't let us turn this into a courtroom today, it's important that we hear each other, that we don't accuse each other, that those who follow us and follow us into both entities, in all the cantons, and expect a lot of this debate to be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5543	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5544	Thank you. This session will be useful if people who sit here and represent the most judicial institutions finally squeeze the loop and come out and say the name of the killer Dženan Memić and the name of the murderer David Dragičević, because they know it, they discuss it with their colleagues, but they have no guts. It is these two cases, the murder of Dženan Memić and David Dragičević, the best illustration where the judicial system is located in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is a criminal trial in Sarajevo on the indictment of the cantonal car accident prosecutor, and everyone knows that Dženan Memić was not killed by being hit by a car, but was killed and the court confirmed it twice. The story of a car accident stems from the highest representatives of judicial institutions, the evidence disappears, the witnesses are threatened, the VSTV does not react, it does not react. The prosecution has been unsuccessfully trying to prove that it was a car accident, the court insists it couldn't happen, that the man was killed. Imagine how far that goes, that the wife of the alleged driver of that car said that her husband hit the truck on foot, then got out of the car and hit him with a metal bar over the head. So who, when he hits the pedestrians, comes out and hits him with a bar? Later reportedly, it wasn't supposed to be, but it pulled that statement, but it remained a written clue, but also a clue to what direction it was headed and what it was all prepared for. At the first trial of the defendant's husband, who was already released twice without a perpetrator, she stated that her husband had not even hit the pedestrians with a van and that she had otherwise spoken in the investigation because she had been threatened by the police and had her husband put a gun in her mouth to accept that act on himself. It's a picture of the first court system. Has WSTV ever analyzed it, done anything? No, I'll tell you later what VSTV did on this case. Dr. Alija Čeljo, the man who operated on Dženan told his father that Janan's head injuries were such as not to respond to a car accident, that it was a blunt force trauma, he told the police at the hearing, but he was never called by the prosecution to make a statement. Please be quiet as I speak, this is the BiH Parliament, it's not the middle where you're used to. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5545	You're talking about an open case we shouldn't be talking about in this House. [[no microphone turned on]] It was not completed by a second-degree verdict...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5546	This is all you could...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5547	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5548	You could read all this in the paper... Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5549	It's an open object you shouldn't be talking about... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5550	Those who think they're one pillar of government think they can manage Parliament here as well. So, you can read all of this in the paper, as you can read in the newspaper, and that after Dalida received Burzić letter from Prosecutor Osmić Senad saying there is no basis for doubt that Mr. Damir Hadžić would have brought into concrete connection with the crimes committed two days later, ordered him to be arrested and held in prison for two months to be released by the Court, as the Court also freed those you claim, all together, that they had killed Dženan Memić. So when you get a piece of paper like this that was in court and this is a public matter where the acting prosecutor says there is no basis for doubt. Then the chief prosecutor orders an arrest, so the court only confirms it after two months, then what happens, that prosecutor gets a promotion and goes to the BiH Prosecutor's Office or the Court of Justice... So, but the VSTV doesn't deal with it. They are not even interested in publicly citing a lawyer Feraget Feraget, who says VSTV Vice-President Ružica Jukić, three months before Dalida Burzić will be appointed Judge of the Court of Justice of BiH, and that is what he says – it is important to remove her from the position of Chief Prosecutor of the Cantonal Prosecutor Canton of Sarajevo, and later we will be easy with her. What are you going to do with her? Why don't you explain to us how you do it? I'm not talking about the Memić case in terms of the perpetrators of the crime, I'm not talking about the police, I'm talking about missing the prosecution that you're all aware of, that there are, that you're talking about when you're sitting, let's just press the loop, come out here and tell me who it is, all the things you talk about when we talk privately. The guy was killed just like David was killed in Banja Luka. As you explain that 100 days has not been raised, an open investigation, 100 days could not find the basis of the suspicion that the murder of David Dragičević was committed, 100 days round. And the investigation was unsupervised by the D.A.'s office. Did you talk about where his phone went? How are the evidence planted? How did the evidence from the file of the murder of David Dragičević go missing? You're not, you're not because you're involved in the protection of murderers, so don't do it because you don't have the guts. You have the nerve here to wave your finger – you can all be arrested. Go higher, then whom do you threaten, then go. Let's finally get going. I want you to start arresting politicians, only you don't have the guts to do it because half of you there are on the rise of politicians, controlled directly, came by bringing you in, supporting each other. There are cases where you have a personal interest, you take down each other's applications, and then you come here to wave your finger. 16 So all the countries in transition ended their transition path when large political beasts were arrested and the judiciary was cleared of corrupt scum. So that's the end of the transition. From this place I can tell that the time will come, very soon, when the political mafia will answer 100%, and when they will not be able to say – they are all the same, because we are not all the same. But their pets, too, on the rise from the judicial institutions, will be responsible for the people, they will. Not only those who protect the perpetrators of the most difficult murders, but also those who lose evidence, who release those whom the entire state knows are guilty, who are conducting investigations in the wrong direction, will answer. In our justice, honor of exceptions, and I always underline it, there are a lot of politically dependent, corrupt bandits willing by their actions to be accomplices to murder, destroy, hide evidence, threaten witnesses, force them to change their testimony to protect the powerful, arrest innocent people by political order, they are cancer wounds of this society as large as the carcinogenic appearance of political powers dealing with crime, and they have their protection. On the one hand, they are undersigned, boasted, and unscrupulous bandits who abuse the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and on the other hand, the quiet mass, which is the majority, which still lacks the guts to dispel this bogey. I appeal to all fair and fair in our society and to those in judicial institutions who are such as to show that other than being good people have the courage, we all deal together with our children's murderers, unscrupulous criminals in high political positions and their judicial accomplices. Here, despite the distraction, right on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5551	Thank you very much. So, please, let us stick to the agenda and keep our discussions in line with the political, here's to say, dialogue and culture when relations or mentioning individual names, representatives of judicial institutions. Dear Representative Mektić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5552	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers and all other guests who are here today. I really think that today we should work here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and if someone thinks that this, session of the House of Representatives and these MPs here can call the conference, call it expensive and I don't know what other names, and if someone thinks, and in this case, the chief prosecutor, after she has finished her discussion down there to enter the MP in a word like this, jump off the chair, take a self-initiative word...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5553	I'm sorry, let's make a deal, when the breach of the Rules of Procedure has to be said which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. So, we're working here according to the Rules of Procedure, tell us which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured, we'll consider it here in the College and determine whether this member... 17
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5554	So you were obliged to warn that no one could rise from the guests and interrupt the MPs in his...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5555	That's what we warned you about. So you have the possibility of a discussion at this point the Rules of Procedure is not injured. I suggest we move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5556	One more time, I'm calling for a 27-man injury.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5557	Which is?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5558	Well, look at you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5559	... I reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you, you must read the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5560	And here there is the intention of, in this way, breaking MPs and putting them in the word today of this session trying to make a joke and bring down the integrity of this Parliament. No one can speak when an MP, except for your chairman, is allowed to intervene in this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5561	Okay. That's settled.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5562	And no jumping off the chair, no getting in the word and no interrupting...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5563	Okay, thank you. Dear Representative Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5564	Honored chairman, respected colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests. My discussion, I will try to direct my discussion on behalf of the SNSD Club in the direction that the Constitution has given us and the position of MPs in the House of Representatives, and I mean, I don't feel competent, I feel even, it upsets me always when people call any other people at times when it's not an explicit duty, especially in public. So I appeal to my colleagues that we try otherwise to focus our actions towards policymaking, old ageing, law-making, supervision of the implementation of these laws as it seems in some developed democratic countries and as we like to call on everyone, that we are to introduce the rule of law. In my opinion, and in the multiple and fundamental positions of the SNSD, the parties from which I come, the question of the judiciary is simply indivisible from the issue of the rule of law in all countries, as well as in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I must remind you that the SNSD, one of the few parties that has been standing in the continuance of a decade in the position that the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, unfortunately, a political legal hybrid and a construct that does not have a good foundation in the Constitution and talks about the rule of law, and we have such a structure, we are entering into a serious logical but functional problem. It's not that we're not real, and we know how everything went in certain situations and certain decisions were taken by people from our party, but we still think it's only sustainable, normal and natural to go back and try to create reforms that would come from within and that would be based on the Constitution. We're here, like we all do, and we like to use medical terms, so I'm going to use similar ones. We want to treat something, we want to operate, we don't have what we don't want, but without the willingness to make a real diagnosis, without targeting the real cause, and it's a question of looping and acknowledging whether we are really as politicians and elected representatives ready at this point to admit that we as a House of Representative really don't have any special jurisdiction at this point, or any jurisdiction, even when it comes to adopting, or not adopting a report on the work of the Prosecutor, on work, or receiving knowledge, not taking the knowledge of the VSTS report, etc. Therefore, the rule of law, I expect from all my colleagues that today they will appeal to it, and I want to bring the discussion to its opposite – the rule of law is the rule of man, one individual man. We in this, today there is no safe in the world, in Europe definitely, an example that the rule of more eclad than the rule of one man, that is, the opposite of the rule of law than what we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this form of high representative and the decisions he has made in the past, but, here, it may be that he will not give up in the present and in the future. So, whoever calls on the rule of law today, I expect it to say that this rule of law means that no one is above the law and that responsibility must exist for all public proceedings and for all public decision-making, but I also draw attention to the fact that we have a situation that is high representative in the past and based on decisions taken regarding the judicial system and what we are discussing today has been pleading before the Constitutional Court about challenging the possibility of any way that his decision is being challenged or challenged before any other court. For someone who wants to talk about the rule of law, about justice, I don't think there should be any comment, but it is precisely the loop to be said and to be fenced in the XXI century by anyone who wants to be considered a democracy or a citizen who advocates, therefore, these democratic values, European and modern, XXI centuries, to be fenced from such actions and to say that what happened in the past is unacceptable and that we need to gather strength and concentrate our domestic forces to try to reform what can and to reconcile what we can normally try to join the family of modern European states. Why am I saying all this? Because I stress this opportunity that the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina has quite developed as it is and whose beautiful products we enjoy, here, all citizens, businessmen in this country, have come from imposed decisions by the High Representative, starting with the decision of 2000 and the imposition of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, and afterwards on the Prosecutor's Office, the VSTS, etc. dakel, the BiH Constitution did not foresee the jurisdiction of the judiciary at BiH level, and we must call everything that happened later, if we really want to work on reforms and reform this in some desired direction, call it the right name and try again, I say, together somehow find a solution. So, in addition to the formation of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office on the basis of a decision and no constitutional basis, the High Representative passed a law allowing the Court of Justice to take the case, or so-called extended criminal responsibility, and you know what 19 of these things were known to look like in the past period. Also, the High Representative started introducing systems, as I said, of the whiskey court and prosecution councils, and all of this, which he pointed out, here, very heartily and Mr. Magazinović, is the order to call it, that the system in which we are now, as a matter of principle, at least, pleading that we strongly resent the judges, prosecutors, that they have no responsibility, is it the order to call it that, that the judges and prosecutors we are now, as a matter of principle, are so heroically speaking, appointed in the VSTS system which was conceived by the High Representative in BiH. Not only that, many judges and prosecutors have appointed members of high court and prosecutorial councils elected personally by the high representative. So, as a summary, I will say this, for the absence of something called the responsibility of judges and prosecutors and the VSTS was done and imagined in the system of the judiciary of the High Representatives and the OHR, i.e. that the reforms so far have been carried out just according to the architecture of the international community and this kind of reform has been carried out, so we have results. I will repeat again the same known position of the SNSD as it was in 2011 when we tried together with the European Union's High Representatives to re-initiate very well the realities within Bosnia and Herzegovina, to initiate and implement what should have been desired results of judicial reform through structured dialogue. I'll only mention four agreed on that goal in Brussels. We all know, or who wanted to read, how it went, or how it didn't work out, how much anyone wanted at all, and what kind of political goals he advocated, or being ignorant, allowing himself to survive in one part of the judicial system. We still think there's a chance if we go back and how much we have honest will and desire, to fix things, to get back to what was then agreed in one part of Brussels and what was written in the Protocol on the outcome of a ministerial meeting in the framework of a structural dialogue between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina, to watch out for you five years ago, to say, everything we're talking about without doing in the structure the way we're supposed to talk about demagogical, we're talking about, here we're going to go to any voters, to our own sympathisers, etc. So, I'm going back to four key things, that it's necessary, because time doesn't allow me to talk anymore, that it's necessary to pass a new law on courts within Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, of course, would, in accordance with this, amend the Law and the Prosecutor's Office, Criminal Law, etc., then the new law on VSTS and what it has already mentioned, I think, the chief prosecutor, the state's strategy for the processing of war crimes. For all of this, the one who wanted, who really had the political will, had the past, let's not say nine years, that I'm not going back to 2011, I'll only go back to that in 2005, when this was signed in Brussels, everything else, including that urgency we had at the last House of Representatives, I consider actual politicisation and inappropriate, if you will, and pressure on the current people in the judiciary, and key structural problems and key challenges and what we agreed to be, obviously still regrettable. Unfortunately, we have no political will to resolve. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5565	Thank you very much. Let me just have one minute to, let me get this straight, because it seems to me that maybe we haven't understood each other very well from the beginning. Your biggest remark, all the representatives when we discussed the VSTV Report for 2017 and 2018, was the lack of representatives of the VSTV and representatives, and the VSTV president, today you have the VSTV President present and the VSTV representatives, you have the opportunity to comment on your comments, suggestions, suggestions, suggestions, criticisms, you have heard from the president inauguration and you will have the opportunity and opportunity to hear his, answers to your possible criticisms, comments and suggestions. On the other hand, the BiH Prosecutor's Office's report for 2017 and 2018 was not present, 20 were justified because she was officially absent, and then this House of Representatives, or an extended college, composed of the presidents of all clubs decided to unite all the points of the situation in the judiciary and to be this thematic session. So, now you have a satisfied first and basic condition which was the biggest problem or your biggest remark, you have the present VSTV president with the members, you have the attorney-general present, you have the President-in-Office of the Court of BiH and I ask you to conduct this discussion and debate in the margins of the Ethics Code, the Rules of Procedure, within a requested culture of dialogue, and I am quite sure that both the representatives of the VSTV, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court will, with due respect, treat the representatives of the House of Representatives who have been elected by the citizens, and that the representatives will respect the Ethics Code, so that they will be extremely correct, especially when mentioning individual cases or individual names. Therefore, discussions must be justified, justified, within the required margins of the Ethics Code and the culture of dialogue, and in that sense I am asking you and I do not consider it necessary to repeat this and hope that I will not be in a position to warn anyone or to use Article 79 of our Rules of Procedure, which speaks of maintaining peace within the work of the House of Representatives. So, let's respect each other, meet the conditions you asked for, you have present representatives of the judicial institutions, say professionally, reasonedly, at the level of culture dialogue what you want. Dear Representative Ermić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5566	I thank the chairman, a warm greeting to all present. At the beginning of this discussion, I have to say that I am not satisfied with the inaugural address of the managers of the judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I need to look briefly at the general state of the rule of law and justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Citizens' rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina are guaranteed by Articles II of the Constitution and Annexes I and VI of the Dayton Peace Agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to enable all citizens to enjoy their rights and full freedoms in every sense, it is necessary to establish the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. The rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as we know, has been established over the past 25 years or a quarter of a century, so the real challenge today is to assess the attainment of the level of rule of law, as well as the conditions in the judiciary that should be a system of values and standards that enables the availability of justice equally for all citizens without discrimination on any basis. The adopted BiH Foreign Policy Strategy for the period 2018 – 2023 set out that one of Bosnia and Herzegovina's main strategic objectives is full membership in the European Union. The rule of law is one of the fundamental values on which the European Union is based, which means that there is no membership for Bosnia and Herzegovina until it reaches a satisfactory level of that fundamental value, as well as commitment to its promotion. In recent years, Bosnia and Herzegovina has shown in various ways and forms systemic weaknesses and shortcomings in the area of rule of law, especially in the judiciary. The conclusions and recommendations of the European Commission's Opinion on a request from Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership from 29/05/2019 state that Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to thoroughly improve its legislative and institutional framework to ensure that three priorities are met, priorities six, seven and eight and six measures listed from a) to f) aimed at improving the overall state of rule of law in the country. The first priority in the area of rule of law listed in the European Commission's opinion is to improve the functioning of justice through the adoption of new laws on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the courts of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with European standards. Complementary views were also declared by this distinguished House when we discussed reports on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2017 and 2018, 21 and adopted conclusions regarding the need to improve the institutional and legislative framework. As it is a very important regulation or set of rules that need to be established and regulated, the organisation, the competence and authority of one or two bodies, which are tasked with ensuring an independent, impartial and professional judiciary, and making the judicial system more efficient and functional, I consider it necessary and useful to consider and analyse solutions that operate in some European countries and countries of our region. A large number of European states have established state authorities tasked with ensuring the independence of the judiciary, judges and prosecutors. Some of the European states in which there is one council or one council are Bulgaria and Lithuania. In Bulgaria, the High Judicial Council with 25 members, members of the Council or of the Council, are elected by judges and prosecutors, 11 members, and 11 members are elected by the National Assembly among judges, prosecutors, law professors, lawyers and other lawyers and three members are officially the presidents of the Supreme Court and chief prosecutor. Litvanija has a Judicial Council of 23 members. Some of the European states and states in our environment where there are two bodies or councils or councils are: Montenegro has a Court Council of 10 members and an Prosecutor's Council of 11 members; Italy High Judicial Council of 27 members, Chairman of the Board of Administrative Justice 15 members; Croatia State Judicial Council of 11 members and State Attorney's Council of 11 members; Macedonia Judicial Council of 15 members, Council of Public Prosecutors 11 members; Poland State Judicial Council 25 members, State Prosecutor's Council of 25 members; Portugal High Judicial Council of 17 members, Supreme Council of Administrative Courts of 11 members; Slovenia Court Council of 11 members, State Prosecutor's Council of 9 members; Serbia High Council of 11 members of 11 members. For the sake of overall pictures and experiences, I think it is interesting to specify some countries where the law does not prescribe the existence of a judicial and prosecutorial council or advice such as the Republic of Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Czech Republic, Finland, Luxembourg, Switzerland, etc. Given the above-mentioned experience of the countries of the region and of European countries and of our experience since the entry into force of the VSTV Act since 2004, I believe that a thorough and professional analysis should examine the possibility of introducing a model of two bodies of the High Judicial Council and the High Prosecutor's Council and, in view of the existing legal order in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In any case, a new VSTV law is necessary as an optimal response to the existing situation and the damaged integrity of the existing model, and the VSTV must be positioned as a confidential institution that will be fully impartial and professionally in the service of the judiciary. In a report by experts on the issues of the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so-called The Pribe report contained a very clear and unambiguous message to all domestic actors that in no case would happen that the European Union could lower the standards of rule of law in the accession process. Therefore, if we want to be part of the European family of countries, we must commit ourselves seriously, responsibly and consistently to the rule of law and meet the conditions in this important area. Legal experts from the EU have concluded that the complex architecture of the BiH Constitution is often used as an excuse for inaction, to avoid difficult talks and to find the necessary functional solutions by reaching pragmatic compromises. The Pribe report stressed the need for systematic judicial reform as an important segment of the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Legal experts across 106 points cited a large number of weaknesses, shortcomings, recommendations and measures related to the rule of law, the judicial system and judicial institutions in BiH. A group of independent experts, among other things, states the report: The litigation procedures are tiring, complex and formalistic, and take too long. The civil justice area is overloaded by an unsustainable backlog of over 1.9 million unsolved municipal cases. The outdated system of execution of court rulings is further complicated and puts problems in the judiciary. In the civil justice area, 22 judicial proceedings are too long, in violation of the rights of trial within a reasonable period of time, some proceedings take up to 20 years. The poor management of the hearing and the well-being of the judges in ensuring procedural discipline contributes further to the long-term nature of the proceedings. The procedural provisions do not apply strictly, hearings are irregularly scheduled over a long period of time, and deadlines often extend without serious explanation. Simeon is deeply politicised and is not independent, the Ombudsman institution should not be primarily limited to issuing non-binding recommendations. The BiH criminal justice system does not fight serious forms of crime and corruption. The co-operation between state, entity, cantonal or district judicial authorities is extremely weak, the relationship between prosecutors and police is far from clear or effective in curbing crime. Law enforcement agencies are mostly passive and do not always comply with the prosecutor's orders. Cooperation and exchange of information between agencies is controversial and largely unsatisfactory. tužilac fail to manage crime prevention policies and conduct investigations. The quality of many criminal investigations is very low. It has been observed that, without proper justification, the obvious steps taken in the investigation, particularly in cases of serious forms of high-level crime or relating to highly ranked persons, not high-ranking officials, but highly ranked persons, have been missed. The most serious problem observed was the subjection of prosecutors to inappropriate influence and and lack of personal independence. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Operational inefficiencies in cases complex financial crime and organised crime are the cause of particular concern, and in these cases it is clear that the judicial system does not work. [[the speaker is warned on time]] In corruption cases Inexplicable professional and legal errors have been observed at a high level. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I don't have any more time chairman, I'd beg a minute, two more, when you could give everyone time...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5567	We read that report, there's no need to read it again, if you have any conclusions or suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5568	It's good for the public to hear the situation in the judiciary, not because of me, not because of you, but because of the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5569	Here's 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5570	Here's just a proposal for a conclusion: the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Ministry of Justice and the BiH Council of Ministers to carry out an analysis of experts' report on the issues of BiH's rule of law, so-called Pribe's report, production and delivery to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the adoption of an action plan to remove shortcomings in the area of rule of law, implement recommendations and measures contained in the report of experts on the issues of BiH's rule of law since 05.12.2019. Thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5571	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5572	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Here today we are all here both executive and legislative and as some call it, the judicial authority and, of course, the regulator in the area of justice. I think that today's session has started a little bit of unnecessary anxiety that has been introduced by the inaugural Lords from the judiciary, and I think it's unnecessary for the reason that, I think, or at least we should be on the same task, all of us on the left and the middle and the right. And our goal should be to meet together like this once a year and to discuss the state of the nation, because I agree that we should discuss both the coronary virus and the migrant crisis and the fight against terrorism and the processing of war crimes cases and the injustice that unfortunately dominates the Bosnian-Herzegovina society, and what we are responsible for all of us, and these on the left. Why do I say that? In fact, I will počeću with one retrospective when the story of the Bosnia and Herzegovina judiciary was started, which was in 2003 when the High Representative made, or imposed, a decision on the laws defining the procedure for imposing the law on the three High Judicial and Prosecutorial Councils, which functioned as a single body and whose work was attended by both international members of both the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH and the VSTV. And of course, as the process progressed, here to this day we had various assessments and assessments of the situation in the judiciary, so the international NGO Freedom House in its 2008 report assessed our situation in BiH with four. I arrive at 2018 with 4.75 and say it is a negative trend given the assessments they give. Why is this so, so it's not just the responsible people from the judiciary, but we're responsible and, of course, the executive authority. The VSTV is a single regulator of the judicial and prosecutorial system and they say that such a model exists only in Romania, whether it is a good model or not, if it is good, I don't know why the democratic West doesn't apply it to itself. Is it supposed to be done? You should. And the situation, here, for the last year and several days, has just shown that strong intervention is needed when it comes to the Law on VSTV and when it comes to the regulation of the judiciary. Unfortunately, the VSTV as a regulator is responsible for the situation in the judiciary, and it seems to me that dealing with itself and the processing of certain highly-positioned people in the judiciary is in fact the result of an internal struggle dominated by the elections or re-election or the initial election in the VSTV, which we have had a situation to see both the BiH Prosecutors and Prosecutors-Generals, which certainly sends a very ugly picture when it comes to BiH's judiciary. Of course, the VSTV has recently deviated from certain principles that have been conducted in its work, so we have had the situation that because of the abuse of the VSTV Regulation and the application of the provisions of those rules of conflict of interest we have the situation that they were appointed persons who should not have been appointed to the VSTV, not to mention any name. In the current Law on VSTV, the mechanism of responsibility of VSTV members and the exercise of the duties of members of this regulatory body is not sufficiently developed. We have had many affairs that have actually shaken the VSTV, which should be morally clean and brilliant, because it actually needs to show one picture of the situation that, a moral picture that should exude in BiH's judiciary. Unfortunately, because of all these affairs and the inability to process and responsibilities of the VSTV members at all, we are now in a position to adopt, as a legislative body, amendments and additions to the law to limit, here, or replace VSTV. It's a very ugly and bad picture that we send to the public not only to the Bosnian Herzegovina, but also to the international. 24 Furthermore, what it is, which may be one of the negativity observed in the work of the BiH judiciary, is that some clause of free jurisprudence which appears as an argument that excludes any form of debate on the jurisdiction of the judge. Life has taught us that there are actually judges who are not operated on corruption, who are not excluded from any political influences, etc. So maybe this one, this clause in, shouldn't be applied at least in some more frequent number. Also, assessing the work of judges and prosecutors is an almost unchanged legacy from the former system, and in fact it is in some way a direct influence on the work of judges. When I say direct influence, because depending on how someone assesses it will depend on his status in the BiH judiciary, which is certainly not good. Furthermore, as regards the valorisation of the work of the judiciary in general, the indeterminateness of the legislator, so we are to blame, this middle order, we MPs, has become the point of dispute, so, in relations between Parliament and the judiciary at all. Instead of being the basis for reacting which are by nature matters of the power of the legislative authority, the VSTV has done nothing to establish a dialogue between judicial and legislative authorities, such practice has completely distanced, meaning, the legislative and judicial function in BiH. Unfortunately, we are in a position to adopt or receive reports on the work of both the VSTV and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH every year, and this is one set of statistics that essentially does not mean much to us, but a fundamental debate should be of this nature to actually generate where the key problems in the judiciary are. And I must, of course, hurry for this short time. Under the current law, the prosecutor is in charge of the investigation, and it's actually one inherited right from the former system when the investigation was conducted by an investigative judge. I think there are certain indisciplines – why am I saying this? Because it takes the powers of an investigative judge under the old CAP of the former common state of SFRY, whether it is really the question – whether the police dominate the investigation and whether there is abuse in the investigation by the police when they plant, when they push through various evidence that does not stand, etc. Can the D.A. and the D.A. even resist it? Does the prosecutor fall into a trap to be part of the hostage? How many arrests, detentions of businessmen, who after that, were held in police custody for three months or six months, and after that did not receive either indictment, nor criminal charges, but the loss of business. Who's going to answer for that? That's what we were talking about here through parliamentary issues, but we don't have a chance to talk about this directly, I think it's a negative trend, and if you want, I can tell you how many examples you want from that area. Furthermore, as for the processing of war crimes and otherwise, you know that in the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH there were also foreign judges and we had The situation that, I'm sorry, I'm going to finish quickly, we had a situation that here from The Hague delivered cases A and B, here's the chief prosecutor talking about these cases. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It seems to me that cases of B are being opened indefinitely, with the tendency for witnesses or material evidence to be destroyed, or witnesses to die, etc. And to put it ad act, and that these A objects that have a clear perspective are kind of pushed a little bit aside. I don't think that's supposed to make the D.A. fall in. A trap. [[the speaker is warned on time]] What's it like, second thing? I think it's the wrong strategy because it will not contribute to reconciliation and determination of truth but rather to new conflicts and lower-level confrontations. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5573	We have to finish. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5574	And of course, here I am ending, I think an innovative strategy for the processing of war crimes has never been adopted on the Council of Ministers, and it lives in reality, how, based on what, etc. Furthermore, the Pribe report only everyone reads and I will not talk about it, but it seems to me that its recommendations provide a good basis for a new amendment and addition of the law on both the VSTV and, of course, the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5575	Thank you. Dear representative of the Nada Mladina, here's a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5576	Dear Chairman, Co-chair, Representatives of the Judicial Institutions and Representatives of the Civil, Civilian Sectors, Honorable Ministers and Doministers, esteemed guests, colleagues and colleagues of the MPs and representatives of the public information funds, I warmly welcome you all. I would like to ask and remind and suggest that the transitional system is independent, one of the pillars of government in the country, in order to contribute to this thematic session next. In order to establish a single, co-ordinating and independent judicial system in BiH, constitutional changes are also necessary to fully regulate the independent position of the judicial authority and allow the establishment of the Supreme Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a premise for the unification of judicial practice and equality of citizens before the law in the area of our country as a whole. This requires self-critical review of those state and political institutions and individuals in them who use the dignity of the institutions to exert these pressures and thus endanger the independence of the judicial authorities, but also that the judiciary sharpens criminal policy for these acts. A rise in the confidence of citizens in the judiciary can be achieved by adequate and responsible activity of legal holders in the consistent application of the applicable rules and in synergy with the other two branches of government in the process of amending and adopting new legislation that would strengthen and specify professional criteria for the selection of judges and prosecutors and create wider socio-economic miles for more effective work of judicial institutions. The best indicator of citizens' trust in the work of the judiciary will be that when citizens are more confident and more often pronounced in a known saying in the people, I will sue you, I will judge you. As it is known from the funds of public information and the president of the VSTV, in his timely meeting with the head of the OSCE in Bosnia and Herzegovina, expressed personal dissatisfaction with the results achieved by the BiH prosecutors in the fight against corruption and organised crime, which is why the roof judicial institution is taking on a large number of strategic operational activities to improve them. Some judicial institutions in this direction have been broadcast and encouraging signals, saying that Canton's Prosecutor's Office has increased the number of cases in this period by as much as 70% compared to the previous period, but around 300 cases have been still inactive, and minimum penalties have been imposed for acts of corruption so far. In the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly in the previous meeting, it was pointed out that measures were laid down to correct the work, results in the work of the Prosecutor's Office. These other positive examples in the work and other judicial institutions confirm that 26 justice courts are trying to wake up, that professional responsibility for judicial officials is growing. The merits for this belong first of all to, I believe, most of the judges and prosecutors who were true, let us add, and unsuspecting professionals in their business, honest people who adhere to those people's wisdom – service is service, and society is society. And that their service is more than any society outside the courtroom does not mean that they are incompatible people, rather politically undetermined, because they must not be members of political parties, in human, private and official communication they are directly, useful interlocutors, but when they are able to establish a distance and leave their job in the cover of the judicial and prosecutorial file both in the courtroom and in the courtroom. In this way they manage to keep their traditionally high-deserved human and professional dignity and the dignity of the judicial institution. The reputation of the judiciary interests as much as its, even more than any society that wants to be democratic, stable and prosperous and state in it as an organisation of authorities that wants to be a legal state with the rule of law. But there are also problems, that all these efforts are realised, possibly possibly and certainly, factors that hinder these processes and therefore are not only the holders of judicial functions but also the general perception of the public and the political elite, if they can be called at all. In the previous period, it is proposed that the current VSTV law be divided into two councils, judicial and prosecutorial, to limit the mandate of members of these councils to four years without the right to two consecutive mandates, that the conditions for the selection of members of both councils must be more stringent than the existing ones, that the choice of judges and prosecutors with their professional biographies and property records be made more transparent, that the Information of the BiH Ministry of Justice, which was the basis for the discussion, be complemented by an assessment of the state of corruption in judicial institutions and that the Council of Ministers be tasked with delivering in the parliamentary procedure the draft law establishing the Supreme Court of BiH. The proposal for these conclusions and the statements of the first people in the executive year can read to administrative institutions the desire and willingness of the legislative, executive authorities to contribute more effectively to the functioning of the judicial authority in the framework of regular co-operation with judicial institutions and to confirm that they themselves would be responsible for carrying out judicial decisions. And secondly, which would take measures out of their jurisdiction to implement them and all others, which is referred to by the observed number of unimplemented and untimely implemented court decisions and even the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court. It would be wrong to suggest conclusions, statements, initiatives, to perceive as some work order to the judiciary, they are more of an expression of expectations and trust in him and his capabilities and obligations that he only and in collaboration with other institutions using more and more consistent his legal powers to contribute more to removing obstacles on the path of faster and more stable development bh. society, and in particular the implementation of human rights and freedoms as basic assumptions for its development. However, in the current social debate on the situation in the judiciary, three fundamental issues, the principle of judicial independence, its politicisation, or depoliticalisation, have been updated, and the most important thing is the return of citizens' trust in the work of judges, prosecutors and judicial institutions. It depends on how independently, impartially, responsibly and effectively the judicial authority will act within its constitutional and legal powers, depending on how much both the legislative and executive powers will function, both constitutionally, legally and productively, and which reversingly has a positive or negative impact on the functioning of the judicial authority. Only the synergy between these three pillars of power based on the principle of non-mixing of one branch of government in the jurisdiction of the other two can make citizens bearers of sovereignty, guarantee their rights and freedoms and on this basis the rights and freedoms of their collectiveities, ethnic, religious, political, ideological and other forms of organisation, association, which is also a presumption of a prosperous democratic society, for a legal, functional and stable state. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5577	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5578	Since finally from the third attempt, the president of the VSTV honored us with his presence, I will begin my discussion with his statement of 04.03.2020. He says he expects that the session will be used as an arena for the populist crackdown of various unfounded phrases and accusations from individual MPs, with the aim of accrediting me, so he and the VSTV members, who are acting in this way with the judiciary, because their goal is not constructive but destructive. I don't know which arena the president was referring to, whether that gladiatoric from ancient times, that toreador's fight with the bulls or the circus, but whoever he meant all the numbered ones are for fun, no matter how cruel or unusual she is, but for us MPs, at least most of us, there's no fun when it comes to justice. In order to disprove your conjecture that this will be about unfounded phrases and accusations, I will stick only to the 2018 Report, which I have already done, and to the conclusion of the Report of International Authorities and Members of the Law which regulate the work of VSTV. The facts are only important to me, because the citizens of BiH are expecting us parliamentarians, so those of us sitting in these parliamentary benches expect seriousness and responsibility. I'll quote, of course, and a few of your press statements, and you'll say whether they're correct or not. First of all, the 2018 Report, I will probably already be boring to my colleagues and colleagues, because I am talking about its contents for the third time, but it will forgive me because both previous times you were not present, 97 million converting marks have been invested in the judiciary for the implementation of project activities, so donor activities from 2004 to 2018 at all levels of government, this is a statement from the Report. In 2018, over 3 million converting marks were assigned to VSTV to improve the efficiency of the judiciary. Strong funds spent, and the judiciary remains ineffective. Despite finding that every year the number of pending cases remains 5 to 10%, the fact remains that procedures are being conducted for a very long time, even those with an emergency mark. In particular, inefficiencies in insolvency cases confirmed by the finding on page 46 of the Report, there was a slight increase in the inflow of the case in 2018 and a slight reduction in unresolved cases. In 2018, the number of days of these procedures increased by 52 days longer than in 2017, so from 865 days it increased to 917 days. Progress has also not been made in the processing of war crimes, neither in the number of cases, nor in the duration of the proceedings, as reported on page 50 of the Reports. I only picked some data from the report so I wouldn't bother my colleagues and colleagues, since the full statistics are in the report. The culmination of the inefficient and at least suspicious conduct of the judicial authorities is seen in the proceedings of Dragičević and Memić and what is the worst prosecutor in the case of Memić, Sead Kreštalica, so the prosecutor who lost the dispute because the defendants Ljubo and Bekrija Seferović were released of guilt, was proposed for v.d. Deputy Attorney General Canton of Sarajevo, which, fortunately, VSTV refused. But this is only an indication of how and who is proposing for the most judicial functions and will actually remain unknown to the public how many similar proposals have been adopted. We are only reading about affairs, and the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor in 2018 received 895 complaints, 30 disciplinary proceedings were completed in 2018 and only 16 of 2018. So, the fully inefficient work of the Office with mild sentences is the most important part of the reminders, and in particular the issue is within, the 28 special question is the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor within the VSTV which brings us to the situation of the cadium and the prosecution, the cadium and the judge, which is already being recommended by the European Commission. In the chapter on the independence of the judiciary, you stated that there is a continuation of the public pressure trend, that the judiciary must freely decide in cases without external interference, and that the judge must decide in cases without any external influence. Of course, we agree with that, too, but many of the affairs that the judiciary is burdened with, and I've already listed two of the most famous ones that haven't been completed so far, is causing a high degree of public mistrust towards justice. Article 3 The Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Board of Justice (1) requires that the Council, as an independent and independent body, be tasked with ensuring an independent, impartial and professional judiciary. How it will ensure these quality holders of judicial functions when its leader is not independent and professional either. Putting the president of the VSTV in the service of politics, the "potkivanje“ affair puts an end to the judiciary in general and raises doubts about the appointment of judges and prosecutors, which is the Council's superior task. If the VSTV does not sanction its president's behaviour, neither the documented affair, nor the subjection to political influence, then the citizens will have confidence in the judiciary. Milan Tegeltija's statement of 19.02.2020 for Alžazira, that the members of the Council elected from Republika Srpska form a twofold RS and that in this context they have obligations towards the RS, is incorrect and in direct contrast with Article 4(2) of the Law under which members of the Council are persons of high moral quality and professional impartiality. Neither is Milan Tegeltija of high moral qualities, on which there is also recorded material, nor is it impartial. The presence of a meeting where Milorad Dodik instructs members or managers of BiH institutions coming from the RS is all but unbiased. What is further concerned is the fact that the VSTV members, after the discovery of the "potkivanje“ affair, gave unanimous support to their president, that the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor rejected the application in this affair as unauthorized, that the last VSTV session concluded that Tegeltia's views do not have an impact on the work of the VSTV and its members, that his participation in the meeting is a personal position, that the VSTV vice-presidents are not still quoted by the provisions of the law under which the VSTV is an independent body which has no responsibility to the legislative and executive authority of entities or other levels of government in BiH. Imagine instead of sanctioning the president's behaviour, launching a procedure for his shift, the most important conclusion is that they are an independent body that doesn't really answer to anyone. Then who does it suit? Does that mean he can do whatever he wants and how he wants without any consequences? Neither the positions of the High Representative nor the Ambassador of Kvinte, nor the Durgian international institutions are respected, the VSTV continues on the same path and in the same way. The VSTV Change Act is one way to show that self-will can be put in place, because we are a legislative body. The reactions and statements immediately after the adoption of the Law that they will not pass in the House of Nations confirm the political impact on the VSTV and its president, because I would like to be explained what the proposed Law in the House of Peoples will vote against when no member of the House of People has received a VSTV report. How will they explain to the citizens that this VSTV is good for them and that it should give them confidence? The perception of the citizens of justice is a special story, all the research on corruption shows that the judiciary is in the eyes of citizens at the top of the scale, and very often in the first place. The irrefutable fact is that citizens do not trust the judiciary because of the affairs that have shaken it, because of the length of the proceedings, because of the high costs, because of the fact that criminal document applicants actually suffer the consequences later, all of this prevents them from seeking justice. The statements are interesting, too, by the president of the VSTV and on this issue -- the judiciary is not politicised, it says, the perception of citizens. Then how come citizens get perceptions if the judiciary isn't politicized? Or the next one he says, you can't expect a man with a hard life to believe in justice. That's terrible. If happiness were a better 29-year-old justice system, these people would have the highest confidence in the judiciary, and they would not give up seeking justice for the reasons mentioned above. Neither are the president's relevant pages and pages of international reports The institution, here I will soon finish, so the already listed opinion of the European Commission and the Pribe report, which analyses our situation in the judiciary in a number of pages. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So it's a particularly interesting statement from the president when Pribe's izvještaj says that the report is quite critical, but it's not something we haven't heard before and we couldn't expect. So what did you do to keep us from hearing it and to be surprised by some different findings in the reports of international institutions? And here I am, so here I am. to show that nothing is a populist crackdown on a variety of unfounded phrases and accusations and that these findings are based on legal provisions [[the speaker is warned on time]] and reports from international bodies... [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5579	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5580	... I just said, let me say, I just wanted to say that after, during the session, our club will offer certain conclusions that, therefore, this wouldn't be just an empty story.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5581	In writing, of course. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5582	The respected chairman of the correction is several, firstly I will refer to Ms Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's allegations as regards the meeting that is a Serb member of the BiH presidency, chairing the Council of Ministers of BiH as the two top currently elected representatives in front of Republika Srpska at the level of the joint bodies also held with different representatives, who carry out different levels of government at the level of BiH, to which they are delegated on behalf of Republika Srpska. Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, if I do not think you need me to explain, you know very well what the current constitutional structure looks like and how they are delegated, how certain people are elected to certain positions, by which principles. I Referiš to the fact that you weren't at that meeting, you don't know what was said there, and if you want to know, there was a very serious matter about the legal and judicial and state system of the nakaradian system, if you want and explicitly, arising from the political decisions of the Constitutional Court, which I didn't get to say anything about because it's a limited time. So please, here, if you weren't, and I know for a fact that you weren't, I don't know what capacity you're commenting on what was going on there. I'm not arguing with you right now, but you definitely weren't there. You're also saying that certain political parties, and this is precisely what the SNSD has come up with a public stance, as we normally do with public and clear views on this, are not going to support that criminal law on the termination of the term of office of current members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for a number of reasons. First of all, the law is radical and all of you who voted for it are very well aware of what it looks like, legally speaking. The other thing that's more important does not solve any problems and concerns clean politics and resolution, attempts to cloud and solve problems by which it cannot be solved [[the speaker is warned on time]] 30 [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5583	Thank you. Dragan Mektić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5584	The correction of my wrong allegations refers to the previous presentation of a colleague, who said the VSTV president attended a meeting called by a member of the BiH presidency from Republika Srpska and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and ok, that was it. However, a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats, Milorad Dodik, was held before the meeting, where these conclusions were also reached by the Executive Committee, which were subsequently transferred to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and the President of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Milan Tegeltija after the conclusion of the SNSD Executive Committee, Milorad Dodik, in the media, said he would publicly support those conclusions. So, it will support the conclusions of this Executive Committee of a political party, here's the aside to leave what went when it was called by these two people, but to accept the conclusions of the executive committee of the political party, does that mean that tomorrow it will accept the conclusions of the executive committee or the presidency or the main committee of some other political party, is it talking about professionalism, is it talking about Unbiased by his political orientation. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5585	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all those present in the hall, since I'm reporting for the first time. So he would refer to what Mrs. Lepić said a few minutes ago, and others today in the discussion. So, they say that the perception of citizens is about the state of justice and all the other things they've been talking about and stuff like that, it's simply incorrect because I, because they haven't confirmed any research... or I don't know what to confirm that we see that someone has investigated it, seen it and that it's really a citizen's position. So, there are citizens, that's just the kind of floscule that's being used, so I'd like the second time they're saying that according to the research we've done on a sample of 1,300 copies, I don't know, we've found that the citizens think so and so on, so maybe I believe that. So, and that's just the story that there's something to be said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5587	Thank you. Of course, without contesting the right of respected MPs to the replicas they have according to the Rules of Procedure, we initially agreed to focus on discussions. Here's two more corrections to the wrong quote, but here's how we sort of avoid this, because we still have a lot of reported debaters. Sanja Vulić, correction of the wrong quote. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5588	Dear Chairman, this certainly isn't the reason, uh, the SNSD is seeing it very interesting in this House and I wouldn't answer for a correction of the wrong quote, but since we are in this position I simply must. Coli Mektić challenges who we receive instructions from, and so on, I must mention everyone here present, and the public that SNSD is the party that has been the biggest support for 20 years when it comes to voters in Republika Srpska. What is controversial is that we have 56 MPs in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska together with our coalition partners and, of course, we will agree with them on interests and attitudes when it comes to Republika Srpska and SNSD positions. I don't know what the problem is that Mr. Tegelti came to the meeting, there was also a fellow opposition party member when it was in eastern Sarajevo and the fact is that a call came from a Serbian member of the presidency who, I note, was the only one in the history of all members of the presidency who received 300 and a few thousand votes in support of voters. So someone who got here a thousand and a few votes and came through compensation thanks to the domestic election law judges the morals and rights of a Serbian presidency member with 300 and a few thousand votes is extremely incorrect. The second thing is that the call was made by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and by a Serbian member of the presidency, if the president of the VSTS had not responded, it would have been extremely irresponsible, primarily irresponsible to the citizens of Republika Srpska. And speaking of instructions and other things, here's what I have for my colleague, Mektić, who and where does he instruct you? It is a key question for this House. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5589	Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5590	I just said that, I'm not going to go further into this, uh, we're all aware of what the subject of the meeting was, and in what capacity people were invited... in which capacity it was the one who invited them, but I would just say about the research, I really didn't want to take away this Parliament's time, but I'm sure Mr. Lovrinović will give up several relevant researches that say that the perception of citizens is about corruption when it comes to justice is beyond doubt.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5591	Thank you. We've got two more corrections, so to go to the discussions, we've got 12 MPs reported for 10 minutes, that's more than two hours along the lines, etc. So let's focus on the discussions after all. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5592	Short, the correction of the wrong allegations to the respected colleague Lovrinović. I did research and 81% of people, young people primarily in Bosnia and Herzegovina think they're leaving BiH for injustice, and that's the key problem we're discussing today, only 62% said it was business, meaning economic reasons. 32 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] On a sample of 2.5 thousand people. And of course a brief replica to the esteemed colleague Vulić, if she does not see what the problem is that Tegeltija attended a party meeting, then it is another additional problem, neither is Tegeltija a representative of the SNSD in the VSTV, nor is she a representative of the RS, but should be an independent regulator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5594	Thank you. I see Nikola's satisfied with the sample - is it okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5595	I haven't heard where... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5596	Representative Mektić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5597	Thank you, Chairman. My replica refers to Mrs. or Miss, I think, Vulić. Unlike you, I'm not going anywhere for instructions, I'm thinking with my head, and if you know where I'm going for instructions, go ahead and say it here, and don't ask me what you're asking me. And the other thing you said, that someone was coming in with a thousand votes and a confederation, I assume you were thinking of me, you came here as a bingo here to this Parliamentary Assembly. Your colleagues went to the Council of Ministers, so they picked you up somewhere from the bottom of the list, and if you want to go to Election Unit 2 – Banja Luka, I got 28 thousand personal votes. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5598	Please, Article 77. Rules of Procedure – respecting the agenda, I have just warned you, we are starting to move slowly away from the focus topic precisely because of these replicas, in the future correction of the wrong quote should be very precise, as well as the violation of the Rules of Procedure be very precise, if this occurs. We focus on further discussions. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative of Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5599	Thank you, Chairman. Therefore, Article 76(2) of this interpretation about correcting the wrong allegation - the MP may request a word to correct, in his opinion, a false statement which may be the cause of the misunderstanding or which requires an explanation. 33 Therefore, the correction of the false quote should not apply at all to the agenda, but exclusively to something that someone before that apostle who seeks correction said. Uh, so I'd like to protect the rights of the MPs to warn you of this fact, that when someone corrects the wrong quote corrects what someone said before. Now, when Mrs. Vulić speaks of instructions, of course the man refers to that part of her discussion and does not adhere to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5600	Thank you very much. I still think that at this point, a much more important member of 77 is everything I've warned us to stick to the agenda. Let's move on, Honorary Representative Zukan Helez, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5601	Thank you, Your Honor. Representatives of the Council of Ministers, this little remains, ladies and gentlemen. It is my special honor and pleasure to have the bosses present today or the top of one pillar of power, this legislative one, and here someone has said well, today is a very important session because we have three pillars of power, legislative, executive and this judicial or judicial one. I'll start from the beginning like he said to Tegeltija, I don't know how else to start, if he can't get out of the middle, he can't go back. You, Mr. Tegletija, or an institution whose head you are, have very broad powers and that's very good. I will remind the public, the VSTV appoints judges, prosecutors on all new ones, monitors their work, evaluates them, analyzes them, conducts education, means almost everything about judicial institutions, but therefore you have, you should have, a very large responsibility. When it comes to the appointment of the VSTV, no one has said, it is one broad range of people from where people come from, so if we originally go, one should answer to the Court of Justice of BiH, the other Prosecutor's Office of BiH, third cantonal prosecutors, cantonal courts, entity courts and prosecutors, the bar, and this Parliament has 6.6% of the shares, if we are going to do it through business, because it appoints one member of the VSTV so that we have little and no right, is that we are talking about this. Mr. Tegeltija, I think you've lost some kind of moral credibility first around that "Dreaming" affair. It's one video that has seen the entire world's public, now the system of communication is so widespread, so powerful that everyone sees it. And now, since this is, it's good to chair that you put this thing together, put it into one point, now I'm asking you, Mrs. Tadić, so I respect you as a lady, as a mother, a wife, uh, ask you and answer me for a pay phone – did you have the possibility after that "Pottow" affair to order Mr. Tegeltija's arrest? And second, my particular question when it comes to the arrest and your intelligence, I'm pretty much a layman in this area like most people who have ended something else, is it, not lawyers, I ask you – did you have any authority and if you are not, why didn't you arrest Mr. Milorad Dodik when he attacked the state integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina? You have a member there, I'll remind you, a similar situation was in Catalonia, a similar arrangement, all those who had mass, led mass protests, led the process of severing Catalonia from Spain, were arrested or brought proceedings against them. You don't have, I don't know, are you aware of what responsibility you have? The man, if he continues like this, will lead to the conflict of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are people who love this country and there's an imminent conflict. If you don't arrest him, and that 34 continues to work, you'll have a historical responsibility for it. And I want you to answer me for the pay phone when it comes to that. You said in your address, Mrs Tadić, that you were pleased, that the excellent results of the organized crime department, especially when it comes to drugs, human trafficking and corruption. I think it's there, that there are the smallest results, the worst and that the perception of the public is the most sensitive. When it comes to corruption here and crime, I've read, the highest percentage of processed people is petty crime, theft of wood, petty drug dealers. The theft of wood, you lead as an economic crime. Ask, I ask you, what about the "Pandora“ affair, and I want you to answer me, in which they are again covered – Milorad Dodik, Dragan Čović and ricket Sulejman Tihić, who weighs over a billion marks? Is this country only for small people, for ordinary people to process and exercise justice? Also, I want to remind you, and also to draw attention, that the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina are involved in all of this. You today have criminals from Croatia who have fled the procession, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina are media stars. I think the one called Mamić, who runs from the Croatian judiciary, has no stronger media in Bosnia and Herzegovina that he was not a guest. And that's proof that we're a highly corrupt society. Not to mention Kutle hiding out there in Kupres, Curkovic around Livna, etc. All of it, people run where there's fertile soil for criminals. Also, I want to say, uh, he mentioned, I mean, Mr. Mehmedović, about the investigation, the start of the investigation starts with the MUPs and there are quite unprofessional people. That investigation, the first statement, directs the course of the investigation. Why don't you hire or graduate lawyers out there who'll do it or graduate criminals, there's a lot of it on the bureaus as much as you want, usually people do it in front of pensions who have some courses and, uh, there's a first mistake and it goes in the wrong direction or even locally, is, uh, family relationship or what I know, in small areas. Also, let's say the Justice Organization, Mr. Tegeltija, in the Middle Bosnian Canton, the prosecution is in the center of Travnik. Every morning, prosecutors go to Kiseljak, Bugojno and Eggs. The prosecutor from Bugojna goes to work in Travnik in the morning, then after two hours he returns to Bugojno to court and goes back to Travnik, both to Jajce and Kiseljak. I was counting, two prosecutors on an annual level are excess, we pay them for nothing, when you calculate fuel, logs, transportation, and everything else, so why don't you change the law and the prosecutors be in those places where the court is, just like the judges, to cut the cost. I know that's an excuse, uh, like we wouldn't be biased, etc. I think VSTV has to answer to someone. This choice is not bad, but it should be the president and two deputies, to confirm them by Parliament, means that they are chosen by the VSTV among themselves and confirmed by one or both of Parliament's homes. Also, the chief prosecutor is right when she says – I do not have any ingenuity on the cantonal prosecutions etc. Parliament should elect the chief prosecutor, the chief prosecutor should appoint everyone else and then respond to Parliament, but it should be done by a two-thirds majority and also by a position and opposition. So it wouldn't have happened to Mr. Tegeltija if you were going to a party's political gatherings, it's not good that it's just an entity, that only Republika Srpska and that's Mrs. Tadić saying that it's a totalitarian system we only had one, now we have three totalitarian systems where political powers control everything, and unfortunately the judiciary [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5602	Thank you very much. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5603	Mr. Chairman, the violation of your Rules of Procedure. Therefore, a specific member, you are violating the Rules of Procedure, Article 79, all (2), which says – that the chairman of the House may warn a MP who, by his conduct or speech, does not respect the order and provisions of the House, etc. I respond to Mr. Elez's exposure, which is extremely inappropriate, addressing the representatives of the highest authorities here, in a very ugly way, implies the need to arrest a Serbian member of the presidency, the arrest of a legitimately elected representative of a nation in the highest, let's say, executive body of this state. Mr Zukan Elez, when I was in my discussion, I expected, excuse me, a stream like this, if you don't have the guts to call for the arrest of someone who says this when they say they're doing something without any explicit or implicit recognition of the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in relation to the decisions of the High Representative, don't ask you to have the courage then, it's hypocritical that you have the nerve to call for a member, a Serb member of the Presidency, as said a colleague, a person who has won the most legitimate number of votes since the election in this country. Secondly, there's something else I want to tell you about, because I expect you to react. The complete reaction, which has followed and which you are calling upon, has followed because of the derogation of the constitutional framework and because of what the Constitutional Court is doing, which the presidents of other parties, which you also do not have the courage to mention, call an explicit mechanism that needs to be done here, I mean the Constitutional Court. It is extremely incorrect and I ask you to chair the SNSD Club if this rhetoric continues, we will leave the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5604	Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5605	Mrs Ursać, because if I am Elez and you are Ursać, or ovaković, like this, ovaković, okay. Look, if you're defending the character and the part of your president, I remember a little bit when it was done at those times when I taught the staff, wearing a hat and a five-pointer, and we had to, and I respected that man and my family was, but he was doing well, and he was good to all the peoples. That you have to defend your president, that's your problem. Where you're right, and I forgot to say, thank you, I also invite you, any Bosniak politician who violates state integrity, and there are them, arrest him, you have the support of the ordinary honest world trust me, you have the support and most MPs here, and you, uh, well, Lovrinović is not there, is whether, and you have to defend, I, when you need me, will shut up if it is to be on the list again and to pass. You're a very dear representative to me and no problem for me to mention if there's a minus that for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5606	Stevandić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5607	I'd like to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 77. - an MP or other participant in the debate may only talk about a matter to be discussed in accordance with the established agenda. 36 I don't see Mr. Dodik's arrest proposal on the agenda. I know it's you or someone else on the permanent agenda, but this assembly isn't, and if you want to turn the debate around in that direction, then we're going to get into some kind of extremist bickering and don't do that, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In North Korea alone, one politician will be ordered by an prosecutor to arrest another politician, and this is not yet North Korea and don't make us here North Korea, and don't let the assembly session be, colleague Kojović mentioned something about the College, shoes, what is called or a military call to the Prosecutor's Office, but rather, objectively discuss what is the problem and don't let us turn away from the agenda, chairing, please, Article 77.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5608	Helez, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5609	Mrs. Bursać, this is right now, I appreciate you more, you are still a member of this party. And this gentleman, who this Dodik feeds him to rotten bananas, well, let me tell him, it's been a long time since what's in North Korea, so we can't talk. You, if you have to report that you let me, for God's sake, tell someone that your president is being arrested, I don't care. Any member of the SDP to do that, I'll say it. No more of that. The fact that you're getting together a little bit and you're praising each other, so you come over there and you have to get all the presidents, and I understand that, but don't make us, there are people here who have nothing to do with Dodik. Don't make us think like you do. Anyone who violates the integrity of this state, I call on the prosecutor to arrest him and that's the prosecutor's task. Who else wants to know if there's anyone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5610	All right, let's get back to the agenda. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5611	Mr. Chairman, again this 79th position (2). I really ask you to try to react, but on time to MPs when they use completely inappropriate words. This time, Mr. Helez is really very wrong about Mr. Stevandić, and he's completely out of the picture and everything. However, Mr. Helez, I have remained in your debt, I have no need, perhaps you, have left it in your inheritance and perhaps some political genetics to account for some leaders. I don't, but I have an objective concern, if you're calling today, I don't know, that Mr. Dodik is being arrested, so tomorrow you'll be arresting me too, or this one, I don't know, Mrs. Čolo, I'm sorry for being you, you're in my sight, so where do you get the right to do it as a politician? I'm telling you again, you have no right to say that the nakarada of this system is a product of the judicial system, a product of inappropriate and unseen in Europe of the international community's actions. And you're right, here you go, no problem, you can arrest me, you can call me, I don't know what. Please, here we are, once again chairing to get back into the frames or, here we are, looking for a break now, because this goes where it doesn't need to go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5612	I agree, but every correction of the wrong allegation comes out of the box, four times I am warning all MPs that we are sticking to the agenda, the Code of Conduct, the culture of dialogue, not individually, but all together, and here and for the fifth time I invite you to remain in the context of a culture of dialogue without any insult and solely on the basis of arguments. This is, of course, the House of Representatives, a representative has the right to freely speak his mind, but without insulting the personality of another representative or anyone else. Stevandić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5613	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This time I advertise Article 79(5) point (a) insult of MPs and others present. So, indeed, anyone can afford to speak uncivilized words, to represent their incompetence, but they should still do so in a place that is not public, where they are not his colleagues. They're rotting bananas and something like that, it's not for Parliament, it's for cafes, maybe. I'm going to pray to the chairman once again, I'm very keen on many things, I've never thought to insult someone and tell them the things you say and I never thought to ask the prosecutor to arrest my political opponents or use this pay phone to humiliate and insult anyone. Anyway, if you're the chairman of the House agreeing that this is the right thing to do, it's no problem at all, but then it's not Parliament, it's a bar. If you want to destroy the integrity of this House, then go to insults, make a harangu of justice here, let's fight with prosecutors and judges and make a complete mess. Or we'll discuss how Bog commands, make suggestions, say what's wrong, and eventually we'll come up with some result by voting. I repeat once again, I have both advertised members of the Rules of Procedure which are decadently correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5614	I've done it five times, you only two. So I repeat again. Sanja Vulić, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5615	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advocating Article 27 (e) where you take away and give the right words and I just need to say to my colleague, Helez, in my opinion, has called here to retaliate the Serbian member of the presidency. As for me personally, for me, Milorad Dodik is not that Tito, he is a god and I have no need to justify myself to anyone, but, please, the Chairman for peace, whether you are leading or not... and another thing, to tell you the chairman.... I.... was.... at the previous session or the previous...... warned that if you are in any ugly way called representatives from Republika Srpska..... was it Željka Cvijanović, Radovan Višković, Milorad Dodik, anyone, that I would be extremely behave, not in the way that it suits women and ladies, but extremely uncivilised, because such rhetoric is an uncivilised rhetoric. I have absolutely the right to say this, because I am the only woman in Republika Srpska who has passed a defined legal censorship and won over fifteen and a half thousand votes, and I do not allow in such an ugly way to be spoken nor to be called to retaliate either President Dodik, nor his family, nor anyone here, nor to count blood cells to politicians from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we can't live together, Mr. Helez, you are, here's an experienced asset, give 38 some sort of a solution, and don't call for retribution. As far as we're concerned in Republika Srpska, Milorad Dodik is more than Tito to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5616	I agree, but I repeat again, from replica to replica we are entering a new problem. What you just said is for all those who have religious feelings desecration, for me personally it's desecration, that man is Bog. So you see how different we can interpret what is said in different ways. We must respect everyone’s political and religious and human feelings. Let's move on, it can't be Mr. Helez's third replica. We're going to a discussion, Enver Bijedić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5617	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. As the chairman said, this is where the debate on VSTV is being held and I think there are enough topics to discuss, without being distracted by some inappropriate comments. The VSTV is primarily responsible for the choice of judges and prosecutors and here, in a practical sense, and ceases their jurisdiction. I have no intention of, of course, amnesty of responsibility, but practically that's how it happens. Of course, if the choice of candidates for judicial and prosecutorial functions could be said a lot, and there would be a question, of course, for Mr. Tegelti – by which criteria people are admitted to office in the judiciary and why is it serving testing if it happens, and I personally know a candidate who is on four VSTV tests, who are very difficult and demanding, even says that it is in the rank of a judicial exam, this candidate was first-placed three times, he was second-placed and not admitted, and the candidates from the seventh, tenth and twelveth places were accepted? So, why test if someone who's only 12 is going to be admitted and so on? But there are even more serious things that citizens should know about. Citizens have the right to know that in our judicial system there is an office dealing with sanctioning the prosecutor's poor work, and this office is called the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office, UDT, for short, submits its reports to the VSTV president, Mr Tegeltija. I, as a state representative, want to open up to the citizens now and, of course, to my colleagues to ask – what kind of UDT reports does Mr. Tegeltija submit? The second question – what are the numbers and what is the statistics, that is, how did the VSTV in charge of Mr. Tegeltija evaluate these reports? The third question - how many prosecutors from all the prosecutions in our country were sanctioned during certain periods? Fourthly, how much is a percentage of prosecutors sanctioned in relation to the total number of prosecutors, how much has been sanctioned? Fifth - How much did the prosecutors in a certain way sanction against the number of applications received for the work of certain prosecutors? The sixth question - how much did some prosecutors of the D.A. spend money, this is very important because no one has mentioned a single word of this yet, the taxpayers' money on procedures that ended with unfounded detentions and acquittals? The seventh question – does the negative data on the damages made by irresponsible prosecutors and prosecutors affect the existing assessment system and should this assessment system be changed? I've heard that in the former Yugoslavia there was a very effective evaluation system and is there something like this in place today? All of these, therefore, are questions to which the public expects answers, since more and more inscriptions and comments in the public are on how and how many individual failures have caused damage to the budget, i.e. how unfounded have certain persons been persecuted after which they have collected damages from the budget, i.e. to be more precise, such damages or costs have been paid by the citizens of this country, or 39 of us as taxpayers? No Niko has the right to treat taxpayers' taxpayers' money in BiH arrogantly, nor prosecutors, and I therefore expect the authorities to answer these questions. We are all witnessing that the public is increasingly bitter at the BiH judiciary, and especially at the prosecution. Therefore, this discussion and issues are the most focused on prosecutors and prosecutors, because it must be acknowledged that the courts are a more positive point within our judicial system. I've been the victim of an attempt to mount a judicial prosecution myself, but I won't talk about it, let others talk about it. I will also mention today the recent case in Tuzla when two police officers of the Tuzla Canton Police Department were detained, and on the orders of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office just because they dared do their job. To be more specific, they brought in the husband of the cantonal prosecutor's deputy, because they assessed at some point that there was a basis for detention. After that, three days later and an attempt to extort the desired testimony from another colleague, the arrest of these two officers who tried to just do their job. The public was embittered by the behaviour of Detective of the Federal Police Administration in Tuzla, as well as the behaviour of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of the Tuzla Canton. The public has clear and concrete questions for this case, and this is the following – how and in what way is it justified to bring in members of the Tuzla Canton MUP and what is this material evidence? Why are the lawsuits taken by the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office and why isn't this the D.A.'s Office excluded, since it's the wife of one of the prosecution's executives? Why did the Cantonal Prosecution in Tuzla go public with sharp and predetermined public statements in which they commented on the details of the investigation since it was generally known that the investigation was a secret? I would like to remind just one detail from a statement by the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in which it is unequivocally said - that the prosecution expects a report on the work done by the Federal Police Administration that prejudges what kind of report it will be or that I will be banal to the FUP publicly determines what kind of report it must deliver. On what legal basis has it been dug up by private police officers who have only done their job, since it is also known that the prosecution has provided their personal data from their facesbook profiles on earlier events and dating back to a decade ago and who have nothing to do with their treatment of the wife of the Cantonal Prosecutor's wife? Since the Court of Justice in Tuzla has already made a decision that respects the defence of police officers and where it has been found that there is no reasonable doubt that this officer is illegally arrested publicly – who will be responsible for this act of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office and who will be responsible when tomorrow and who will be responsible when this police officer sues the state for unlawful detention and detention, violation of reputation and mental pain? Does anyone in this country want to deal with these very important issues, i.e. the debauchery of taxpayers' money by the unresponsibly responsible for the suspended prosecutors? I would ask the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office again for the end of this address when it will finally begin with the disciplinary persecution of prosecutors who waste people's money in apparently ordered and sharped processes? I note that the UDT does not only serve to react after the arrest of judges and prosecutors in criminal proceedings. The UDT has a clear responsibility to act in disciplinary matters which are separate from criminal proceedings and should be kept in mind, because somehow the public gets the impression that UDT reacts only after criminal proceedings or perhaps the public is not sufficiently informed of such proceedings. However, we want to see a more transparent and more concrete UDT approach towards irresponsible judges and prosecutors in a disciplinary sense. I myself have been able to see individual judges and prosecutors strongly comment on political developments and political persons, so I am interested – has UDT ever punished such judges and prosecutors for inappropriate behaviour on public services, public networks? We also had a public announcement of the prosecutor's threat, and even the chief prosecutors, to the people who were persecuting the prosecutions they were handling. Has UDT ever punished such behaviour by prosecutors in which, by my free judgment, there are even elements of criminal responsibility? Has I'm so glad it's ringing now, now I'm going to get more on the line, there are examples that prosecutors directly get involved in political processes, and that they threaten to arrest individuals if they run for office. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And even worse, there are examples when the D.A.'s office sends messages as well as who they can make coalition contracts with. Also, for the end I want the public to know that soon there will be a competition for the selection of the main disciplinary prosecutor at the VSTV and I want to draw attention to the public and all relevant domestic and international institutions to pay particular attention to this selection process and to the criteria they will take into account in this election. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And of course, if it takes a number of employees to work in the D.A.'s office, let it be made possible, there are enough resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5618	Thank you. Adil Osmanović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5619	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of judicial institutions, media, according to the information I have so far, this is the first time that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives holds a thematic session with agenda – a debate on the situation in the BiH judiciary. After we scheduled that session in public, there was a lot of criticism, a discussion, whether it needed such a session, what it was leading to, and what results it could obtain. First of all, I feel it is necessary here, in this House to conduct a debate on the situation in the judiciary, it is something that we all have to bear responsibility for repairing the situation that has apparently entered certain problems. Respecting each other, where we can conduct a discussion in Bosnia and Herzegovina to improve the situation in the judiciary if not in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Whether the situation in the judiciary can be improved without the participation of this House, the Council of Ministers and without the active participation of the bearer of the highest judicial institutions. We need to respect each other, we need to open up the discussion and see with the arguments here how to improve that condition, which we have already heard there are certain problems. Since this was the first session, it was to be expected that there would be this kind of discussion of sharp and debate. I am here, and there will be a proposal from the SDA Parliament Club, that at least twice a year we should submit a report on the work of the VSTV, to analyse what we have done, what moves we have made, of course respecting impartiality, the independence of the judiciary maximum. I don't want to call anyone here individually, but I can't help but, as a colleague of Lepić, I don't touch the statement of the VSTV President, Mr Tegeltija, after this thematic session of the House of Representatives has been called, where he said he didn't expect much of this debate today, it will be more destructive than what constructive discussions are really, like, problematic for me. And you and we are public figures, we have to get used to criticism, critics have to be argued, and we all need to take some lessons out of these criticisms. Today's debate on the issue of justice should first and foremost be led towards what needs to be done in order to make necessary and significant progress in the area of improving the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as defined by the BiH Constitution. Today's debate should offer an answer as to how our country's judicial system can serve citizens better through an independent, impartial and responsible judiciary. Then, this discussion today should provide an answer to what is meant today in the democratic world under the rule of law. The answer 41 is quite clear, the rule is the right system, it is necessary that all its elements, that all its elements are integrated and work together as separate parts and this is a system and this Parliament is a system. Nothing, like I said, can be fixed in the judiciary just if this high house doesn't work. You yourself pointed out that you need to amend some of the laws under which you work, you need to bring some new ones, so without this House, you can't fix the situation in the judiciary. The rule of law means that no one, but nobody is above the law. What concerns all of us, as counterpart Mehmedović said, on both the right side and the centre and the executive is the following, each public action must be subject to responsibilities, to unlawful treatment and irregularity should be answered by appropriate corrective measures and sanctions, for all, for all. We are public figures, we answer to the public, and we must bear responsibility for our actions. What we have here today, looking into each other's eyes, we have to admit that trust in our judiciary has been lifted. There is widespread opinion in the state that some judicial decisions have been politicised over the past years. The lack of trust in the judiciary is particularly negatively reflected through the VSTV. Today, most often VSTV is perceived by the public of BiH as a centre of inalienable power serving the interests of certain political powers, and then VSTV members are perceived as untouchable and above the law. Of course, some of the procedures of the VSTV members and individual statements of the VSTV members favoured the creation of such a public change. What is necessary to do, and this is VSTV, needs to be seriously reformed and radical changes in behavior. The election procedure of the VSTV members must be revised. When we talk about the necessity of reforming the justice system in BiH, we cannot stress what the chief prosecutor said and said, the necessity of establishing the BiH Supreme Court with competencies throughout the BiH area, which is also a recommendation from the Venice Commission since 2012. I'll brief on the report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and 2018. During this reporting period, the BiH Prosecutor's Office led and managed by Mrs Gordana Tadić, who was appointed by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council on 28 September 2016 as acting prosecutor. The Prosecution Act stipulates that the chief prosecutor has four deputies and secretaries, due to his departure to other duties, we saw here in the report, that he remains today, that only one deputy remained during this reporting period, which, of course, made it difficult for the prosecution to work successfully. Let me just say a few things about the Special War Crimes Department. The report states that 28 prosecutors, 34 professional associates – lawyers, 29 professional associates, investigators, etc. were deployed in this department in 2017. If we keep in mind that 25 years have passed since the end of the war in BiH, justice for victims has not yet been achieved and lost to importance. Bosnia and Herzegovina is seriously struggling with a delay in time, especially when it comes to the most severe cases of war crimes. I will Citirać Bakir Hasečić, president of the Association of Women of War Victims – The victims of war are not satisfied with the number of charged and confirmed charges, especially when it comes to acts of war rape and sexual abuse, where witnesses are eyewitnesses and murders. Biology has done its thing, people are dying, and they never even made it to court. The fact is also that no genocide indictment has ever been filed in Srebrenica, which best shows that the prosecution's focus is on less mass criminals and less responsible persons for war crimes. Most of the charges were brought against one person, e.g. Four war crimes indictees were not available to BiH judicial authorities, as they are somewhere in Serbia-Canada refugee And let me just file an analysis of Britain's judge, Džoane Korner, formerly more prosecutors of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, who recommends that the charges be brought only to meet the prosecutor's code, not to cleave charges, to raise against multi-ranking perpetrators, to transfer less sensitive cases to entity justice. [[the speaker is warned on time]] According to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the norm is 159%, the quality of 94%, and 80% of the convictions are condemned. It's about quality, not quantity 42 charges. I've got here, and then I'll deliver some conclusions on behalf of the SDA MPs' Club that I'm not reading them right now. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5620	Thank you. Nermin Nikšić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say, at first, that I am sorry that we agreed to bring these two discussions together on these points, uh, and here I fully agree with the Attorney General, that it is also necessary to separate that one situation is in the judiciary, and another information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, and probably we should have discussed it separately. Because of the shortness of time, then you're talking about two topics, I'll try to be as fast as I can, so I've been trying to figure it out. I would say that this feeling was particularly expressed to me after, that we should have separated after the opening statements of the presidents of the VSTV and the chief prosecutor. Many colleagues here talked about the rule of law, and then as usual, they divide between us again, each from their own corner. Those who defend this situation say that we do not have jurisdiction and should not get involved in this, and yet those who would like to change the state of defence of BiH's largest legislative body, to regulate relations, among other things, and in the judiciary. I think the truth is usually somewhere in between. I've spoken before, but I have to say something again, I was an actor in justice reform, and then in the Federation Parliament I voted against, because the people of the judiciary just turned my attention to what devastating consequences they would have, and here are the people that were right. However, here we have experienced today that the chief prosecutor is giving us a lecture on how she went through the reform, and in these benches there are those who have not passed through the reform and who decide on the report, so there are some who have held back from the commission. Well, I guess reform is about the judiciary and that, and they could've gone through it, so... what can the MPs do about it? I have to say that I share in one piece, and I don't have any high opinion on the work of this House, especially I'm not proud of what happened in the year of the blockade, and I don't mind hearing a critical court about our work, about our work. However, what we need to know, including the people in the judiciary, is the only one who gives the court on the work of MPs are citizens in the elections. I'm also not happy with the choice of those citizens, to understand each other, but that's the case. Besides, MPs can also be voted by people from the judiciary. If that's the case, then we shouldn't even be challenged by the right that once we're elected by citizens we can talk and discuss all matters of state's functioning. I must say that in their opening statement, they have actually shown how much we need to discuss the situation in the judiciary, how much we need judicial reform, because it is quite obvious how far away we are from the rule of law and how far away we are from an independent judiciary. I always want to stress how safe, as in all other structures, there are honorable exceptions. Unlike those of us who judge citizens, gentlemen, the gentlemen of the judiciary judge themselves. They use their grades to eliminate the insubordinate and insubordinate by giving them a lower grade than they give to others who are similar and obedient. I had already talked about the example of the previous High Court and Prosecutorial Council's Office, when I called as prime minister a judge who called in the ruling for the provisions of the Constitution that had been amended ten years earlier by amendments, and then after three months was rewarded by that VSTV promotion to the Federation Supreme Court. 43 What is the relationship of the judiciary towards this House that is best seen from the statement of Mr. Tegeltija, which he says, we have decided to appear. So obviously you didn't need such a decision when you responded to a political gathering organised in Lukavica, and an explanation of how you represent the RS in the VSTV. It's just the biggest standard of independence and impartiality. Is there then a representative of the Federation in the VSTV and how can they trust each other to decide on each other? Is it high, in cases of high or low corruption that we've heard here and some reports, numbers that I don't know what they mean and that includes this case so-called. Frightening? Is this processed by the prosecution or has it ended with a decision within the VSTV? So, back in the closed circle. In that closed circle, did the prosecutor who prosecuted someone ever answer and then prove that there was no basis? Sadly, there is hardly such an example, since it is usually about obedient ones who are then protected from responsibility. What does that closed circle look like? The High Court and Prosecutor's Council comprises five judges, elected one from the BiH Court of Justice, one from the Federation Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of the RS, one from the Federation's cantonal and municipal courts, one from the RS district and basic courts. Five prosecutors re-election among themselves in the BiH prosecutor's office, one at the federal prosecutor's office, the RS prosecutor's office, one in the cantonal prosecutor's office, one in the district attorney's office. One judge or prosecutor elected by the District Justice Commission, two lawyers each from each Republika Srpska and Federation bar, one member elected by the House of Representatives and one member elected by the Council of Ministers. That is why I think it is necessary to change the situation in which, according to the chief prosecutor, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council is only relevant for assessing the work of the Prosecutor's Office, which my colleague, Peđa Kojović, will state later. I really think that the chief prosecutors should be elected by parliaments depending on the levels they are named for. Pribe's report on the conclusions next to everything else says, so we don't have to conclude people here have made an analysis and concluded – the VSTV needs a thorough reform, a radical change of behaviour. WESTV is widely regarded as a power that does not account for anyone, in the hands of those who serve the interests of the network of political patrons and influences. As a central institution that needs to ensure the independence and functioning of the BiH judiciary, the legal framework and the work of the VSTV must be significantly improved in order to better serve the interests of the judiciary and citizens, the completion of the quote. And now we here have to say how great the situation is out there, like people said, they look great. It seems to me that the VSTV has also affected false image syndrome and alienation from reality, again honoring the exceptions that have been asked to seriously consider these, this report. I would like to know what will be the strategy of restoring the confidence of citizens who, according to all statistics, have been drastically violated. According to the latest polls, citizens' confidence in judicial institutions from 41 fell to 19%. The chief prosecutor says that young people from BiH do not go for it, and I am telling you that, besides everyone else, it is certainly one of the reasons. What kind of message do we send them if everything after each other from the key affairs ends with an acquittal or no trial at all? On the other hand, we've had the opportunity to hear, from the chief prosecutor, that she won't succumb to anyone's pressures, God Bog she has on that and on that field and on that, my absolute support, you'd be overjoyed if that were the case. I honestly don't believe that, even if you're serious and I want to believe you, I don't think that's the case with some of your colleagues. Unfortunately, we live in a country burdened with war past, so we have a story about the processing of war crimes, and that the victims are the only ones in you, as you said, who see satisfaction and hope. So you're saying that it's slowing down the resolution of these processes, where we see that the VSTV has appointed prosecutors who have a history of war and now convince me that victims of such people should expect satisfaction, justice and satisfaction. In the end, very often I have had the opportunity to listen to the parliaments and directors of the police and prosecutors who promise affairs and arrests, I find your exposure incorrect here, lift your finger, because somehow I understand, tell you what you want but to know the sweetest laughs who laughs last, and I can process you all, so watch 44 of what you will. And I think that you should process each and every one of us if there are elements, not discipline with any threat that you can and not just from us, but all those who come into trouble because conflicts with legislation. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Finally, I strongly support your position that we need the Supreme Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina and if today's debate would result in a symbiosis, as Mr Tegeltija, the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, with the aim of forming a Supreme Court of BiH, which would ensure the establishment of judicial practice, the rule of law, respect for human rights for all BiH citizens, would be supreme for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5622	Thank you. Agent Alma Čolo, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5623	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all MPs, all members of the Council of Ministers and, of course, respected representatives of the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you for coming to this session today, and I supported this conclusion that we are discussing the situation in the judiciary, not my proposal, but I supported it primarily because of the report of experts submitted in Brussels on December 5th, which marked problems in establishing the rule of law in BiH. This establishment of the rule of law concerns not only you, but also this Parliament and our obligations that we must carry out and to which we are bound by the European Court of Human Rights rulings. We have a lot of work to do, but, of course, a lot of work needs to be done in the department of justice. And by analysing what was written in the media about this thematic session, I was wondering if we as parliamentarians have the right to discuss justice if we go from the principle of government's trinition to legislative, executive and judicial, whether the law gives us the opportunity to discuss justice. Well, of course it gives us, the legislative authority is the authority elected by the citizens and it appoints an executive power that is also independent, and the judicial authority is the authority that appoints itself, but this Parliament is passing laws that regulate the judiciary. This Parliament passed the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, passed the Law on the Court of BiH, passed the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, passed procedural laws in the area of criminal, litigious justice and, of course, should discuss weaknesses in the justice system as shown in the Pribe report. I don't consider that calling for some responsibility, I consider it an exchange of views, that we exchange opinions and try to improve the justice system. This is because I am also the head of the delegation in the Council of Europe and now at the January meeting of the Council of Europe, which makes up parliaments, 47 Member States of the Council of Europe discussed the judiciary in Poland. Poland is a member of the European Union and members of the Council of Europe, and justice is being discussed in the Strasbourg Parliament in the Republic of Poland. So I think it's better that we discuss justice here first, because tomorrow may happen to us based on the Pribe report that in the Council of Europe we have to defend why we haven't fixed things in the judiciary, and we could all have done it together. And then, uh, I asked myself another question -- are we competent? Because some self-called political analysts, who appeared in the media, said Parliament is not competent to discuss the judiciary. First of all, I don't know who gives the status of a political analyst, whether there's a school for it, I don't know. So they say: We are not competent. So then I analyzed whether we were really competent, so here are the professors at law schools, here are the masters of legal science, here are the doctors of legal science, the law professors, here sits Justice Minister 45 in front of the Council of Ministers, there are professional people who can help us work together to create some legal solutions, to fix the situation in the judiciary. And that's why I think this debate is useful and everything my colleagues have said I think is very useful. But I don't understand the original discredition by the chief prosecutor of me as members of the Constitutional Commission, I really don't understand. In order for the others to know what this is about, I am the President of the Constitutional Commission of this House, I was elected to direct elections and the Constitutional Commission is one of the most important committees of this House and the prosecutor said that those who have not passed the reform are members of the Constitutional Commission and decide on the Prosecutor's Report. In order to avoid confusion, I voted on the Constitutional Legal Commission for the Prosecutor's Report, because I support the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and I think people are doing well. I generally think that at lower levels is the poor processing of corruption, of the 377 prosecutors in BiH, as many as there are at all levels, in 2018 we only had 216 cases where corruption ended up being charged. So, the report for corruption ended up being charged, and that's less than one case per prosecutor, and I don't think it's enough, if we're a corrupt state, and the perception is that we are. Another thing why I think, why I didn't pass the reform. I did not pass the reform as a prosecutor, but later before the same visok and Judicial Council in 2005, I was elected as the best candidate for the chief disciplinary prosecutor, the first disciplinary prosecutor in BiH, and then it was the same High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Secretariat invited me up to the Queen of Jelena's room and told me to sign a statement that I was giving up my candidacy, that it was better for me, because I was once a member of the political party. At the time, I wasn't, even when it was a reform of the judiciary, I left the U.S.A. so it wouldn't be an obstacle to doing my job, because I loved the prosecution job and I really appreciate it and now this job, and they invited me to sign a statement and I signed it in 2005. I'm later applying for the Constitutional Court of the Federation and I'm going through all the High Court and Prosecutor's procedure, and I don't know why you needed my accreditation. I appreciate your job, but it looks like it's in the courtroom, when you want to discredit a court witch or a witness, you hit him on the weakest, what hurts him the most. And I'd ask you, I was a student, one of the best law school students in Sarajevo, I was born in this town, I ended up at 22 years of law school, and I was certainly a good prosecutor, I was a candidate for the U.S. Attorney General, only my previous membership in the U.S.A. led me to find myself unsuitable for a call, re-calling a prosecutor. And you know what was in that procedure, you don't have the right to appeal, do you as a lawyer think that's okay? In 2002, we entered the Council of Europe, the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees everyone that they have the right to a legal remedy, and I had no right to a legal remedy. And now I'm sitting here and I'm doing this job with honor and I think it's in the interest of the citizens of this country that you, Madam Prosecutor, process all of which you think are criminals, that they are thieves, that they are corrupt, to prevent illegal activities from being done in this country. I support you in that if you're going to do this job from your office, not from this pay phone and without the presence of cameras and without the release of judgments. We had a lot of arrests with cameras, and later we had acquittals and compensations paid to people who were unjustly held in custody and were unjustly charged, and later legally released. Your report shows that the quality of the indictments is excellent, the quality of your accusations, I've looked at everyone, at all levels is 97%, so there's no liberating and refuting judgments much. You understand me as lawyers, there's no verdict where people get rid of the charges and there's no convictions where the charges are dropped, so in 97% of the cases you have a judicial, judgmental verdict and that's great, that's great. But please, process everyone that we're not all equal, process all the ones that are suspected of committing any crime, from murder to high corruption that you're saying. But you're not here alone, of course there are all these 377 prosecutors in BiH. 46 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5624	Thank you. Dear Representative Safet Softić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5625	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable MPs, dear guests. Let me, first of all, direct the expressions of welcome to our guests today at this session, given that I appreciate the presence of court and prosecutorial authorities today and I believe that what we have on the agenda of this extraordinary session is one of the most likely most important topics this Parliament is discussing over a long period of time. I support the full approach they have imposed or tried to impose on the chairman and his deputy, Mr Radmanović, in the beginning with the intention of trying as much as possible to benefit the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its citizens with as little of these charms and arguments as possible, which we could hear during this debate, and as far as we can, among other things, the formulation that we have heard this looks like a bar, that this looks like a conference, etc. We all need to be aware today of the fact that we are sitting in the legislative body in which the laws of this country are passed which, among other things, apply to the judiciary sector what we are discussing today. While that is the case, we have heard a lot of our exhibitors today who have debated, which are speakers, what MPs, who have said that today in this room they are sitting together three pillars of government, therefore, executive, legislative and judicial authority and my understanding of this topic today, these sessions are that these three authorities are not opposing each other, they are not conflicting, they are relying on one another and it is actually a basic lesson in this debate today. But I can't really understand if it is so that the Minister of Justice at the Council of Ministers has more important work to do today and not sit here with us, not to listen to this debate about what has to be said about the judiciary, and yes, here we see that this left side when the executive power is almost empty, except for these few deputies sitting upstairs, respecting the fact that the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Pivić, is here. I really cannot accept that there is a more important job for the justice minister today, if he is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to sit here, and I think we registered his presence at the beginning of the session. I appreciate that we should all individually contribute to this debate and what I consider important for this topic today is that with as little politics as possible, with fewer political stories we try to come up with some concrete results, and what I consider to be the two most important things or two most important corridors that need both judicial and legislative and executive powers to move are precisely all of these controversys that follow the work of the Court, follow the work of the Prosecutor's Office and all that is going on there. For a long time in public, therefore, there has been some controversy about this issue and the first thing that I want to point out today in this high House is actually the justification of this kind of judge and prosecutor that we have through the VSTV law, since we have really been able to see this way of electing judges and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina can't actually produce quality results in the judiciary because there are a number of anomalies in this system. Namely, I have my own experience when I'm talking about this, but I don't want to burden this high home with these things, I can only say that after two decades of being in the judiciary, my wife was forced to leave the judiciary precisely because of these things we're talking about. He did not allow me to understand and understand the fact that the BiH Prosecutor's Office names people who are starting their careers. I, therefore, became convinced 47 that there are people who are starting their internship in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Well, I guess the BiH Prosecutor's Office, I guess the BiH Court should be a place to be crowning for our judicial officers working in the judiciary, not to study business there and start their careers. There are, therefore, prosecutors among these 58 how many prosecutors have informed us that they have been admitted to the D.A.'s office without actually knowing that there is a strategy in this country to solve war crimes. So these are the things that were happening, the truth in the previous term, not in the context of this VSTV, but it's something that still as a controversy, therefore, exists in public and should really seriously consider how and in what way to choose those who are best, those who should have certain steps of municipal, cantonal, federal, entity and state level in their professional rise. In this case, it seems to me that both pears and apples have been mixed with us, that the appointing process is going quite controversial, that there is a lot of political, it seems to me, the impact on this whole process and I think that the Law on VSTV in this direction should really be dealt with urgently, not because of someone's personal needs or views, but because simply this system cannot produce a good judiciary. There's no good justice without good lawyers and good judges and prosecutors. I think in our society there is one quite enough number of such people to sit in such places. So that's one look at this. What I would single out as a second topic in what I'm talking about is the fact, let's just say, that of all the jobs that or the rare jobs that I can't do in my life is the prosecutor's job. I consider him very responsible, perhaps the most responsible in society, perhaps these people are the most responsible for what they do because the prosecution business means, in fact, despite high legal knowledge and a very high sensitivity to what you do, because you can actually ruin someone's reputation with your one decision, you can ruin someone's life, someone's family, so this, I call, therefore, that in the context of what we're talking about today, we are obliged to preserve everyone's dignity both in the debate and in what happens next. When it comes to this topic, and my view of it is, in fact, the absence of this Supreme Court in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Supreme Court, and I am really pleased, I was pleased today with the fact that I listened to the presentation of the chief prosecutor who supported the establishment of the BiH Supreme Court in her presentation simply because of the need for it. I would like to say just a few words in favour of what I am talking about, therefore, after all that can be heard at this session, and especially after what has been happening in the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina over the past few years, I would point to the findings that the Venice Commission made in its Opinion on Legal Security in 2012. Reminders for the sake of this, the Venice Commission stressed that judicial reform should be aimed at strengthening the two fundamental principles of rule of law, legal certainty and independence of the judiciary. In order for these principles to be effective, it is necessary to fulfil the following elements: 1. The legality which includes a transparent, responsible and democratic process of passing the law; 2. legal certainty; 3. ban on arbitraryness; 4. access to justice through an independent and impartial court, including judicial review of administrative acts; 5. respect for human rights and 6th prohibitions of discrimination and equality before the law. I believe that all of these elements would be covered and promoted by the establishment of a state-level Supreme Court. The role of the Supreme Court would primarily be to ensure respect for human rights and the rule of law throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, for 48 of its citizens without any discrimination. This would mean ensuring the uniformity of BiH's legal order, then unity or at least the consistency of judicial and prosecutorial systems. You all know that the decentralised legal and judicial system of Bosnia and Herzegovina leads not only to discrimination but also to unequal rights when it comes to citizens' access to justice, because a lack of clear rules leads to disagreements and conflicts arising from different legal order. This issue is a question of the realisation of the human rights of citizens of our country and must not be left to informal co-operation of judicial authorities that is of different intensity and scope anyway. What I'm talking about is not something on my wish list, but is specifically mentioned in 2012 as the conclusion of the Venice Commission. It has been repeated in a number of subsequent analyses finally with the 2012 report on the issues of the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, European Union expert Pribea, which calls for the opinion of the Venice Commission, thus in point 100. The report says this – in order to ensure legal certainty and uniform interpretation of the rules in different jurisdictions, most countries have a supreme court with powers for the whole country. This specific arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina with four judicial systems requires the establishment of a single judicial body for these needs. The Venice Commission recommended the establishment of the Supreme Court in 2012 and this is one of the numerous recommendations of the Venice Commission that Bosnia and Herzegovina has so far failed to respect, the end of the quote. I'd like to conclude Therefore, with the claim that the establishment of the BiH Supreme Court can solve a number of problems in the area of justice, as many of the advantages already mentioned would also give rise to judicial oversight over the work of all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina currently in place by the Constitutional Court of BiH. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5626	Thank you. Predrag Kojović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5627	I thank the chairman. I welcome, of course, everyone present in the O.R. since I first checked in. I believe that the opening statements by the presidents of the VSTV and the chief prosecutor and by those MPs who had any doubt about the usefulness of keeping this session removed, as I would say, that suspicion. The sitting, unfortunately, as I predicted at the College, was mostly spent on promoting certain political goals, forming a supreme court that had nothing to do with this subject, but is talking about establishing a single legal space and demanding that the presence of foreign judges be abolished, and of course to lamentate over the current system in the pavosuary that we have. The theme about VSTV, so I would say about the Attorney General's Office is already going through this Parliament at two, three last sessions through different agenda points which, too, had nothing to do with this subject, but here, I think if this was supposed to be some kind of group therapy, yes, as I would say, we all say something that is holding us back, I hope that... we are in these four hours how much you've predicted for this session, and now, since this time is running out that we've been planning for this session, I'd just like to say a few things. Perception, we live in a time where perception is very important and is often much more important than essence and reality, and that is the time we live in. I personally disagree and do not do well at such a time, but as I would say, it is inevitable. However, when it comes to the perception of the judicial system, it is about one thing entirely different. Perception of 49 judicial systems is as important as its essence and its rights of independence and is said in all judicial serious works dealing with justice systems, it is said that it is very important that the judicial system be independent, impartial and professional, but also that there is perception in society that it is impartial, objective and... This perception in a time in which people manipulate, as I would say, media and social networks and create perceptions of what they want, is absolutely disrupted and I think it is something that we should agree on, that the perception of the judicial system in the public of BiH has been violated. Research is a lot of things, sir... they work every year. I personally recommend to you, let's say, that every year research on our justice system is done by USAID because then you have one continuity, you can track it from 2012 every year as it moves, but I'm going to tell you around that in the last three years, the number of people, citizens, the public, is whether, who have a negative perception of our judicial system is stable to somewhere 2/3 of the respondents, the samples are, whether they have been done over 1,000, it's very, as I would say, professional statistical methods, but we, as I would say, live in a system that is generally absurd. We expect the judge or prosecutor to be impartial, independent and professional, not to take into account his sex, his age, his financial situation, the opinion of other people. That is why we appoint them, as I would say, to such mandates as we appoint them to, but we accept that one's ethnicity will affect the objectivity of his decision in some court procedure, and that, too, Mr. Softić, is one of the most important opinions of the Venice Commission when she commented on the proposed law of the VSTV, and your colleague Osmanović is now distributed by the benches of the amendment or some suggestion of the conclusion that, as I would say, the ethnic structure in our judicial system is balanced. So, as I'd say, you know, you can't have both goats and money. You have to decide or choose judges by what kind of knowledge they have, what kind of professionals they have, what percentage of cases they have, or you agree on these various criteria by which it is almost impossible to choose a judge today, and I warn you, that if you are now forced in this mandate to look for a person of a particular half who has these qualifications, who lives in a particular constituencies, that your choice in a country of 3 million people is extremely, extremely narrow and that this choice will certainly go to the detriment of professionalism in order to satisfy these other, allegedly more important, criteria. I'm probably wrong, my impression, my perception of all discussions is that there is dissatisfaction with the current judicial system, and I agree with my colleague, Softić, that the source of dissatisfaction and the source of what I think is the dysfunction of our judicial system in the way the executioners of judicial functions, i.e. prosecutors and judges are elected. And given that, I'd like to suggest certain conclusions. I would like to propose conclusions and hope that they are divided into all MPs, first of all, whether, once again, it is the conclusion that the Council of Ministers approaches amendments, amendments and additions to the Law on VSTV which should contain all the recommendations of the European Commission, the Venice Commission and the Pribe report and I believe that these amendments should go in the next direction, members who currently have the relevant advocacy chambers should be replaced by members from the order of the university professors of legal science, who, by the basis of a public competition, appoints the Parliamentary House of BiH. The question of the presence of a lawyer in our VSTV has been troubled many times. There is no doubt that the so-called users of the judicial system should be present, but it is quite certain that they should not be present to this extent that they can in some way influence the decision-making process. Of course, apart, we should do what was the first recommendation of the Venice Commission, which is to separate the VSTV into a high court and high prosecutorial council. Nowhere in Europe is this combination that judges and prosecutors sit in one council. Also, the main prosecutors at all levels of government should appoint the competent legislative authorities on a proposal from the High Prosecutor's Council, which would provide a list of qualified candidates, and the legislative bodies would appoint a constitutional majority, two-thirds majority, to prevent what we have now, and this is the influence of the House, a ruling coalition on the composition of bodies such as the VSTV, the Central Election Commission, meaning a two-thirds majority would be voted by such judges and I have always, of course, been a supporter that when you appoint someone to a function, he has at least the right to propose some of his closest associates, all the team with which he will work and these proposals of conclusions which, as I see that I will soon remain without time, are based on that principle. Deputy chief prosecutors at the state, entity, cantonal and district level, including Brčko Disktrikt, would appoint the chief prosecutor of the basic level from the list, from a list of several successful candidates who would establish a high prosecutorial council and also, of course, with prosecutors at the state, entity, cantonal and district level. I really hope that, that this will not be another conclusion that will remain, that will go to the Council of Ministers and disappear there in some black hole and never come back, but that it will appear, this, as I would say, as a serious proposal. I also wanted people from Parliament to participate in this document, because I believe that there are a lot of talk today about the division of power, there are some supporters here who consider that people sitting in legislative bodies should not propose and write laws, but that should be done by people who know it, who exercise executive authority. Something likely, in some book that collects absurd statements from parliaments all over the world, I believe that this one would be found, but I thought that the Council of Ministers should actually form from their own people from the cabinet, from the Justice Ministry, and from this legislative body a group that would work to draft a new law on VSTV. And just, as I would say, if I could finish, um, in 26 seconds, the concept that there are certain esnafi in some society that are able to edit themselves, I thought they died, as I would say, with socialist self-management, obviously they didn't. It is impossible in a political society to reach a truly independent body, because if you have even an independent body, who chooses it? Who chooses the organ that chooses this independent organ? And then, of course, you come to that logical sylogism that the country is standing on a turtle and that turtles are all, as I would say, but now that I'm not opening, as I say, that topic. That is why I believe in the principle of taking responsibility, when this House elects its chief prosecutor with 2/3 votes, that chief prosecutor has responsibility for this Parliament. When he chooses his associates, his decisions will also be reviewed on this legislative body. It's called in English – checks and balances, I couldn't find, as I would say, but it's a society where we live. Some people have discretionary rights and resources, and others have the right to control them. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And that's what's missing in our relationship so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5628	Dear Representative Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5629	Thank you, Chairman. Since my colleague Kojović partially touched the proposal for the conclusion of the Party of Democratic Action Club, I would only like to clarify, we have suggested that the attention of the members of the VSTV be drawn to take care of the national structure, the more concrete representation of the constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the chairman of the VSTV. This is a state of citizens and people and has always been taken care of by the national balance, of course, never at the expense of the ability. Thank you. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5630	Representative Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5631	Thank you, Chairman. What Mr. Osmanović said might be true if he did not aim and explicitly state three judicial positions, and we all know that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have three constituent peoples...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5632	Please turn off your cell phone. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5633	Thus, Mr. Osmanović, in his proposal, cited three judicial positions, and then said he should take care of the representation of the three constituent nations and did not mention the ostali, did not state the fourth position where it could be someone in the order of the others. So what he has just said is that this is a state of citizens and peoples, he has eliminated citizens with his own conclusion, eliminated everything but constituent peoples, because he explicitly cited three positions, three constituent peoples, so there is no room for others, and that is the typical policy that absolutely must not be a place in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remind you, Mr. Osmanović, we have court rulings in Strasbourg that speak exactly this. We have a judgment of the Strasbourg court that only I have come up with in the case of Pilav, who also speak of it. So I've done a lot more for the rights of the constitutive peoples by being Mr. Pilav's representative and resulting in such a verdict in Strasbourg than you're going to convince anyone that you're working with such a conclusion that, given its essence, it's really discriminatory if there's no others.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5634	Adil Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5635	Thank you, Chairman. I said this is the state of citizens and peoples and that it should be taken care of when it comes to appointments, we propose to the VSTV to take care of the representation of the constituent peoples. Of course, it can spread to other positions. When it comes to the Party of Democratic Action and the mentioning of your struggle for the rights of Pilava, you know that President Izetbegović has just been discussed before the Constitutional Court that the constituent peoples of the entity Republika Srpska and Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat, and in the Federation of BiH, also Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat. Therefore, our policy is consistent, principled and we will never ask for a Bošnjak to be named at the heart of quality, but we ask to take care of the representation of the constituent peoples, primarily in the main positions, everywhere and in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5636	Thank you. Let's move on, Zukan Helez came forward, that's the third one of the wrong quote, he can't. 52 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, it's not. Let's go, Branislav, it's a unique debate, Branislav Borenović, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5638	Thank you, Your Honor. Companions and colleagues, distinguished guests. Surely this is a topic long, long awaited here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and I think it is very important that you are as key people of BiH's judiciary here, that you can hear us, that we can look ourselves in the eye and express ourselves with the right of our dissatisfaction with the situation in the judiciary, because I have the feeling that citizens of this country are not only dissatisfied but have a kind of fear of a judicial system, hoping that I will never get into the situation that they have to seek justice through the various circumstances that have been so far. I have no intention of talking about statistics, I'm going to talk about a few human fates based on valid documents, but very valid documents and arguments. I may be talking about what politicians most often run away, especially perhaps politicians who come from my people, Serbian, and based on what the chief prosecutor said about war crimes and where I feel more about quantity than quality, I also want to talk about that citizen's mistrust going towards you and because of your mistakes, your inadequacies, your iniquities, your quantity, not your quality. You said you were proud that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the leader of the region because there are over 800 people convicted of war crimes with 3,200 years in prison. You said the victims have a satisfaction in the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and I want to ask you, is the satisfaction of the victims if you accuse and condemn the innocent and halve the punishment of those who committed the crimes? I'm going to give an example that I believe isn't the only one, there's a lot of them, with a lot of arguments. As far as the Dušan Janković case from Prijedor is concerned, and before I say, I am one of those who disgusts people who have committed any war crimes, no matter where the people come from, and if I wanted to abuse it I would probably mention statistics, as it is possible that the most judgment is given to my people for the most years, the most, the most faces, I do not want to go into it. I'm talking about the case of Dušan Janković, who, on the basis of a plea agreement that you, when I say you, did with the people who committed crimes on the Korićan rocks, got 21 years in prison, and these people got a sentence of 11, 12, or 13 years in prison on the basis of a plea agreement with you, because your goal was a quantity, unfortunately, not a quality. Based on false testimony, which was confirmed in the trial itself and the Board of Appeal annulled the first-degree verdict, in the second-degree, with the very controversial involvement of prosecutors from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which is why the stenograms, the footage, you ruled an innocent man to be 21 years in prison. Doesn't matter if it's Dušan, Daut or Domagoj, I want to say it. I will forward to you later a letter from his daughter and family sent to all of you, in which case I have known for several years, a terrible crime that took place on the Korićan rocks when 150 of them were drawn from the 1,200 Bošnjak convoy, killed. In The Hague, people responded, no one has ever mentioned this man who later appears in one of your alignments with the real criminals. A very interesting example of which the film "Dušan Janković is guilty or innocent", in the production of K3 TV. That's what I'm saying to ask you, what do these people do, this family? What to do because they have all the papers, documents, everything when it comes to how and in what way individuals have testified, not one Bošnjak neighbour who clearly said that this man was neither in the convoy, nor participated in any loss, nor in the beginning of the starting location of Predor nor in Vlasic. One case that shows the absurd situation we're in. 53 The second thing I want to talk about is the part where I personally participated as a member of the Survey Committee at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska about seeing facts related to the accident of David Dragičević. You know that a precedent was made then, in my opinion positive, because we had the opportunity as MPs to talk to the district attorney and prosecutor who worked on this case and then we had the opportunity to see, the public saw how many failures were made on the issue of the murder of a young Banjalučanin, how long the prosecution had scheduled here from the very beginning when the whole case was placed under the mark of the KTA where there was no qualification of a criminal offence, these are those cases which later clumsifies and throws themselves into the trash basket, until the delay in taking orders to investigate a murder, until the transfer of responsibility to police workers and a whole set of environments where we proved to have a serious systemic, essential problem with the work of the judiciary. A number of murders have not been solved, whether consciously or unconsciously, but this case has shown and I am witness to that in a conversation that we had with key police people, but also with prosecutors that my only conclusion afterwards was, dear Bog, just so I don't get into a situation, personally me or my family, that we have to seek justice. So many failures, and you haven't done anything through the D.A.'s office in this case, until today's day, it's been 100 days you've been given an order to qualify for the crime, that it's a murder. For the first five days, you didn't want to do anything from March 24th to March 29th at all, which is quite enough for someone to consciously conceal, put away, remove evidence. A shameful press conference where the police are and where the defendants came out with false findings that it was an accident, that it was a drug addict, that it was a robbery of a house that had never been proven, it was documents and statements, testimony and, of course, a conversation with the prosecutor. You haven't done anything about it, whether because you don't want to object, you don't want to do it, or it's taken so much root that this is a hopeless situation. Many cases cannot come to court because everything depends, everything depends on this country, when it comes to the judiciary, on the prosecution's will. Depending on that, the legislator said, and I always insist there that this should be changed in legislation, but unfortunately, I have a feeling that because of the prosecutor's will many things in this country can't go any further and you bring the greatest responsibility, if nothing else, the command responsibility, because you are the top of the pyramid, and therefore you are now clear why they have always spoken and representatives of the international community, including representatives of political elites and of my people, some quantity in war crimes, just don't let corruption and organised crime be touched. I have a feeling that this Ten or fifteen years ago, there is an increasingly real echo, and that is why it is necessary, first of all, to apply the conclusion that we had seven, eight months ago in this House, probably a set of conclusions that will be today and do something, because I feel that this has gone so far, so far as to ask whether something can be done or whether the message you sent us today at this thematic session of messages that went to citizens, and it is very dangerous. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5639	Thank you. Mr Nenad Stevandić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5640	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The esteemed colleagues of today's debate, as well as the discussions at last session, when Col. Mektić proposed a conclusion or the Law on the Disbanding of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, generally speaks of the fact that we are trying to achieve greater political interference in the work of the judiciary, 54 rather than create conditions that we have an independent judiciary. I said that last time, what's the point of changing the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and then they're going to be elected by the same lawyers, judges and prosecutors who chose this one, and then the politicians are going to blow up that everyone has some influence to pick out one of their own and get the exact same body with the same system. What have we done to improve judicial independence? Absolutely nothing or even if they're principled lawyers, judges and prosecutors, and they choose the same composition that they have now, which can't be prevented by anything and what we've done. Let's see what we're doing today. At the beginning of the debate, we had some kind of war cry on the judiciary, on the VSTS, on the prosecutor, etc. What are we, why did it start? To achieve some kind of better political influence on the judiciary itself, that means that it would be less independent than it is today. That's how I interpret many conclusions today, but I don't blame anyone personally. I'm saying that the judiciary is part of our overall social system, that it's completely inseparable from both politicians and businessmen and from bankers and health workers, from tax and other administrations, so it's inseparable, it's part of the same society, of the same system, and it's about pooled vessels, and it's certain that the people of the judiciary have not taught politicians how to steal. I must say that there is political corruption in BiH as well as in other countries, and that the worst kind of fight against this political corruption is an attempt to act politically or to say that there is even greater political interference, to say, in the judicial system of judges, prosecutors, etc. If we want to change the law, it's okay, we can, it's also mentioned by the chief prosecutor and colleagues who discussed it, so we can pass the law to confirm here both judges and prosecutors, that Parliament has its share as in America or in some other countries. But let's be totally objective, was that better before in the VSTS and the D.A. when, say, the SDA had much better political control or much more positional people from its party? So today we have two judges of the Constitutional Court who are SDA officials and no one is going to attack, say, on that side of the Constitutional Court, do you have two officials from that party in that court, but then you will attack the prosecution and the High Court and Prosecution Council where there may be someone else. A much wider picture is needed for us to take this job seriously, there are no quick sessions, harangi, haika, but much more serious. In our society, so many things are illogical and illogical than it is in the judiciary, here we are witnessing that this Parliament will not choose a minister from the order of the Serbian people who is also by law and who has passed the checks, not entering his political qualifications, and I may not like it either, but all others who do not like someone else are also chosen. What's the issue? Or one deputy secretary of security, what's that all about? It can't go through the procedure, it can't agree with the College, because you want a political influence that's inappropriate and what's the difference between the political influence you're trying to achieve on the judiciary from the one you're using to challenge us that we have a minister, assistant minister of security or I don't know the directors of the agencies, etc. The bigger the problem, so you can't say that the judiciary is isolated, isolated system where there are some problems, and this is the second all Švajcarska. Maybe it's the other way around. Problems in the intelligence sector, diplomas, etc. We're just gonna try to influence the judiciary. The worst thing about society is that politicians are ordering and determining what prosecutors are going to do and who is going to go to jail and then people will, of course, fight to come to power so that they can shut down their opponents. It is a complete degradation of the system, and with European values it has absolutely nothing to do with either democratic or control, let's say, Parliament in the judiciary, and we've heard a lot today. Let's say that you would legally characterise that a man changes his nationality in 15 minutes to become a minister, is that a more beneficial, abuse, is there such an act? And that happened last week, suddenly becoming a Srbin man to be a minister or deputy 55 ministers. Is that degradation? Is that the system in which we live and where we found the shoes, as the colleague said, of the judiciary? Of course not, I gave this one, let's say, a little political assessment, but it's true and it's based on data. So here are the hacks on Republika Srpska for the Constitutional Court's decision and the Assembly's decision on agricultural land. You know there are eight unexecuted assessments of the constitutionality and 15 appeals that have nothing to do with Republika Srpska, let's bet you don't know who they are and that you never called on why they aren't being executed, but this one, this one, it has to be carried out, it was similar with January 9th. So, out of the 15 two in Republika Srpska and only the two are known, one still applies to military housing and it is related to the Republika Srpska but is not directly. So that's the kind of selection that we're doing, that's completely disturbed and that every session and every debate that we're having is going to come up with. There were also talks here about meetings at the Administrative Centre in eastern Sarajevo, it was not a SNSD meeting, it was a set of all MPs from Republika Srpska, therefore there is no party story. It was from all the political parties involved, there were, of course, people who are employed in this, what is called, the joint bodies and the SDS that have gone, some of them are not, of course, 67 people were. So it wasn't a party event, let's just say it's true, that we're speaking correctly, that we're not trying to, as you might say, draw attention to the other side. Now I'd say something that I have a duty to do as someone who's from Republika Srpska. In the past few years, the number of crimes charges against the Serb people has increased, and the number of indictees has increased, from 2004 to 2015 in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, 53 charges against 102 people for cases where the victims were Srbin, while 41 charges against 126 people have been filed since 2015. That it's not a problem, that it's not someone's fault, that we don't look selectively at these things either, or that's the story of political control or of a carriage, and I don't know, I don't know, the victim used for some kind of, say, achieving a political goal. I don't want to talk about anyone else here, I don't think that would be an abuse or that I should say that someone sews a label on me, and I have to tell you that I notice this as a citizen from Republika Srpska. I lost two brothers, they weren't born, in this war, and I don't think now that I'm supposed to raise, what's-his-name, any harangu why someone hasn't been found, who's guilty, I don't know, for the death of one. I don't mean to do anything personal, and I want to tell you that we have to be objective, this is the state of two entities and three peoples, and we have to negotiate and there are no special prepared sessions, media harangs that follow, which are exactly who they're going to target. In this country, it's all about who's going to call before the session to wrap it up, on which television, on which the portal, on which the solution is, there's just a further complication, further cooking, and then we come up with rude words like we heard today and insults that are completely unnecessary. I don't agree with many colleagues, I don't think I'm insulting them. Here comes the time of the end, that's what I wanted to tell you that this should be a topic for future sessions, even when we're changing the law and that it might lead to us having a rational approach to justice as we have, I don't know, according to various ministries, trade societies, a rational approach. The judiciary is also looking at this balance, which Mr Adil Osmanović spoke of, a national balance, but they are working under the law, and that the judiciary can get some stamp from the Parliamentary Assembly, and for God's sake also from the National Assembly of the RS or the Federation of BiH, to influence or confirm some kind of choice, so that we have double control. But I'm against from last session, revolutionary justice, shoes, chasers and solutions to the shortcut. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5641	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5642	Thank you, Chairman. You won't mind me, I hope, but here's to cross over and thank these from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the BiH Prosecutor's Office for hearing our requests and forgiving themselves to come here today and attend this session. Otherwise, every time there was an attempt to come, to debate, to bring up reasoned problems, to talk about failures, about irresponsibility, about shortcomings, they tried to politicise it by saying that it was a pressure on the judicial system, that it was a political influence on them, and that they had no obligation to this Parliament, nor to come, nor to justify anything. Mr. Stevandić says – this is an attempt at political influence now, and this is now political influence. It's like there's no political influence, so they're under a terrible political influence right now, and they're now under a terrible political influence, and we're trying to see how and if there's any way to get that thing out of political influence and get it done and start doing it professionally. I've been saying for four years that the justice system isn't working, that the justice systems aren't working, that the justice system is corrupt, that the justice system is criminalized and that it's under serious political influence and I've earned the indictment. Okay. If someone didn't think I had the indictment, I would go and it would be, it's a matter of court, but you, Mr. Tegeltija, can't speak either – imagine the accused Mektić Dragan talking about justice. And what does it mean that I am, is there a presumption of innocence, am I convicted? And I said right away -- imagine Milan Tegeltija, headed by the BiH judiciary. And that's a fact, it's seen from the video where you're sitting with people who participate in the procedure and you talk about the case and you say it's nothing, I'll do it quickly there- here, and at the end of this money, money to him and nobody. And for you, the investigation was completed in three days, in three days, so that it would be determined that an illegal disciplinary application against you. And I thought there was one Bog, Sanja Vulić says, or Sonja says – there is another Bog for her, and I think there is a God and you are Bog for yourself. Well, you are the most responsible that the judiciary in this state is catastrophic, so isn't public perception enough, which is what Mr. Kojović says, research is relevant to 2/3 of the citizens of this country lacks confidence. And that doesn't bother you, it doesn't bother you, so Štrahe went to Ibicu there, sat there, drank, drank, what was female, I don't know what was wrong, talked about some things, about some business and filed, came when he discovered he resigned. So do you have moral responsibilities, and the prosecutor tells us if we have moral responsibilities? Since you don't have moral responsibilities, well, if you had, it would have been honorable and fair, so to say, yes, I participated, I entered, there was money dealing, it was money and all that. And the D.A., to continue, today with one scandalous speech, inappropriate here, threatened us with a finger, told us who the last one laughs the cutest, so we'll see. It's not the pressure on us to watch what we're gonna talk about, it's not what she said about the virus here, that we need to discuss the virus, about the crown virus. So here's the doctor, I don't know how much you want, here's three of them in this row, four of them just here, so I guess they should, so get up, so I don't know, say if we're ready for it, but you come here and you talk about the Coronal Virus to discuss here or to discuss migrants here, and you're headed by the task force to fight human trafficking and illegal migration and you're taking in for that fee. And you say, "We will see, he says, who has slept through five years 57, and that is what will come out." And I realized you're pointing your finger at me. What do you know about migration? You don't know anything, you haven't been able to, let me say, prove what your obligation is. And what you're threatening, so you've got eight investigations against me, everything I've said you've opened an investigation. So the subject of "Diplom" opens up and the media does, newspapers do what they do, go buy a deal, I don't know about a few thousand marks, etc. etc. And you don't open there, you don't find yourself in that case anywhere, and you open an investigation against all security agencies and agencies, and you ask us all to deliver the diplomas to the executive workers, which is what you're asking for to deliver, that the D.A.'s office check out the diplomas. Well, you have no right to do that, you can only do that if there's a reasonable doubt that you're looking for a degree and you can document that background. And what, you've opened that question, and we're going to ask you, and then three years you've been questioning my diploma, three years you won't shut up just to try to blackmail me, so I won't shut up and shut up. Well, you can sentence me to 10 years in prison, I don't want to keep my mouth shut about your thieving in the D.A., about nepotism, about crime, about the corruption there. Where did the subject "Pandora" appear to you as the process of the century by the Prosecutor's Office here in BiH, the process of the century, the two billion hidden assets, where now, 37 indictees were in the case, how many now? Where's the money, where's the confiscated property, who was responsible for it? Niko one, except that when the defendant was heard, the first accused, the accused, whatever you want in that case, the second day on 20 pages, his statement came out on social networks and everything was seen what he said, who brought him into a relationship, who he connected with, who he connected with, who he did what he did, who he talked to, what it was your mess, so you're a mess for this system. Young people are going to get you out of this country for the sake of justice because there's no legal certainty, because there's no rule of law. Because there's no rule of law, no one's going to provide it, and that's why, when it's gone, it doesn't feel safe, it goes for safety. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Where's Bosnalijek? Where is the election theft and identity theft, which was sent to the BiH Prosecutor's Office? Where's David Dragičević? Where's Saša Labotić? Uh, what should I have done to get That, right now, I'm gonna end up with him accusing the guy, pressing charges against the boy who died before that. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Where's the Duvan affair? The other day, it happened in Orash, 56 tons of tobacco went missing, the D.A. and the acting prosecutor ordered SIPA [[the speaker is warned on time]] The prosecutor determined where he would stay and the tobacco disappeared, over 3 million marks of material damage. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And I want to tell you something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5643	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5644	When it comes to war crimes, I agree with what Nenad Stevandić said, I agree. There are objects that They're so simple, here's the end of this, that. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Where's Sjekovac? What's the problem with Sekovac? Where's Mrkonjić's tomb? All clear situations, I condemn every war crime and each Srbin is responsible for a war crime, if he committed it, but there is no satisfaction in the prosecution when you will not prosecute the obvious cases in which the Srbin were killed. It's scandalous and I'd still have to talk, but here's only a few things I'm gonna stay on, but I'm telling you 10 years in prison I'm willing to be, but again I'm going to expose all the crime and your theft, did you bring this country into this situation, this is a robbed state, an impoverished, miserable people, and the only way out is to get away and you're to blame for running the people out of this country. Thank you. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5645	Thank you, Mr. Mektić, you've spoken two and a half minutes more than the Rules of Procedure predicts and I ask the other participants in the debate to abide by it. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr Nenad Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5646	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say what the diploma was about, but before that, I'm truly surprised and happy that Mr. Mektić agrees with me on something, I honestly thank you, it's never too late. As far as diplomats are concerned, whoever has a clean diploma doesn't need to be afraid of checking, check everything, check everything against a diploma check, and to be honest here from my wife, anything, any family, any diplomas to check, that's the cause, and that's the first step in corruption, the one that has forged the diploma, he's going to falsify everything, he's going to do everything against the law, because at the beginning of his career he did something based on, let's say, he's talking about crime and breaking the law and what he expects of him when his first step was falsification. Of course, all the worst, I mean it. And I apologize to the chairman and others about the crown of the virus, and you honestly saw that I often get in touch with our mobile team, unrelated, there's the prosecutor right, we should talk about it today. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Don't throw it away. It's an objective thematic session, and we're discussing it, and I'm going to try to say something at that second session. It's cheating on the respirators, we're fighting for it, so no one who doesn't let Bog die because we're short of a respirator in a day or two to help this discussion and bickering. The serious problem is, tonight means, until today, up to our session there are about 600 people in our environment, Slovenia, Croatia, Austria for the first time, Italy, it's amazing, we are currently a very good and isolated system and I think it deserves our attention, it deserves the Minister of Civil Affairs to start coordinating with the health ministries. Ministry of Health in Republika Srpska, let me tell you, is in a 24-hour session, directors of institutions 24 hours, and we underestimate it and here we fight and it won't help people who, God Bog, get sick. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Discipline in that shows how serious we are. I'm sorry, Chairman. I just wanted to say it's a serious topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5648	Okay, it is a serious subject, but it's out of the agenda. Mr. Mektić came forward, but you no longer have the right to correct the wrong assumption, because you have already used that right of business. The word is Miss Sanja Vulić. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5649	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. When it comes to this thematic session, I must say, this, that once there was an Independent Judicial Commission which, unfortunately, ceased working at the end of March 2004. When I say, unfortunately, I say for reasons why they were tasked in addition to these secretarial tasks to deal with discipline. In order to show seriousness and that we as MPs would not represent judges here, I personally believe that we need to form a disciplinary office and a disciplinary prosecutor, so before we dare to speak in the highest home that the representatives of the VSTS, prosecutors, judges, blatant, rude and involved in affairs, and that we have not defined what an affair is, that we have not collected evidence that we have no arguments and that the subject is beyond any reasonable doubt and that we are here to behave much more responsibly and more maturely. We need a system of responsibility, and that we need a system of responsibility tells us the fact that we are discussing and how we behave with pride and freedom when we call for things like revenge. If we really want to do something for this country, we're not going to make shows for the citizens here, because today's the day you tell me stories, tomorrow it's all the same. What are we going to do about it specifically? Here's what we're gonna replace Mrs. Tadić with some Ana over there, it doesn't matter, and what happened. Is one face enough or all, here's a complete VSTS when it changes, did we essentially change something? It's not about people, it's about the system, and I need that system to be arranged. It means it's up to us, and I think we here either don't have enough courage or we don't want to initiate an arrangement that would really be at the will of all citizens and in the interest of all BiH citizens. So, for me personally, this is a use of time for politics. As much as this House is being abused, as far as it all comes down to personal interests, how much we dared to do according to that – the cadiya judge, the cadiya, and the prosecution, tells the fact that one of our colleagues has been confirmed a high corruption indictment and is expected to be tried, and that the same one went to court to plead on a confirmed indictment and only a few days after that in this House the bill, by emergency procedure, of the termination of the term of office of the members of the VSTS. Now, you explain to me, isn't that an attempt to pressure the members of the VSTS, isn't that the influence of legislation on judicial authority? Let me explain to me all these very good lawyers, and I believe both the members of the VSTS and the prosecutors will tell me about it whether it's an attempt to influence. I believe that neither all politicians are corrupt, nor all judges and prosecutors are corrupt, each carrying its burden, what is being done here is a pure attempt to influence the judiciary that has absolutely nowhere to go. The Law on the VSTS of Bosnia and Herzegovina Article 20(4) states that, at the invitation of the Parliamentary substance or of another body, the president or the authorised person will explain the report at the session and answer the questions of the MPs, reports, assessments, suggestions and proposals that do not dispute the independence of the VSTS can be given through the debate. Since we are constantly talking about the Venice Commission, the Venice Commission has explicitly said that the VSTS president does not have to appear in Parliament and that it is a matter of his personal choice. Now, so much for this subject, and I have certain questions for the guest gentlemen. I wonder if you can even do what the law, regulations and your profession tells you to do. Do we, as legislators, put pressure on you without any evidence of charges? Is there any guilt in your actions? Who are the political representatives that colleagues mention and are you really someone, and are you really protecting someone when you're more powerful than everyone? Do you really cover up crimes, and I personally don't think you do, and if you do that, who sabotages you in lighting up those cases? Because regardless of who it's about, I don't think any crime should be covered up, and I also think that you're not irresponsible people, or people with no credibility, or people who lack money to behave like that. 60 I also want to say, I have never been in a position to witness, nor to be accused, nor this, nor that, I have no contact with you, and I respect you, from my point of view the power should be divided as defined, into executive, legislative and judicial, and we all need to do our job as defined. And I'll say when it comes to Mrs. Tadić's exposure, so I absolutely didn't get into how you did, what you did and what you did, you as yourself, as Gordana Tadić, but I'll tell you that I'm very excited about your performance, because I think we all need to act in a way that we all have the courage to stand behind our actions and procedures, and not that here in this House when we don't call you any names, ugly names, and I know as soon as you do, we're all smaller than a soft grain and we're just here spinning some stories without any arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5650	Thank you, Miss Vulić. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dragan Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5651	Thank you, Chairman. You just beat me to it, and it's actually a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5652	All right, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5653	where Mr. Stevandić instead, to say the so-called corrections of the wrong quote also gave us a lecture here on the coronary virus etc. And then he talked about diplomas and said that diplomas should be under the obligation to investigate whether whoever commits a crime with a degree in youth committed, uh, he would do everything in his life. And last session was Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic's initiative to check diplomas in BiH institutions and you voted against.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5654	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5655	Well, here's your club vote, and you don't care, do you?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5656	Mr. Mektić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5657	And on the committee voted against...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5658	If it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then stick to it, right? 61
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5659	Well, it is, I'm talking because he was talking about diplomats and because he was talking about the coronary virus here, and if you need the thematic session on the coronary virus to suggest, you're going to have a session about the coronary virus.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5660	Okay, thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5661	I'd answer to a young colleague, she's too young to have the opportunity to get in touch with the judiciary, but life is ahead of her, never a man knows. My fellow lawyer says - you never know when you can get into a situation where you're in jail. So the man is never safe. But she said, "I wanted to replicate for what she said that today when the attorney general came here, we were all smaller than a masculine grain." Well, I think that's very funny. Why would we be smaller than a masculine grain, we represent the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the prosecutor was elected by the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, and I know that the role of the prosecutor gives the man power, you feel very strong, because everyone can, you have the coercion of the state, you have the police, you have the police agencies, and each of us can now cuff him and send him to prison. But the office of the prosecutor is primarily a responsible function and should fear these functions of people for, who have certain negativity in their work and in their actions and those for whom there is a basis or reasonable doubt that they have committed some crime. I don't feel any smaller than a masculine grain here today. I'm so glad I can talk to the people of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5662	Thank you. Agent Arnatu's discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5663	Thank you, Chairman. So, we are having this debate today almost nine months after we formed an investigative committee as a Dom whose primary task was to investigate the situation in the judiciary with special reference to our country's capacity for EU integration in this light. They formed and appointed members of that committee in accordance with the conclusion adopted by this House. Why was the special emphasis on EU integration? Because we adopted that conclusion on June 26th, and a month before the adoption of that conclusion, the European Commission issued its report, which pointed to huge problems in BiH's judiciary, accurately identified systemic errors in the judicial sector and which report, from which reports represent a huge obstacle to our country's path to the EU. And who follows EU recommendations, or the European Commission? Well, this particular body, Parliament primarily. And the recommendations of the European Commission are not broken over their knees, they are approached systemically, seriously and institutionally, after all, as the countries of our environment testify which, some of whom are now EU members, some of whom are on a very good path, much better than we are, all of them have made such recommendations in this very way, as I said, systematically, seriously and institutionally. Now, to solve the problem in such a way, we need to investigate it 62 fully first, its nature, its background and the reasons and the most efficient mechanism that this Parliament has at its disposal is to conduct an investigation. So be careful what the Rules of Procedure says, but before I remind you, the Rules of Procedure is a constitutional category. So the Dayton Constitution in Article IV concerning the BiH Parliamentary Assembly accurately states that each home will adopt its rules of procedure. Point, no further, no restrictions, just an order, therefore, our right and obligation to adopt our rules of procedure. And our Rules of Procedure, article 39, says that the commission, and I remind and we have established a provisional investigative committee, the Commission can carry out public or closed hearings on its own or with other competent committees, call and hear witnesses from any BiH institution and may request them to respond to all investigations, present all facts and information, as well as those representing secret information, raise a question of responsibility for not responding to the call, giving false or incorrect statements to the Commission under oath, request a report from any elected and appointed official, official or institution, ask for the assistance of the auditor, and ask for the help of independent experts outside BiH institutions. Now, you see, today we've heard that we don't have enough expertise in this House. That's why there are, if that's the problem, if it comes up as a real problem, you have this point f) that says that the investigative commission can ask for help from independent experts outside BiH institutions, professors, etc. And now the question arises, why are we here nine months later discussing this issue when the nine-month commission could and should have worked, but it is not because for one single reason that nine months later today, a constitutional session has not been called up, and according to this Rules of Procedure, the only one responsible for calling the constitutive session of any committee is Secretary of the House. If the Secretary of the House doesn't do it, none of us, no matter what we're MPs, have the authority to do it, except change the Rules of Procedure. This, therefore, we here have, I don't know, five, six conclusions, proposed by Mr. Osmanović, as I understand it, in front of the SDA Club. However, look at the contents, what is being achieved with them? They are completely declarative, distracting, quote – distracting, we consider meaningful, delivering statistics etc. And I already offer four times, my colleague Borenović is, in fact, this, a couple of times, so we offer the same conclusion that he says – the House of Representatives is in charge of the Secretary of the House to convene within 10 days of the date of adoption of this conclusion a constitutive session of the interim investigation committee of the House, which was founded at the second emergency session, held on 14 and 26.06.2019 and whose members were appointed on the basis and in accordance with that conclusion. And four times this proposal falls, four times, Adil Osmanović is the 10 vote of the SNSD, I keep saying it, and I won't stop because I refer to what Mr. Radmanović once said, that they don't have that tenth vote for entity voting, you have it in Mr. Osmanović, you forgot about him. I hope you don't do ethnic discrimination, because he's going to resent you for that, is he? Therefore, this one, our number of MPs has referred this proposal to the conclusion again now in the procedure, he is sure I am divided. And to be clear, once again, the investigative commission should be doing its job professionally, thoroughly. The investigative commission should look fully at the situation, to listen primarily to law professors, to consult with experts from the international Union, from international institutions such as the OSCE, Transparency International, who are responsible for this area. That it identifies the cause of the problem, so we have colleagues here who say which research you are calling for, so it's explained to them. Here I refer to the recommendations of the European Commission, I refer to Pribe's report, which have identified really structural problems, and it is up to us to solve them. So, it is exclusively 63 for us to resolve them, in Parliament, if Parliament does not solve them, there is no forward towards the EU. I mean, an extremely simple problem, which isn't easy to solve, and it's not gonna be solved on the basis of the five, six conclusions of the girlie nature that we have here today. It can only be solved through a system approach, through an institutional approach, through an approach that is not only permitted, but also imposed by the Rules of Procedure. And if we don't, do I remind you once again that the formation of this investigative commission is explicit and very clearly welcomed by the United States Embassy and the OSCE Mission in BiH. So any further refusal to put this investigative commission into office, to do its job, to solve these problems will be a signal to the European Union that we, at least as Parliament, are not interested in solving these problems, and when you add all these major blockades and many other things, so don't be surprised if we remain the only non-EU country, but whose citizens are all going to be in the European Union. So I call on my colleagues to take this question seriously, to adopt this conclusion so that we don't have exactly, among other things, to avoid these sessions where there's a possibility of, as a colleague said, shoeing, because that's not the point, the point is to do something. And the investigative committee, or Parliament through such an investigative committee, and of course all the findings of the commission will ultimately be not only available to the House, but the House will need to ratify them, or adopt them. So I'm calling on my colleagues to really make themselves known, to accept this conclusion, not to deal with declarative issues, but to start essentially working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5664	Thank you. We've got four more reported, I'm calling my colleagues if it's possible to condense their discussions a little bit. Zlatan Begić's discussion, and Nikola Lovrinović corrects the wrong allegations, before that, in order to complete this part of the session, we will then give a break, which will also be a lunch and consultation break, after which we will return to the vote on the conclusions and this material and continue with the regular 7th session. So, we've got another whole session, regular 7th session, and here's why I'm asking my colleagues to do a little conjecture on their presentations. Mr. Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5665	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, very briefly, I refer to what Mr., colleague Arnaut said, so everything is called, to the Rules of Procedure, to the Constitution, except the Law, let's say, on the VSTV and the Court, and the question is whether we could form an investigative commission by law. So it's the only thing he doesn't call for, and I'm going to remind him that we're not even authorized to accept the report, we're receiving knowledge. The point is, what was going to happen to that investigative committee, could we have legally brought it in at all? I voted against it at the time, I don't think so, and the Rules of Procedure are about the bodies, the working bodies of Parliament, or at least that conclusion should have been clearer to what this commission would be about, whether it would talk to international experts, or I don't know who it was already, about the situation in the judiciary, so, okay, or if it was meant to get into cases, in courts, in proceedings, in decisions of the VSTV, I don't know what it meant. So he's been calling on everything except whether we have the right to bring it or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5666	Adil Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5667	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5668	Third, he can't. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5669	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5670	No, it can't. It just signaled.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5671	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5672	He can't, he can't, he's third, he's third. Branislav Borenović, correcting the wrong allegations. He can't really.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5673	Well, I think that the formation of an investigative commission is essentially one of the mechanisms of parliamentary supervision of our Parliament and that it is one of the best mechanisms in which, as a temporary commission, we can discuss all of these things that we are discussing today more specifically and refer to certain conclusions. And what you're asking, so we adopted the majority vote's conclusion at that time, is for, it's an undeniable parlametan decision that was made more than eight months ago, in which it clearly states -- the establishment of a temporary investigative commission of the House of Representatives whose aims will be to investigate the situation in BiH's judicial institutions with special reference to the ability of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH to participate in the processes necessary on BiH's path to EU membership. Trust your colleague Lovrinović, from the experience I personally had in the Republika Srpska Parliament, these are very useful things, when on the basis of one commission you are discussing the situation, in this case in the judiciary, and in no way can it affect what you were talking about, I think it is the quality of Parliament, that it is our duty, that it is our duty to try in this way through parliamentary procedures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Oversight to come before this Parliament with something very specific, very precise. We have a serious problem, it doesn't work in the judiciary, so they're all aware, it's become such a politicisation as we have the right to speak as politicians, I don't think people in the BiH judicial system have the right to allow themselves to say certain things that are absolutely not within their scope. They need to answer questions specifically, as far as they've done, why they're waiting and what it's possible to do about the conclusions we've adopted ourselves. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5674	Thank you. Zlatan Begić, discussion. Let's go fast. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5675	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I'm glad to see them, of course, but I won't thank you for being here today, I believe that for reasons of courtesy when considering the report on the work of the institution, it's time for the first people of that institution to be here. Not because we like to see them or what they like to see us, but because we can't do the woods, and you can do the road and the other way around. We are, unfortunately, doomed to each other. Unfortunately for you or for us, or unfortunately this body here needs to adopt laws that will improve, among other things, the state of justice. This body, most of its part, as you have probably noticed today, is nevertheless a layman's body, it is a selected representative body and it needs professional help to, among other things, have adequate solutions. In that sense, we at the DF Club were even thinking at the beginning of leaving this session, I ask you never to threaten again, not in this body, not on the street, but you are the bearers of the highest judicial functions, and as far as I'm concerned, whether I'm personally threatened or in a group of people with my fingertips, I simply don't allow it, and of course I won't respond with the same measure, and I'm glad that most colleagues didn't respond by the same measure, because this is our joint house from which they need to start some reform processes. So why did I say sorry? Well, you've seen what we are, and nowhere is good, nor in this House, and we need to decide on big questions. Don't forget, I mean tomorrow is the anniversary of the murder, the assassination of the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Đinđić, when it began to reform through the law, through representative bodies in our first neighbouring country just aimed at law enforcement agencies and according to the judicial system, then even there was an assassination. I hope we don't get to it, and I hope we're still on the same track. I think the problem is, God forbid it doesn't just work for the judiciary, we won't say it doesn't work, but we'll say it's not what the citizens expect. Unfortunately, the legislative authority is not working either. We saw for a year we were blocked here, we couldn't hold a session, we didn't work, we were blocked. So, in our system, people don't need snipers, coming or not coming, raising or not raising their hands can defuse a complete system, even when it comes to implementing reform processes. It is important that those who need to pass general acts have contact with the holders of judicial functions, whether I like them or not. We've been elected citizens here, and we have some knowledge, and here I am sitting here, and here I see messages coming to me, that you've got hydrobuilding workers gathering in front of Parliament, that they personally tell you what they think about the work of the judiciary. What about bankruptcy proceedings? We have, therefore, even today the application of the provisions of the law on bankruptcy within the judicial system that have been announced before the Constitutional Court unconstitutional and the Law has changed. The chief prosecutor also mentioned the victims, not conducting the proceedings, if, in this respect, we were completely humiliated, I would say, the victims. I also see here a colleague who has participated in a series of such proceedings before the courts as a lawyer, with the fact that we are de facto and de jure, in proceedings to compensate for immaterial damage, in fact, and in fact through court practice, an outdated genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity has been introduced. And not only that, people are prescribed the enormous costs of procedures they are obliged to pay, which is therefore terrible. It's an additional victim victim victim victim victim victimisation. I think you need to know these things, and this is an opportunity to be told. In the end, as a public figure, I, for example, am always grateful when someone gives me suggestions when it comes to my work and ultimately we have to get used to it, democracy is hard, democracy implies conversation, defaults dialogue, implies criticism, but does not involve threats, we won't go that far, fortunately so today, uh, Mr. Pribe wasn't here. 66 I do not agree that the holders of judicial functions should choose representative bodies, that we are in some order, and you see that we are not citizens can see it, so that would be okay, but we are in a mess, we who should choose, but I believe that the real balance is what my colleague Kojović was saying, that representative bodies are in line with the law that should be passed through special expert commissions to eventually determine the situation or facts in which a representative body can come from the duties of a legal holder. I do not think it is good for the representative bodies to choose those positions, but that the mechanism should be introduced, the counterbalance of determining responsibility in a public transparent procedure by the commission, which would be formulated by the representative body and in whose report and finding the representative body would then vote. I think, too, that it should be taken into account, in 2015 I did one research within a single project, and it concerned the perceptions of people within the judiciary on justice, about 80 to 90% of judicial officials agreed where these are bottlenecks, and that kind of professional assistance is also needed by this body, so that we can install it into those laws. Because no one can pass the law except us, to be clear, there is no reform without us, the situation is not good, the situation is bad. We have problems in practice, we have problems in the application of the law, we have problems in interpreting the law, the principle of rule of law is threatened, the fact is given to the norms that are advertised unconstitutional, their legal validity continues, etc. and so much closer. So we have to do something. Since I've been asking most of the questions I've been meaning to ask the chief prosecutor in this case, colleagues have already asked it, so it doesn't have to today, but it can at one of the next sessions or today whatever. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. So, you mentioned terrorism – are the activities of Islamics or fascist, Ustasha and Chetnic formations, under terrorism from the point of view of the BiH Prosecutor's Office? And in the end, there were gaffs, we have to admit, there were gaffs that were left behind in the democratic world, whether you were guilty or not, it's just like that. I'd add, in the end, that we're sitting in a representative body, which is again talking about us, where I find out today that I can't make out who I am and what I am, and I see that someone has concluded that I am Bošnjak, so the end of my name is written by the Bošnjak in any official documentation – on what basis, is it based on discussion, do I not know? And today when I spoke to myself that I am not a Bošnjak that I want to plead as a man, he says – that can't, and that's my constitutional right. So, I call for reason, I call for cooperation and I call for sanctioning those who are involved in various criminal activities and, of course, autonomy must be understood and the principle of power-sharing. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The principle of power-sharing where it was most rigidly implemented in the presidential systems does not mean that every branch of government but it means a system of mutual influences, balance, balance, etc. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Autonomy without responsibility, it's not autonomy then it's an abuse of autonomy and there's no autonomy without responsibility anywhere, believe me. That's how she does it. Partly understood at universities, and then it was seen that it couldn't, that it had to be responsibility, normative, institutional responsibility. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Because unfortunately our consciousness isn't at that level to have enough personal and moral, so that without this institutional, we can ensure the functioning of the system. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 67 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5677	Baruchi's Baruči, the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5678	Thank you, Chairman. After all these discussions, therefore, a few conclusions have been proposed which you will then give to us for adoption, whether or not we will not see it, but I would like to remind all of us that in 26/06 we had a session on the current situation in the judicial institutions and at that session we have reached 11 conclusions, constructive conclusions. In this, therefore, we have entrusted the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice and members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council with the conclusions, but there is nothing nine months that has passed, and I believe that some of these conclusions are that even if a procedure for their implementation was launched, perhaps we would not be here today discussing this issue at all. And I'm also afraid that these conclusions today will end up like these somewhere unrealized, so maybe after half a year or a year we'll meet again here and discuss the same subject. I am truly calling you to account, and I have asked the College of the House of Representatives by mouth – who is in charge of monitoring the realization of the conclusions made by this House and the proposals and why they are not realised, why is it taking so long and how do we start you, us or people who are mentioned in these conclusions to start working? So, I think it's a lot of nine months that nothing's been done, and among other things, this commission is being investigated by fellow Arnaut. So, as long as we work in a way that we adopt something, that the conclusions end in drawers or maybe in that cat that's been mentioned in this Parliament for several months. I really find this extremely irresponsible and on our part, are we, too, proving that we are partly responsible for the situation in the judicial system, which is why we are not responding. And this, as my colleague Begić said, has already asked a lot of questions, I would only ask the VSTV president to comment here on the "Pottowing" affair since it has also caused frustration among citizens and their mistrust in the VSTV and the judiciary, if he can make your comment at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5679	Thank you. Representative Lovrinović, discussion, efficient.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5680	Well, it's up to me to break cars, isn't it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I have to admit that I really didn't mean to get involved in the debate, first of all, with the prosecutor, and also with some colleagues, that there wasn't really any material that we could talk about, so that we could refer to each other and look for his supplements, or change or make certain conclusions out of it. This is how it's really turned into everything and everything, as my colleague Kojović said, and yet it looks more like shoeing than it's going to produce, in my opinion, the effects, but what's there is, so here I decided to say something, that I'm getting more and more and more, and since last term, it makes us still such an impression, that we are amazing, so that we here just seem all the opposition, we are here all the opposition here has no power. We're all opposition, and we're all attacking both our bodies and the Council of Ministers and ourselves, and we just don't know who's behind what and what we really want to do, and that's probably the simplest thing because of the audience watching us 68 when there's cameras. And why am I saying this? Because a few colleagues from the U.S.A., let's say, I would remind their close associates that only inside, back a few years ago, they were defending the prosecution's work and I remember their conclusions and media performances about Judge Korner's request to enter war crimes cases in the D.A.'s office while there was another prosecutor. And they said themselves, for ten years, or there's never been a thematic session, at least I don't remember these questions, so now everything's settled on this set, so we haven't discussed it in years. And they say, "Well, you know it's someone from the international community," he says, created, so he passed the law, so he imposed. And we all forget that and then we just keep quiet for a certain part of the year when something suits us, which is what Stevandić would say to some, and then suddenly we wake up when something doesn't suit us. That's why I say the fairies seem to carry us, but I don't know how far they'll get us. Why am I still saying this, so for a while, we remember only some events, so the colleagues I mentioned, and others mentioned, special events, we forgot, let's just say, that there's never been a solution to the murder of the Director of the Federal Police, that there's never been a problem of killing the returnees in Travnik and the police, it's an attack on the state. So in some other compositions, it was not even allowed to talk about it, nor to say anything about it. I'm joining my colleague, maybe the youngest here in Parliament, here she is, what she said about the D.A., maybe a little emotionalally, but I wish she was even more open, and I hope that in this answer, on the basis of the questions she's asked, she might tell us a lot more, so we won't like it, so let's open the story, then let's open it up and see what we're doing. But one thing I'm sure of, I'm sure the independent judiciary can only defend us and morals in the judiciary, and we can defend it by passing laws that are enforceable and just, and they, therefore, by implementing laws that are passed, everything else is just like this, so the story and everything else is flat-out, and everything else doesn't lead to anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5681	Dear representative and second deputy Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5682	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, holders of judicial institutions in BiH, I welcome you all well and here by discussing the state of justice in BiH either at regular, emergency sessions or such a thematic one through reports on the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and through the Prosecutor's Report, in fact, on the state of justice, we talked, delivered our views on the functioning, the state of the BiH judiciary as one of the pillars in the government's trode on legislative, executive and judicial matters in BiH. Why did I say this? I want to say that through certain discussions, I will look back on certain conditions that are in some way almost similar to those of this House, but I primarily think about those who have talked about a systematic solution, except for any insults or personal matters or instructions. Speaking of this issue of the situation in the judiciary, I believe that every story on this should start from the very reform of the BiH judiciary, which meant the transfer of competence from entity level to BiH level in terms of the establishment of the VSTV, which was tasked with establishing an independent, impartial and apolitical judiciary. Although the BiH Constitution does not know the judiciary at the state level, all the laws in this area, the Law on the VSTV, on the Court of BiH, the Law on the Prosecutors of BiH have created an international community in BiH and have passed a regular path, i.e. 69 parliamentary procedures, and that they can freely say that none of those present in the institutions at that time through the implementation of reforms, and also the authorities, parliaments that have adopted these procedures, have actually had the opportunity, so I can also say the right to propose any or different solution, and to express their position in terms of this reform. However, it was quickly seen that such a way of establishing and functioning of judicial institutions did not give effect, and that everything together has led to a situation in the judiciary with which no one can be satisfied today, and even I believe that we have heard that from the holders of judicial functions themselves, so I can't even be the greatest optimists can deny actually and the fact that there is actually a huge mistrust in BiH's judicial institutions. A lot, once again, we heard today and through the debate, and I will now highlight only some things and facts concerning indeed more judicial organisations. We have four completely separate judicial systems, which is actually a nonsension if we have procedural legislation in mind. Then we have a huge backlog in the work and trials that take too long, resulting in high fees from the BiH state. We have unsolved war crimes cases, and we have a situation in BiH to be tried according to two different laws, one from 1976 and the other from 2003. Under stricter law, one is judged, and the milder other people, and we know what the difference is in the qualification of works and what it really means in terms of decision-making. The problem is also a selective approach by the Court of Justice of BiH when it comes to the application of the extended jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of BiH, as well as the taking of cases out of the jurisdiction of other courts, as well as the existing organisation of the Court of Justice, where both in the same court is dealt with in the first and second degree, which is directly contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which prescribe the right to an effective legal remedy. Among other things, one of the obstacles to the quality construction of the system, which has led to great mistrust, is an unfair national representation, as at BiH level, taking into account both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office and at the level of the individuality, and even lower levels, here at entities, see only the national structure in the Supreme Court of the Federation of BiH. Surely one of the shortcomings in the judiciary is also a way of monitoring and assessing the work of judges and prosecutors, where they are primarily motivated to achieve a monthly standard, which is why they are not focused on quality but on quantity, i.e. they deal with less complex subjects in order to demonstrate potentially good statistics. It also speaks of the way processes were created and conducted, and the fact that the BiH Constitutional Court has accepted almost all the allegations from the constitutional assessment requirements of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act, as well as the provisions of the Intelligence and Security Agency Act, which provided specific investigative actions, and through the laws were conducted directly in violation of fundamental human rights. In this segment, not to add the financial part that went to the burden of BiH. All negative in the judiciary have been contributed, of course, by several criminal proceedings against the legal holders, as well as by numerous appointments, of course, and by certain affairs. When it comes to a body that has had a fundamental task to establish an independent, impartial and apolitical judiciary, which is VSTV, we must indeed say that the objectives have not been met, and precisely because, among other things, this institution has been established without a system of responsibility. Despite everything said, it should not be disputed that, with all this being said, and what we have heard, both in the second and the judicial institutions, I am convinced, professional, responsible, responsible, hardworking people, who are sitting here today and surely professionally and responsibly doing their tasks and trying to do so in the best possible way, which is in accordance with the Constitution, laws and morality. So what I want to say is that I have stood up and I will continue to advocate, and I believe that everyone here is a common goal, at least we have had the opportunity to hear that, when it comes to the judiciary, that we are in favour of a legal and democratic state, the state of rule of law and law, a state that will guarantee each individual safety and protection from any will, and in particular protection against false registration. A state where judicial institutions must be independent, the 70 jointly with other law enforcement agencies, in particular guaranteeing the fight against all types of crime, particularly organised crime and corruption. A state that will have a zero tolerance rate for all law-abiding entities and have a uniform application of the law and equality of each individual before the law. In addition to all the suggestions, it is necessary to change the Law on VSTV through the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in which in a completely different way the structure would be structured or formed, I would say, the Council itself and which would determine the responsibility of the holder of judicial functions, of course in accordance with the powers and jobs that they have and certainly with the change of other regulations, be material, procedural or organisational nature, meaning the law, as well as by making decisions in accordance with the Constitution, law and morals, I believe that, with such assumptions, they could go towards establishing an independent and impartial judiciary and ultimately to bring us all together to the rule of law and the construction of BiH as a rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5683	Thank you very much. No more reports, closing the hearing. Now we will give our distinguished guests time, if they want to answer questions, suggestions, suggestions and criticisms in the same order as they have spoken and, of course, within this time frame as we agreed at the beginning, because we are waiting for another session after this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5684	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to thank you for the correct conduct of the session, first of all. There's been a lot of debates, there's already five, six hours, as much as I'm going to try to answer all the questions in the shortest time to honor all of you sitting here today. If I had said in the announcement of the session, as it was one of several MPs said, that I was expecting an arena in which there would be different people's labels and I must say that it did begin with Mr Magazinović's move, but fortunately, I am truly positively surprised with most MPs who did not accept such a way of debate, they had very constructive, normal discussions, I would say. But I will begin by order, Mr. Magazinović, who here said it was our job to go out in this House with some kind of killer name. With this, Mr Magazinović, as an MP, showed that he probably does not understand how the justice system works and that neither the VSTS president can say it, nor can he say it____________ [[no microphone turned on]] Allow me, neither can the prosecutor say that, nor can it be said in Parliament, even if he knows, and I don't know, here I don't know if you're interested. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5686	One moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5687	On the other hand, I would invite Mr. Magazinović to, when he came out of this room, all of them, since he used very heavy and large words of the gang, etc. If the murderers were to hide, I would invite him to go out and report those who are hiding because it's a crime of cover-up, and to cover up the murderers, and then, if possible, false reporting is a crime and subject himself to possible prosecution if it were a lie. And in the end and slander, a slander suit if someone decides to sue. Under the protection of parliamentary immunity, saying such things is not appropriate in such a large home. Of course, I can't talk about any individual subject, I believe that most MPs are clear and in the course of things, I won't look back on any individual subject mentioned here. There have been all sorts of discussions here that talk about different aspects of the work of the VSTS. Right away, I didn't hear in the words of the D.A. any threats, I didn't understand them that way, and I'm sorry if anyone experienced it that way, because I'm sure she didn't think so, too. She announced, truth be told, that she would follow both the instructions and the directions of the VSTS in strengthening the fight against corruption, and how it can be done by pressing charges, there is no other way, no one should take that as a threat. Here, by Mr. Mehmedović, it was stated that free jurisprudence is a possible problem. Free jurisprudence is a standard, because it is as such at the end and prescribed by law, without that free conviction we would have a different way of applying the law, which would not allow the judge to freely appreciate the facts and evidence presented in the courtroom. It is, I say, a standard in the entire democratic world, we simply cannot avoid it and ultimately it is prescribed by law. If a formal proof system were to be introduced, it would have to be done by law, but I fear that such a law would indeed be problematic from the aspect of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and could be challenged at the European Court of Human Rights. The tightening of the criminal policy, the representative of Nada Mladina, spoke. I agree with that, and I think that criminal policy really needs to be sharpened, it was really from a letter full of useful suggestions that we can and can appreciate and which we can also talk about and indeed a very, very useful discussion. Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, a MP, one of those who mentioned that I made a statement about what I was expecting, so I already answered that and mentioned the timing of the affair. I have to say that people who work in the judiciary don't recognize the term of the affair, we don't know what the affairs mean, because the affairs are... the expression used publicly in life. As far as justice is concerned, there are cases, and cases exist based on evidence, and I can't talk about any affairs at this time, because it's not my job. And in all the actions and events that have happened in the past, the competent institutions have taken their views on which I can no longer speak. Mr. Helez Zukan, here he spoke and asked the chief prosecutor to arrest this person or whoever, fortunately there is both the VSTS and the judiciary as an independent, so that Mr. Helez doesn't think it's relevant at all. 72 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let me just finish, that's not relevant, and fortunately not using the MP's bench, not even without the MP's bench. What you think someone needs to be arrested is your opinion, but you are not relevant to have an opinion in this regard. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5690	You were heard speaking, Your Honor, let's hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5691	An MP, a politician, is not appropriate, even considered to be a pressure on the judiciary when ordering or proposing to arrest a prosecutor, so, you said - arrest. I've heard that and it's recorded here safely, but it doesn't matter. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let me finish, I patiently listened to you, all of you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5694	Please bring the answer to the end. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5695	Here I go. Also here, Mr. Softić, not to skip it, really had a good discussion about the need for co-operation, the need for symbiosis, I totally agree not to repeat it, because it has everything on it. I don't want to skip anyone, and I think that in everything that you've discussed today, I hope that this will be a new way of co-operation between Parliament and the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council of whoever is in that VSTS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5696	Thank you. If the judge, the President of the Court wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5697	So, without wanting to burden the esteemed representatives with some details, I will try only briefly to look at a few of the neural points that I have noticed and felt the need to answer in individual discussions between the representatives and my colleagues, which, of course, again apply, purely professionally, to the issues the Court of BiH is dealing with. Perhaps I should start at the end, I would refer briefly to Mrs Borjana Krišto's discussion, which at one point in her discussion said that various laws apply to the BiH Court of Justice for members of various nationalities, i.e. the people. Here I categorically argue that this is not true, so it is not a matter of a specific case but of a systemic issue which was resolved as such in 2013 when the ruling of Maktouf–Damjanović was reached in the European Court of Human Rights, after which the BiH Constitutional Court annulled all such judgments and the previous conduct of the BiH Court of Justice in crimes against humanity was supported by the previous, earlier decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court. So, only when the European Court of Human Rights has ordered that the KZ BiH can be used in the qualifications of crimes against humanity, such crimes are subject to the KZ BiH, and for all other crimes, I am talking about the crimes of war crimes, the KZ SFRY applies, and that was the problem. However, the problem has been corrected as a whole, since the Constitutional Court, following that decision by the European Court of Human Rights, has annulled all earlier decisions of the Court of Justice of BiH and has ordered that crime against the civilian population be subject to the KZ SFRY as a law that was in force at the time of the offence. The crime against humanity continues to be committed by the KZ BiH and this is in line with the European Court of Human Rights' decision and is therefore not in any way directed towards members of eat or other nationality. Furthermore, when it comes to the BiH CAP, you are all witnesses, I don't know if this was Parliament's call or earlier, I think it was earlier, that the BiH Constitutional Court is about the appeal, I don't remember whose decision it is that certain provisions of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act are no longer in line with the Constitution. Who was supposed to amend this Code of Criminal Procedure? It is the BiH Parliament, so not the BiH Court, but the BiH Parliament. And let me remind you right before the election, before these last elections, before the constitution of this Parliament's call, the previous assembly of the Parlment has amended these provisions of the BiH CAP concerning, let's put it this way, illegal types of listening, i.e. The BiH Court of Justice has acted in accordance with the principles set out in the Constitutional Court's decision, and after the BiH CAP has been amended, of course, it is acting in accordance with the law. 75 When it comes to the Intelligence and Security Agency Act, this law also contains one part of the provisions that allow the President of the Court to be heard on the proposal of the Director of the Intelligence and Security Agency to carry out certain, under quotes, specific investigative actions, colloktually, and that part has also been established provisions, certain provisions as unconstitutional, not even today. Who should change those provisions, gentlemen? Well, you and I can't wait to change them. Therefore, the Court of BiH cannot be blamed for something that it has applied or does not apply if this Parliament has been ordered to amend the specific provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, or the Intelligence and Security Agency Act. And as far as the Court's jurisdiction is concerned, that jurisdiction was prescribed by Article 7 before it was Article 13. The law on the BiH Court of Justice, I also heard here cometaries saying that this extended jurisdiction of the Court of Justice is applied in a non-selective way. The court cannot establish its own jurisdiction, the Court is based on charges of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, nor can the Court take from any case itself, only those cases presented to him by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. As far as the matter is concerned, counterpart Gordana Tadić's comments, which at one point mentioned the rule, namely the assessment of the BiH Court of Justice. He would not be bothered with the details, the judges of the BiH Court had not previously been evaluated for a verdict in the past, this one, and after that, the VSTV adopted a regulation on the assessment procedure of the holders of judicial functions, and according to that regulation, judges of the BiH Court of Justice, as well as all other courts in BiH, are also being evaluated. There are more details about this Regulation, but I want to say that this is the situation now, so it's not even close to how the chief prosecutor presented it. As far as the financial reports are concerned, that's what's mentioned. According to the VSTV Act, we have all submitted financial reports for years, so I've been in the judiciary since 2004, I think I was before the war, and since 2004, every year I, not only myself, but all my colleagues, have submitted this financial report. And the second question is the publication and verification of these financial reports, there have been some problems with that, not to bother you now, you probably all know about it. So, we all submit, like you in the CEC, that you file financial reports, so we, too, submit them, was only disputed by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so the procedure was pending before the Court of Justice of BiH, who has the right and under what conditions to publish and verify these financial reports, i.e. the Colloquially named property records. And finally, when it comes to the discussion of counterpart Borenović, concerning the verdict of Dušan Janković. I have to say that I don't know the subject, I see it from 2013 I'm familiar with the subject of the Christian Rock, but in particular that's what I said at the beginning, I won't, I can't, I can't, I can't talk about specific objects. kolega Borenović, accused, or convicted in the case, needs to know that they had a complete system of legal medicines from one appeal, other complaints, appeals before the BiH Constitutional Court and finally appeals before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. That's about what I'd say about what the BiH Court is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5698	I thank Mr. Debevc. Chief Prosecutor, here you go. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5699	Now it looks like the last word to me again, I want to thank everyone, the chairman, the chairman, for your representatives at these discussions today. I have listened carefully to them all, and I must say that I have responded to all the calls of this tall body, and I will respond in the future, because I believe this is the only place where I can bring out the right things in the right way. I am also very happy that I received criticism from all of you in the O.R., which means that I am doing the right thing and that there are no people who are satisfied with the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which would be devastating if it were different. Of course, in war crimes cases we have, we always know three sides, one is satisfied, one is not, when we charge one with criticism from the other, when we charge others with criticism from the other, when we charge the third we get criticism from the third, but we're ready to carry out all the criticism, but that the cases are done correctly and based on a valid State strategy for working on war crimes cases, someone seems to be wondering what we're doing now, we're doing based on the current War Crimes Work Strategy. Also, someone mentioned that the prosecutor's job is very difficult, I tell you that this job is not as difficult if it's done 35 years as I do, and I still have a lot of energy to do for a long time in the prosecution's affairs, because the prosecution is one wonderful job that can contribute to all of us for the improvement of BiH. I want to say that we are working under the Constitution and the law and I will not succumb to any pressure while I am at the head of this institution, and I am fourth year head of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and this is the fourth report I submit and the next time, so this parliamentary body for 2019. I answer this so I don't answer the individual inappropriate questions sent to me as chief prosecutor. I know you're being watched by your voters and that you're buying points on this thing today, but I think that, in order for your voters, you have to keep an eye on how to communicate. I may have had a lapus at first, so I said the conference, but in the end, this all seemed like a conference because I don't attend these sessions very often. I also want to point out some more important things, there's no talking about individual objects here, and this isn't the place to talk about living objects. Sir, as I recall, Magazinović was talking about the Memić case. I would like to point out on this occasion that this case is not even completed at the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of Canton of Sarajevo, if it is not finished on the case, it cannot be spoken of. Therefore, the question of whether there are injuries here, today at this session can be spoken of by Mr. Memić, the father of the prodigal son, his sister, his close family, but one of the MPs to buy points today at this session is neither human nor moral. On the other hand, there is a procedure in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, so you know that, and you are familiar with it in connection with organised crime. An order has been given to conduct an investigation, and I can't talk about it either. All that has come out in the media in the last period is not true, it is not true and the BiH Prosecutor's Office will continue to work its case, I am not going to talk about Canton Sarajevo's Prosecutor's Office now, so I am saying that these sessions must have representatives of other prosecutors and D.A.'s institutions in order not to create a confusion, when the prosecutor's office says they all think BiH's Prosecutor's Office. This is very important and is mentioned in Mr. Pribe's report, but this is what we all have to work on, can't be the lives of young people, here we have the subject of Dragičević, the subject of Memić, the cases must be resolved, each within his jurisdiction, the Prosecutor's Office in Republika Srpska in its jurisdiction, and the BiH Prosecutor's Office within that. if there is organised crime in these segments and we are prepared to deal with it and I want to say that the Memić family really suffers a longer period of time, but it is not the place for MPs, or MPs to buy points on such things. 77 I must tell you that my father died in '96. years in a similar way in the livestock, never found who did it, and to this day that case was completed... on the non-implementation of the investigation due to an outdated, absolute age of prosecution, '96. A year, and now you see what year we're in. At that time I justified the justice of my mother and sister, so I said, "Possibly, he ran away, he's gone, he's gone." Now we all really need to get together and get to the real truth in these cases. I speak these two cases because they're also the subject of the Pribe report, but also the subject of buying no one points on the grief of a family that I've repeatedly received in my cabinet. The next way, the next thing I want to point out, it's listed - you're under arrest. What kind of communication is that with the D.A., you arrest? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Arrest... please, we're putting
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5701	Please, no throwing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5702	Proposals... we put in motions to determine detention when they have facts and evidence and that's how we'll work for everyone in the future. We have about 8,000 more persons in the application and investigation, so you must understand that out of 58 prosecutors are in charge of their cases and each of their cases is working. Anyone in this case is working under the law, the Constitution and, of course, the Prosecution Act when it is, is necessary. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We're not gonna cut short. I want to finish this, because you've said a lot today at this session. So, you see, it's very easy to be President of the Court, as at least today at this session, here it seems, no one mentions the President of the Court in this matter. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5705	Please, Mr. Mektić, frequent intrusion is... a problem. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5706	Wait a minute, I want to say one more, I want to say one more, I had no intention of speaking, but given this intrusion. Mr. Mektić, you are one of the defendants, of the six thousand accused in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and use this pay phone for abuse and for your defense. The remaining so many defendants are not able to speak here in the way you speak, I will not discuss it further, and here you are praising the President of the Court for further reasons as you will prove your authority in the Court. I want to thank you one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5707	Please, Parliament, let's be parliamentary, let's hear the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5708	I get this at __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5709	I know it's all right, we have a 15-minute deal as Mr. Tegeltija spoke, so much so can the Honorable Chief Prosecutor, let's be parliamentary. So, frequent entry into the word by the Rules of Procedure can have sanctions, let's not do this this is Parliament and let's wake up, let's save the culture of dialogue and relations. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5710	I thank you once again to all of you, and I must say that the BiH state, i.e. you and all together, have allocated money to build a new BiH Prosecutor's Office building, to upgrade the federal police administration that is under way, is one of the good examples of our joint co-operation. We depend on each other and we must work together, of course within the framework of the law and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-03-11-0.u5711	Okay. Dear representatives of the judicial institutions thank you for your presence, thank you for your participation in this debate. As far as the debate is concerned, we will continue our work at 5:00 p.m., when we speak about the proposed conclusions and the report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and 2018, and after that we will immediately proceed with the 7th regular session, see you at 5:00 p.m. 79 [[PAUZA]] Dear and distinguished MPs and MPs are to vote on the 6th Thematic Session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Given that we have united the debate on all points of the agenda, we will approach the statements according to the order of the proposal of the conclusions, as we have received them, as also the representatives have proposed, and after that we will declare two information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office for 2017 and 2018. I ask you to listen carefully to the conclusions that we should not have to repeat the vote. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Jasmin Emrić. The conclusion is: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Ministry of Justice and the BiH Council of Ministers with adopting an action plan to address shortcomings in the rule of law, implement recommendations and measures contained in a report by experts on the rule of law issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 05.12.2019. So we're pleading on this conclusion. Thank you. So, of the total 35 present - for 21, versus 7, abstentions 7. There is a general, but there is no entity majority. [[/Collegiate consent.]]
