ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5898	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 8th session of the House of Representatives, which begins with the usual anthem. I welcome once again to all Members of Parliament, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers and other guests. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] We have 36 people present, so I was reminded to sign up, and I think there's more of us. The absence was reported by Ms Ljubica Miljanović and Mr Mirsad Kukić, as well as by Finance and Treasury Minister Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda. Since we have a quorum, there are working conditions, just to remind you that between the two sessions we tried to provide technical conditions better than at the last session, they are still not optimal, because what has is a combination of our old technique, as you see new microphones, possible a little discrepancies at the very beginning of work. I welcome the representatives of the information funds, which I would also like to ask them to adapt to the new conditions of our work. In accordance with Article 167. At the beginning of each session, the Rules of Procedure, which we called for, will allow MPs to ask questions before the debate on the agenda. In accordance with the next member, so 168. The rules of procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were submitted by the following MPs: Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Sanja Vulić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Borjan Krišto, Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Predrag Kojović, Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Minister of Communications and Transport, Nenad Stevandić, Minister of Civil Affairs, jasmin Emrić, Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Branislav Borenović, Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Damir Arnaut, Minister of Finance and Treasury. This notification shall be made in accordance with Article 168. The Rules of Procedure were delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would like to remind you that a direct TV transmission of this part of the session has also been provided with Article 167. Rules of Procedure. We can start working. The word is Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5899	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the Council of Ministers. I ask the question to Mr Zoran Tegeltija, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and regarding the current status and functioning of the institution of the Office of Representatives of the Council of Ministers before the European Court of Human Rights with a special emphasis on the current working-2 legal status of agents, and bearing in mind a number of articles in the press several weeks ago which pointed to possible and potential inconsistencies or inconsistencies in the application of labour law, as well as in the functioning of the particular institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5900	Mr. Tegeltija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5901	Members of the working presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, allow me to briefly try to answer the question of Parliament Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. The problem of the mandate of our representatives in the Human Rights Office before the Court in Strasbourg, these members expired long ago in 2019, on several occasions they had extended their mandate and were given the status of V.D. for three months. The last of their mandates is v.d. expired three months in February 2020. After that, there was no readiness in the Council of Ministers from certain political parties to vote to extend the mandate to the same persons who had been given the status of v.d. four times for three months. I'm an agent. I hope that at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, we will achieve agreement to extend the mandate and end the ongoing competition, which is not over. I also want to say that this is a problem for us in our work, and the fact is, of course, that some of the actions of those working there have caused public attention and the need for the police to intervene in their offices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5902	Mrs. Novaković, you have a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5903	Thank you very much. Well, I would just support these efforts to resolve the status as soon as possible, bearing in mind that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have about two thousand cases before the European Court of Human Rights. And secondly, what they really are, here's to saying, to me personally, it seemed rather disturbing to me that the inscriptions that went in the direction that really, uh, didn't happen in an institution like that, that something was happening that was completely inappropriate. And please, here's another suggestion, that unless there is one right now, none of the persons is officially an agent for such things to be arranged on both the website and other publications currently held by the Council of Ministers, which concerns this institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5904	Thank you. Miss Sanja Vulić, also chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5905	Thank you, Chairman. My question is for Mr Tegelti, according to my knowledge, the finance ministry is intensively preparing a bill on the BiH institutions' budget and international 3 commitments to BiH in line with the presidency's conclusion. My question for you is – will the funds for the local elections be provided and available when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5906	The chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5907	Thank you very much. I would like to say that the Council of Ministers established the draft budget and referred it to the BiH Presidency procedure, the moment when we brought the budget and the moment when we prepared it differed significantly from the point of view of the needs and problems that occurred throughout society, including in Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the pandemic of the coronary virus. At the Bureau meeting where I was also present, the conclusion was that the budget of the joint institutions was returned to the Council of Ministers in order to prepare the budget in line with the emerging situation and the needs that arise and the consequences of this pandemic, which we have faced throughout our society. The Bureau's conclusion was that by 31 March the Council of Ministers delivered the draft new budget to the BiH presidency with a proposal to respect this situation and that all unnecessary costs which are not perhaps unnecessary at the moment but there are costs that have a higher level of priorities than those defined in the budget, that we are guided by this. As for the election and financing of local elections, the Council of Ministers' commitment, which it has therefore and in the budget submitted to the BiH presidency, the first one, has defined the position to conduct the local elections precisely in the amount defined. It is certain that this budget, which will also be submitted to the Presidency, and then also to the Parliamentary Assembly, will include the planned funds for the elections. If, of course, there are some difficulties with the adoption of the budget, I must tell you that the Council of Ministers has the opportunity to make the necessary decision to provide the means to implement the selection and if we are in a temporary financing system. My appeal is primarily to the Central Election Commission to continue all the electoral cuts necessary to conduct local elections and to leave the financing problem to the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5908	Thank you. Commentary, Miss Vulić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5909	Thank you, Chairman. Well, given that I know how responsible you are and a professional man I never doubted the answer would be negative. However, what is important and important to point out, is that we have an unusual phenomenon here, probably unusual in the world, which is that one illegally elected president of the CEC is blackmailing, not only over the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, but is blackmailing the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including this House. So here I am suggesting to our colleagues, who supported the violation of the law, that today I have quite accidentally learned that the president of the CEC and the sister-in-law of a colleague of the SDA is married to your colleague, so that mostly when they come into a new family, they are trying to be obedient and good, so at least explain to her that she has no right to blackmail Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that 98% of the municipalities and cities have provided the funds needed to conduct the local elections. These funds that need the Council of Ministers, i.e. that the Council of Ministers to provide security will be available and they are not necessary at this time for the lady to behave in such a way as to blackmail, blackmail us and bring us all into a position not to go into the process of conducting local elections. Given that you colleagues from the SDA are one of the strongest, at least I think so, political parties in the Federation, I think it is also your interest to have local elections held and, if so, I believe that you will suggest that you finally give deadlines and Rules of Procedure, and start elections. Because I don't know who's interested in holding the elections for svet Nikola. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5910	Thank you, Miss Vulić. The word is from Mrs Borjana Krišto, vice-president, to the Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5911	Thank you very much. Hello to you, chairman, to all colleagues and colleagues and all distinguished guests at today's session of the House of Representatives. Here is how it is announced that I will go first with an explanation, unfortunately we are witnessing these days of inappropriate and malicious attacks on the model Cardinal Vinko Puljić, as well as at the Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina because of a sacred mass that should be commemorated in the Sarajevo cathedral in memory of the innocent victims of the Bleibur tragedy. This orchestrated attack on Cardinal Puljić and an attempt to portray the sacred mass of innocent Bleibur victims as a provocation and attempt to rehabilitate the constitution is actually nothing but an insult to religious rituals, a restriction of freedom of religion in which the right to serve the Holy Mass for the deceased, a violation of fundamental human freedoms, and thus an attempt to ban the memory of innocent victims. The European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Article 9 sets out - everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion and whether alone or together with others is publicly or privately expressing faith or belief in prayer, preaching, customs or ritual. The BiH Constitution also guarantees religious freedoms in Article II. I would also like to remind you that the basic treaty between the Holy See and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, respecting internationally recognised principles of separation of faith and the state of freedom of faith, was concluded by the Holy See and BiH, which, among other things, stated in Article 4, recognises the Catholic Church and its communities of any ceremony of freedom to carry out its apostolic mission, especially in the matter of worship, administration, teaching and the activity of society. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Treaty also guarantees the Catholic Church freedom to perform deities and the guarantee inviolability of a place for the worship of churches, chapels, and additional church spaces. That is why my question is for the Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees to answer me – What has the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees continued to do, what is it intended to do to organise an attack on religious rights and freedoms, the human rights of the model Cardinal Vink Puljić, as well as the religious feelings of Catholics and Croatian peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because 5 of these attacks have actually been violated by the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, the provisions of the Constitution of BiH and the provisions of the Fundamental Treaty between the Holy See and BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5912	Thank you. Mr. Dževad Mahmutović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5913	Honored chairman, MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers and Guests. I thank Mrs. Krišto for this question, and in answer I can say this, that we are testifying, you are all witnessing whether, uh, mass has been announced these days, whether, in the Sarajevo cathedral led by Cardinal Vinko Puljić. This announcement caused a storm of public reactions aimed at the Catholic Church and Cardinal Puljić. Protests have been organised, forms of public protest are announced against the maintenance of it. We in the ministry have requested information from the archbishop of the topboscan about what is being prepared, who is the organizer and everything that is related to the maintenance of this announced mass. The information signed by Cardinal Puljić says that the Mass is being organised for victims of the Crossroad, who were killed without a court of law and terribly massacred. The mission due to the situation with the coronary virus will be served in the cathedral in Sarajevo without the presence of the believers. In the submitted material, the cardinal stressed that a political and media hack, particularly from the presidency gentlemen, he said, Mr Bakir Izetbegović and Željko Komšić, created a climate of impatience, according to the cardinal, where his life and so many Catholics were threatened, according to him. Cardinal Puljić's information says they can't work to calm these tensions because we don't have media that equally value arguments. Kardinal Puljić has fenced himself from the created climate, and according to him, he has also met the svet stolica on everything. I would like to remind you here that according to our Law on Freedom of Faith in Article 4(3), in addition to this, whether, in addition to these reasoned facts presented here, Cardinal Puljić, Article 4(3) of the Law on Freedom of Faith states that churches and religious communities must not act with their content and manner of performing religious rituals and other manifestations of faith that are contrary to the legal order, public security, morality, but also to the harm of life and health, that is to say, to the harm of the rights and freedoms of others. Unfortunately, under the same law, this ministry has no opportunity to act either because of the threat to the rights and the slogans of the organizers of the mass, nor because of the endangerment of the rights and freedoms of others who are clearly at risk. Because of all this, but also the inability to do anything else, we informed the Ministry of Security about these allegations and asked them to take measures under their jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5914	Thank you. Commentary, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5915	6 I thank you for the answer, which I am of course not pleased with or near, by the reply of the Deputy Minister for Human Rights and Refugees, and I ask the Minister to provide me with an answer in writing. I condemn every crime anyone has committed and at any time, but we must allow every innocent victim to have the right to pite. When we talk about the Bleiburg tragedy and the Crossroad, we must not forget that the lives of entire families are marked by this crime that no one has ever been responsible for, so in this way has not been legally valorized, even one innocent victim is that she was killed on the crossroad from Austria to Macedonia she deserves a drink and a holy mass. For a reminder, Minister, when you spoke the 50th anniversary of the Bleiburg Tregedia and the Crossroad, it was marked in Sarajevo's memorial and wedding and prayer. After 75 years we can rightly ask ourselves – are they other people, is it someone else Sarajevo or is it another time? We know time is someone else, so instead of dealing with what is Parliament's jurisdiction and the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we hit on the autonomy of the Catholic Church, religious freedoms, we turn away from the important topics that should be dealt with, from various affairs, diplomats, Asim affair, non-transparent and illegal spending of taxpayers' money 10.5 million marks in the Respiratori affair, etc. We have a story like this today and an answer like this. Let us all imagine, everything we do we will do with love to all the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to drink to all the victims of all the totalitarian regimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5916	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kojović, has a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5917	I thank the chairman and welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, as well as all those present. With one part of the question I wanted to ask about funding local elections was answered, I would only remind myself of the 14-day legal deadline that has run since the elections were announced in order to make the money, whether the funds for local elections had to be transferred to adequate accounts. My question is now about the following – has the Council of Ministers done and what, or plans to do, at the implementation of a verdict which is ordered to hold elections in Mostar? So whether the Council of Ministers is working or planning to work on amendments and amendments to the Election Law that would allow the Mostar elections to be held for the first time in 12 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5918	The word is Mr. Tegelti.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5919	Thank you very much for asking. As far as funding is concerned, I guess we understand that in half of May today, no one needs money for the elections, we don't know why we're conditioning something, and this is once again an invitation to define all the actions necessary for political parties, individuals and all those who think about the local elections to be prepared, and the Council of Ministers will provide the part of the money that belongs, i.e. belongs to the burden of the Council of Ministers relating to local elections. As for holding local elections in Mostar, what I am saying from, on the basis of my personal information, is not by the Central Election Commission or any other body in Bosnia and Herzegovina so far has not come up with any information that it needs to be done by the Council of Ministers in order to hold local elections in Mostar. Of course, I will at least take the opportunity to verify this information, this question of yours, and I will inform you in writing, I apologize for not being able to answer this question more precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5920	Thank you. Mr. Kojović, comment. There isn't. Okay, thank you. The next question is from an MP, Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Please, the question is addressed to the Minister of Communications and Transport.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5921	I thank and also welcome all those present, and my question is about the selection of the Director of the Communications Regulatory Agency, so it was sent to the Minister of Communication. Since we have been witnessing that lately there has been a great rush to appoint a director, even though we know that even individual directors have conducted two terms of office without conducting a competitive procedure. So, I would specifically like to ask how it will be appreciated in the selection of directors, i.e. appointments, since we know that the proposed candidate Draško Milinović, is to be appreciated by the creteries of certified management capabilities which, therefore, are the criteria set out in the Communication Act for the Director to be elected, means that this is one of the conditions, since it was a person who was the director of the Public TV Service, whose mandate and for whose directorship was given 19 executive measures by the same and the Regulatory Agency for Communications, and even the gentleman had a personal, means a fine as a responsible person, and we see that the Law, therefore, has established the criteria of certified management facilities. I would also point out here that the RAC Council, therefore the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, has been working for the third year, and its mandate, therefore, expired on 27.12., seems to me in 2018 and on 23.12.2017, the mandate of the RAC Council and the RAC Council is to continue, since Parliament has not taken a decision to initiate the competition procedure, and we have also witnessed that, following this proposal for the appointment of the Director addressed by the RAC Council, the President of the Council has resigned. So my question is – How will it be appreciated, therefore, that the conditions of the proposed candidate listed in the Communication Law are met?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5922	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vojin Mitrović, Minister of Communications and Transport. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5923	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear MP Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic has asked a question that she has explained on her own, referring to the implementation of the competition procedure and the delivery of the proposal by the Director-General of the Regulatory Agency for Communications to the BiH Council of Ministers for Confirmation. In its question, and later in its explanation, the honourable MP also gave a reply on the jurisdiction of the procedure itself, the call for competition, the conduct of procedures and the election of the Director-General, but I will point out here that the Regulatory Agency for Communications is independent and that is defined by the Communications Act so that the Ministry does not participate in the process of conducting a competition procedure for the selection of the Director-General of the Communications Regulatory Agency. The competition procedure, as you yourself have stated, has been defined by Article 39 and 40 of the selection of the Director-General of the Regulatory Agency for Communications by the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and in accordance with Article 40. The Communication Act provides a proposal from the Director-General to confirm the Council of Ministers. According to the previous one, taking into account the Communication Act and what you have stated, it is clear that the Ministry is not responsible and we have forwarded the above question to Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić to the Regulatory Agency for Communication on the supply of explanations, because I see here that we are looking for details about the competition procedure itself and certain details, after providing answers from the RAC, we will forward the same answer to the Council of Ministers for consideration and determination, so that in this case you will be given the answer. So, the Ministry of Conduct does not really have any authority under the Communication Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5924	Thank you. Mrs. Lepić, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5925	So my comment is does this mean that any proposed candidate would be accepted because the Ministry only confirms, therefore, or takes into account the reasons of the RAC Council and whether or not the candidate has met the legal requirements? So in this sense, I am absolutely dissatisfied with the answer because it results in a decision on the candidate being made even if all the legal conditions are not respected. I hope that when this decision is made, of course, there is an explanation and, therefore, all the confirmation that the candidate meets the requirements and that the Ministry will still take account of it, but here when I get the written one, I hope I get a written answer, so we'll see what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5926	Thank you. We continue, Mr Nenad Stevandić has a word and has a question for the minister of civil affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5927	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. 9 For the Minister of Civil Affairs, Ankica Gudeljević. Question – why does the minister of civil affairs violate the national structure of employees at the expense of the Serb people? What makes this ministry seem dysfunctional? At the position of the secretary of the so far was a person of the order of the Sprš people who, when she went into pregnancy, was appointed a person of the order of the Croatian people without any consultation, completely arbitrary, and the practice so far was that similar jobs were always filled with persons from the same people, and with consultation. According to the Internal Organisation Regulation of the Ministry of Civil Affairs in position 02-2.3, there is also the job of a minister's adviser, one executive, who is not filled and which the minister currently refuses to fill even though he has the means and at the time of the pandemic it would be good if the cabinet were functional. At the same time, it contests the appointment of advisers in the deputy cabinet. In addition, she managed to hire three at second function by making a trick to the variant that first whoever you want to hire, so that you end up hiring those in the line of counsel. This has not been done before and the Ministry is not private property, does not involve private decision-making and does not involve discrimination but co-operation, co-operation and responsibility. In addition, on 01.05, you appointed another adviser to the BiH cabinet of ministers from the Croatian people and thus filled the cabinet with three advisers, while in the deputy's cabinet you dispute the completion. Therefore, the minister of civil affairs by appointing and contesting advisers in the cabinet of the deputy minister and the appointment of the secretary by his personal assessment violates the national employment balance and makes this the ministry dysfunctional. Your Honor, this is for now, and on trade in influence, violation of legal processes and criminal and legal responsibility, I'm going to do it another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5928	Thank you. The word is from the minister of civil affairs, Mrs Ankica Gudeljević.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5929	The Honorable President, the Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives. The accusation that I'm violating the national structure of the Ministry of Civil Affairs absolutely doesn't stand. When it comes to the position of the Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, no one from outside has been admitted to that position. The secretary is currently on sick leave, she will return to her post and is still an employee of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Speaking of national balance, I must point out that of the nine secretaries in the Council of Ministers, two are Hrvat. And to introduce you to the national structure of the Ministry of Civil Affairs that I found and haven't changed anything. 48.9% is Bošnjak, 11.5% is Hrvat, 37.5% is Srbin, 2.1% are others. As for the fill-in, or fill-in of cabinets, I must stress that so far both cabinets have not been fully filled, which means the cabinet of the minister, i.e. my cabinet, and the cabinet of deputies are not fully filled in because the instructions for budget users are limited to the number of employees in the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which makes it impossible for us to complete filling the still-repeated positions in both cabinets. For your information, the current fill-in of the deputy cabinet is 80%, and the current fill-in of the cabinet of the minister is 60%. So much for me for now.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5930	Thank you. 10 Comments from Mr. Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5931	Well, Madam Secretary just confirmed everything I said. She did not fill the cabinet of ministers and deputy ministers, but in 01/05 she appointed another advisor to the cabinet who had not... and had just violated the national balance and had not denied anything that after she had gone to a pregnant hospital in one nation, she had appointed a person from another people. If you need more Croatian positions, I will raise my hand in order for the cabinet of the minister to be functional, but if you tell us after so much time that you have failed to form a cabinet, not your own or your deputy, you have shown that you do not know how to do your job. And I'm saying, about this second, everything I've said is true, and about this second, we'll find where your responsibility is also beyond doubt. And your incompetence can't be a way to block the ministry's work, or do your job quality, or don't argue with others who would want to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5932	Thank you. The word has jasmin Emrić, the issue was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5933	I thank the chairman. The question I ask the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers is whether and how did the Republic of Croatia inform the authorities and institutions of the forest cut by the Croatian Forests Company d.o.o. on the Plješevica mountain in the area of the former airport Želja near the town of Bihaća? Article 7(3) of the Treaty on the State Border between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, which is provisionally applicable from the date of signature of 30.07.2019, provides for the following: Contracting Parties may, at any time, carry out the works provided for in the instructions set out in Article (1) of this Article, but must inform the other Contracting Party at least ten days before the beginning of the works. The border between our country and the Republic of Croatia on this part is not specified or clearly marked, and it is disputed that Croatian forests have unilaterally approached the forest without a previously marked border, which is within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commission for Borders. It is obvious that there is a dispute over the identification and withdrawal of the border line in this area of the former airport of Željav because Article 2(2) of the Treaty found that the state border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia is determined on the ground through the border between the border-side catastrian municipalities, in particular the Municipality of Baljevac in the town of Bihac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5934	Thank you. Mr. Tegeltija, chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5935	Thank you very much for asking. 11 Very unusual and a question and, not to tell anyone, a little surprising. I think we've been recording 20 years since the signing of the BiH-Croatia border treaty. The truth is that this Treaty has not been ratified and that all necessary actions could not be carried out when it comes to the identification of the border. A few years ago, I also worked at the BiH Borders Commission a dozen years ago and when it came to border talks, there were some controversial points we discussed, starting down from the far south, in Neum area, all the way up to the north about the most controversial point around Costa Rica, but never before did the border line issue arise, that the disputed border line in the area of the airport. I received this question in the afternoon yesterday, and I really tried to check what was going on and according to the information that I received, which I wanted to share with you, that the Public Business of the Un-San Forest had turned to the border police of BiH that the forests of Croatia were being carried out in this area for which the Un-San Forests estimated to represent their zone, i.e. to say, their property, the forests cannot be owned by a public enterprise we know that. Oranizovan meeting on the part of Bosnia and Herzegovina was organised, where the border police and representatives of the UN-San Forest Public Enterprise, and representatives of the interior ministry, namely the Croatian and Croatian Forests, appeared. And as it always happens in a good way, when the boundaries around the forest are established, it's as if in private, the cuter says it cuts in its forest, and the other one claims to cut in its forest. So, unfortunately, this is a state border issue, but that's exactly what it turned out to be. On the table were maps brought by the company of the UN-San forest, which was certified by the Federal Board of Geodesy and Property Legal Affairs as valid borders, and on the other hand by the Croatian Forests showed maps that also verified their Geodesy Administration of Croatia and showed a lack of border in one part of the area, i.e. it was not possible to determine who owned those forests in the area. The deal was to suspend the work temporarily, to define the issue. Through the Ministry of Security, the border police forwarded this issue to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to resolve it through notes with the Republic of Croatia where we are, and also forwarded the BiH Borders Commission to try to identify this point, whether there is a disputed issue of the border line. According to information that exists today from the Border Police, I am, of course, talking about the information that was yesterday from the Border Police, there are currently no works being done and I hope that in the near time period, these so far-disputed border lines between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia will be identified. Thank you very much, if there is any further information I will inform you in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5936	Thank you. Mr. Emrić, you have the right to comment for one minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5937	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for this response. Of course, I support all these activities that are already under way, and therefore given the urgency of cutting down the forests in Plješevica, I am also taking the opportunity to call on the Council of Ministers of BiH and BiH's competent institutions as well as the Presidency to officially ask the authorities of the Republic of Croatia to stop cutting into this area until this issue of the border line and border is finally resolved, determines that the border is indisputable, and that only then can any work that is near the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina be done. Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5938	Thank you. National MP Branislav Borenović has a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5939	Thank you. Here, it will now be nearly half a year since you took over the leadership of the BiH Council of Ministers as the key institution of the executive government in the joint BiH institutions. There is an objective impression that the work of the Council of Ministers is invisible and that it does not produce certain results, that you do not work or that this may be the result of non-transparentity in your work. Although you have announced at one of the first sessions that you will be fully open to the work of the Council of Ministers and to the media and to citizens, there is no you, we do not hear your views, there are no comments and what can be read is very insufficient. Especially keep quiet about the current developments lately, and I think as chairman of the Council of Ministers you should give maximum quality information on everything concerning both the Council of Ministers and joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with your competences. What is particularly worrying is the fact that we do not have answers to key questions about certain strategic documents from you. We can't get to the contents of those documents. We have asked a few questions, and I think it is quite logical that if you participate in the creation of a financial document concerning BiH's letter of intent towards the International Monetary Fund which this country and these citizens owe 330m euros, that this content of the Scriptures be made available, not that we are looking for it and that we are getting through some media channels, which in any case raises the question of the authenticity of such documents. You've probably met, you should be familiar with a document that has its strategic commitment, it's the BiH Reform Programme as the first annual document to activate the MAP, an action plan for NATO membership. We do not officially have the content of this document today, no matter how many times we have asked you and as MPs, there is still no official document confirming the authenticity of this Annual Programme, the obligation and the strategic commitment in which you were likely to participate, and probably has a significant and perhaps the greatest role of the Council of Ministers of BiH with certain members of your cabinet, without saying this part relating to financial engagements. You are probably familiar with one and the other, do you intend to publish it, put on the official pages of the BiH Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5940	Time, Mr. Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5941	..to be available to citizens, or you intend to continue with that practice which is quite, quite intransparent...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5942	Two minutes. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5943	And what requires a change?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5944	Mr. Chairman, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5945	Thank you very much for asking the question, although it seems to me that there have been more comments here than questions, so if my answer is not quite accurate, you will understand that it is determined by the way the question is asked. There is no one who has not received it or who has not seen it. At the request of your official to deliver this document, I forwarded it to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury to deliver it to you because you well know Mr. Borenović when we were working on some other positions, that you were always asking me as Minister of Finance, I thought you needed this to be officially delivered to you by Mr. Bevanda. The Ministry of Finance's position is to deliver it anyway to the Chairman of the Fiscal Council and I did it, just delivered... A letter of intent, and I think it's available to everyone. Asking me to deliver the Reform Programme that adopted the Presidency that you make sure the document is authentic is not realistic because you have to ask for a document from whoever adopted it that unless you believe in those documents that are placed at your disposal. As the Council of Ministers works, there is a situation where the Council of Ministers is assessed, we work absolutely publicly and transparently and there is no document that we adopt that is not available to the public and every time it is. If... you think this story too, that I should have been in public especially during the Corona period, I think politicians shouldn't have filled this space, but that they should have done their job and what they were expected to do. I was just acting like one, and so was the Council of Ministers. All the obligations that were made before the Council of Ministers, above all from the health sector which is the bearer of this panemy fight, we have literally respected the situation of controlling the entry of both our citizens and foreign citizens, to the situation of providing additional financial resources for the health sector because we know that they are currently spending a huge amount of funds, significantly outside their budget and you are witnessing that an agreement has been signed and that 66 million KM has been provided for the health sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have provided our line of gain because at one point it looked like the whole transport would stop and today you have no problem with the lack of any goods, nor raw materials or goods of broad consumption, and we have provided, through our negotiations, arrangements worth 700m euros in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of which 600m euros will be operational by the end of the sixth month of 2020. Maybe we could do better, it could always be better, but the Council of Ministers did whatever was necessary and what was in his jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5946	Thank you. Mr. Borenović's commentary. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5947	So now you see how much of the question was in place, because I have a feeling that we are witnessing a number of affairs happening in your cabinet by your ministers and deputy ministers who objectively violated measures and health recommendations during this pandemic, which has been proven in numerous cases where they have had various parties and parties in restaurants, roared at citizens and neighbors and thus mocked all those who consistently respect health recommendations and measures. For my best interest, I wanted to remind you of what you promised on December 30th when you publicly said that you had made a decision on the need to open a session for the public, that your commitment to open the Council of Ministers is open to the public and that you have no technical and... opportunities, but that you will solve this within 60 days so that opening a session for the public is of the greatest benefit to citizens and journalists. I have a feeling that you are burdened with a number of affairs that we are listening to today through these parliamentary issues and that the Council of Ministers has absolutely not responded to that key task that, as one serious, crucial, executive institution in the joint institutions of BiH, is helping both the citizens and the peoples living in this country, but has simply been involved in various affairs that have resulted from your work in the last six months.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5948	Thank you. The word is by MP Damir Arnaut, who points out the question of Finance and Treasury Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5949	Thank you, Madam Chairman, State MP. My question to BiH Finance Minister Bevanda about the total cost of the VIP salon services that Bosnia and Herzegovina officials from the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so, ministries, Presidencies, Council of Ministers, these Parliamentary Assemblys, etc., spend at airports in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and around the world. The issue has been offered by the fact that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been taking over from the foreign ministry for some time now regarding the cost of using the VIP salon at airports by the leadership of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. These are really huge amounts, given that they get half an hour to stay in one room instead of another, while the official is waiting for the plane. For example, Mr Dragan Čović of the House of Peoples and Mrs Borjana Krišto spent 1,039 euros in the airport in Zagreb, so these are the amounts of invoices delivered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and in January, Mr Zvizdić spent only one stay in Brussels with a delegation, the use of the VIP salon there cost 2,117 euros. In addition to the fact that it is only evident from this that the VIP salon in Zagreb costs twice as cheap as the one in Brussels, my question for the finance minister, I have already sent it through written channels, but interestingly, I haven't received a response for months – what is the total amount paid during 2019 and earlier years starting in 2015 on behalf of the use of the VIP salon by BiH officials at airports around the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5950	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. No Mr. Bevanda, is there a deputy? 15 there isn't. We'll remind Mr. Bevanda to give you a written reply if you agree with Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5951	Here, for the record, so I'm asking to get an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5952	Okay, thank you. We're moving on to the agenda. Before that, I want to remind you at 12:45 there will be a break by 13 o'clock... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Until 14, yes, yes. From 12 to 45 to 14. So we have another half hour to work and move on to the agenda. When it comes to changes to the agenda, I remind you, we added to the agenda: Point 3. Confirmation of the appointment of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of Ministers of BiH, number: 01/7-34-1-93420 of 12.05.2020. The agenda is supplemented by point 14. - Proposal for a law on the election of judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH, previously elected by the President of the European Court of Human Rights, MPs: Nebojša Radmanović, Snježana Novaković Bursać, Nenad Stevandić, Nenad Nešić, Jakov Galić, Obren Petrović, Dragan Bogdanić, Sanja Vulić, Ljubica Miljanović, Borjana Krišto, Nikola Lovrinović, Mijo Matanović, Predrag Kožul and Darijana Filipović, issue: 01-02-1-550/20 of 25. 02. In 2020 (first reading), with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission; I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. MP Dženan Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5954	I thank the chairman. I warmly welcome you colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the BiH Council of Ministers, respected media representatives. As regards this item of the agenda, I propose a proposal to supplement and amend the agenda of the 8th Regular House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on 15.05.2020, based on Article 71 (1) of the supplementation and amendment of the agenda and of the article 72th adoption of the agenda of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and on behalf of the Club, I propose the next addition and amendment of the agenda of this House which reads : 16 Proposal for a decision on the selection and termination of the function of the Central Election Commission member of BiH No 01-50-1-15-7/20 of 1103.2020. It is a mandatory agenda point and it is a point that goes according to business procedures in the second round, the second round of voting. In this regard, I expected this item to be included in the agenda of the regular session because it was a mandatory agenda point that should not be left out. Since it is not on the agenda, in accordance with Article 72, I have submitted this proposal in writing with the material in the explanation that you have all received and I am asking Mr. Chairman to vote on this proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5955	Thank you. The word is Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5956	Thank you. Citiram – the third Saturday of May, 16 May, in Blyburg, Zagreb and Sarajevo will be held a memorial for the victims of the Bleiburg Tragedy and the Croatian Crossroad. The programme would begin by laying the crowns in Blyburg and praying with the presence of the Croatian Ambassador to Austria as a representative of the state summit. At Mirogo, prayer would be held and the weddings would be passed, instead of the Bleiburg Mass World, held in the Sarajevo Cathedral. The patron of this event will be the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. All this is a quote, said Mr. Gordan Jandroković, president of the Parliament. His clear opposition to this event as Mr Jandroković calls it, whose mass in the Sarajevo cathedral tomorrow is one of the parts opposed the embassies of our friendly and democratic states of the United States and Israel. The Jewish community in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Simon Vizental Centre, the World Jewish Congress and numerous anti-fascist organisations, as well as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To be clear, this is a direct occasion and motive for our party-Independent bloc club to propose a resolution on respect for victims of the Ustasha regime, which is universally recognized throughout the world by its fascist and criminal character. The text of the proposed Resolutions you all received. It is clear, concrete, not telling the Catholic Church what to do, but putting focus on the message to the Republic of Croatia. According to us, the very clear choice, this event, as Mr Jandroković called it, was to be held in Sarajevo tomorrow. The sponsor of this event is the Assembly of the Neighbouring State and we have learned about the event from the president of the Parliament. Gordan Jandroković has been telling us for weeks what will be in Sarajevo. Today, to be clear to everyone, we are faced with only one question, will Bosnia and Herzegovina tell him what we think about it? Yesterday, this proposal was not supported by an extended College. The agreement was not given by HDZ, SNSD and SDA. Mr. Radmanović voted against it himself. At the end of this resolution, it is said that it is signed by the chairman of the House of Representatives, it is you, Mr. Radmanović, and you have had the opportunity to enter history as chairman of whose signature stands on the Resolution and condemnations of the so-called Independent States of Croatia. Not only did you miss that opportunity, but you raised your hand against it. The BiH presidency has not responded in a concrete way. All of us today will, with our voices, but also with our moves, send a message that will be heard clearly around the world, do not have any doubts about it, around the world. It will also be clear who really wanted this resolution to be adopted, who really wanted to send a clear message today because of what was going to happen tomorrow, and who did everything that was the other way around. Some amendments, if implemented on the agenda, will be well-intentioned, with 17 aimed at strengthening that message, sending that message today for tomorrow. Some other amendments will be written in order to bring down the resolution, will deal with matters that Gordan Jandroković himself did not deal with, the sponsor of the event scheduled for tomorrow, in the middle of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the middle of Sarajevo. No Niko will be able to hide their true intentions, not only in their own voices, but also in their own actions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5957	Thank you. Miss Sanja Vulić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5958	Thank you, Chairman. So first, let me tell you both the secretary and this secretary, Kenan, who keeps writing us some emails, the transmission is impossible, I just got a message that the transmission is not working, so the citizens don't have the opportunity to follow this session, it's always something that shows that the Internet isn't right and everything else, so you know about the next session to solve the technique, because it's not impossible. And when it comes to the agenda, when we are talking about CEC members, I simply have the need to meet my colleagues, because you think I have, we have had a number of hands, we have had most of ours, and that is, that is, your right to think, and it is my right as someone I have chosen to fight to prove that you have broken both the law and the Constitution, or the Dayton Peace Agreement, and on the wings of this I have sent letters to the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, because their countries are signatories of the Dayton Peace Agreement and have finely informed them where you and in which member you have violated the Constitution by illegal appointment of CEC members at the meeting. I also sent letters to all the ambassadors of the OSCE, the Amerikanac you so swear to be your associate and everything else, and we'll see who's on the side of whether there's a large number of handcuffs at that moment or, uh, or whether they're on the side of the law and Dejton, or the Constitution. So given what counterpart Đonlagić suggested, I suggest the following, that on the basis of article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the Representatives' House of Representatives shall be taken out, which shall be read as follows – the decision on the election and entry into office shall be taken out of force by the members of the Central Election Commission adopted at the 7th session of the House of Representatives, held on 11 March, the number and published in the "Official Messenger" number: 18/20 and the decision shall take effect on the day of its adoption and shall be published immediately in the "Official Messenger". And not as you wrote there, which I cannot believe so many lawyers and that, you wrote – the decision comes into force immediately. It can't go into effect right now, it's logical, but you know better because at that point, you had a majority. The argument will also go, given that, in accordance with BiH Election Law at the 2nd session of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, held on 03.02.2020, the appointment of three members of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs was carried out between members of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives in the Commission for Election and Designation in accordance with the provisions of Article 2.5(1) of the BiH Election Law, that a constitutional session of the Commission was held on 26.02.2020 for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission, in accordance with Article 2.5(1) and (5) of the BiH Electoral Law in the "Official Messenger", a decision on the opening of a public competition for the election and appointment of members of the Central 18th Election Commission of BiH of 10.03. The Central Election Commission has launched a public competition for the election and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission. The bottom line of this argument is that the Commission needs to finish its work, get back into the law frameworks, respect Dejton, or the Constitution, because you gentlemen are telling all of us young people that we should have a prosperous country, how we need this, how we need this, and you are setting an example of how the laws are being violated, and you gentlemen who voted "yes". As much as my colleague Arnaut, who constantly has some proposals for new laws and other things, has not voted in favour of the selection of CEC members. Why? Because he knows the law and he doesn't want to take part in the destruction of the law. Uh, by this example of yours, if the citizens want to follow us and
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5959	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5960	Time, but where's the time, I don't see the time, nor did you provide us with it. Anyway, I'm proposing this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5961	Finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5962	agenda, let all members of the Central Election Commission be re-elected.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5963	Before continuing, I remind you there's time for and three minutes to discuss and everyone's trying to skip it. For her word, said Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5964	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5965	Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't see. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dženan Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5966	The Honored Chairman, therefore, when the amendment and addition of the agenda is proposed, the Rules of Procedure explicitly say that there is no need to elaborate the essence of the issue, but only to propose amendments and additions to the agenda. So, this elaborate is out-of-work and it wasn't necessary, so I could elaborate on why I suggest an amendment and a supplement, but if we stick to the Rules of Procedure, then only the amendment and the addition and the name of the point without an elaborate is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5967	Thank you, we understand. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Zlatan Begić. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5968	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it is without intent, and in the wake of what counterpart Đonlagić said, that I am going into any controversy and that we are going into endless outsmarts here, but I would really like to warn some colleagues and colleagues here, I usually do not deal with appearances, but if we need to point out whether or not it is, to refrain from making easy statements, that something is unconstitutional, that something is illegal, that something is criminal. And I'd like to ask, we see someone calling on the presidents of neighbouring countries to interfere with internal relations in BiH, if any of the Bošnjak will call Redžep Tajib Erdoan. By doing so, and those who are, so do not be careful that they are signatories, while you are already throwing behind your post, is direct evidence, without the intention of me entering any controversy of that nature, direct evidence of the country's involvement in the conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it does not give anyone the right to interfere in Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal relations and thus violates the constitutional legal order of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the rest of us will see who we turn to, I don't know if we have a president of the supplemental and extra. So indeed in the best of intentions, since we have three difficult years ahead of us, we will have to make difficult decisions here, to refrain from difficult qualifications. There is a court in this country, all those who believe that they are damaged by any decision have the possibility of judicial protection of their rights. The same court against which referendums are discussed, or attempts to discuss referendums, can in this case protect the rights of all those who feel affected by any decision of this institution, of course at... level. Don't let us take the role of the court here and make explicit claims that something is unconstitutional, illegal, etc. So that I would not further elaborate, and also I would like to adhere to the Rules of Procedure, if anyone has dilemmas about this, I am very happy to put myself at the disposal of having this whole legal situation, although I believe that the elected representatives who are sitting and MPs, of course, who are sitting in these benches, should get acquainted with the legislation and then realize that this Parliament and this body should have done this long ago because of the smoking, the doing of the duties of the committees and the responsible individuals, the blocking of Parliament, and then sometimes all this can be returned as a boomerang just this way. Of course, all in accordance with the law and the Constitution and once again I ask you to refrain from difficult qualifications, there are courts in this country that can decide and apologize if I have exceeded the time foreseen for discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5969	...on the monitor of your time you're talking, most of you are out of time, and I'm still slightly warning about it, we have a large agenda, but for this reported large number of participants, please stick to the planned time, so there should be no exclusion. Correction of the wrong quote, Miss Sanja Vulić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, my colleague Đonlagić is absolutely right, I do not respect the Rules of Procedure, but you, too, a colleague, did not respect the law, you violated it. Yes, I reminded Mr. Džaferović of 2012. The 20 years that his statement was, is here is broken and the law and the Constitution is in your interest not to talk about it anymore, to keep quiet, that the CEC will shut up and you will then, okay, that's how it went. Gentlemen, feel free to remain silent, I have the right to speak, I know perfectly what my rights and the Declaration of Human Rights are defined and this Rules of Procedure, but if you, who are to set an example for me, violate the law, violate the Constitution of this country, expect me to respect the Rules of Procedure, so forgive me, you are not a tutor and you will not give me guidance, I will do what I believe, which I am entitled to, and you are suing me if you consider me to be wrong. And in 2012, when the topic of the CEC was Mr. Džaferović, who in general in Bosnia and Herzegovina is known as one of the best law-makers, the Constitution and the like, said – the election process is under way and there are no procedures when the appointments are concerned, it says clearly in the law. So today we do not need to plead, as far as I am concerned, and as far as I understand the Electoral Law mandate for people who are formally due to the election period due to this legal provision, it is practically until the election process is over. I will also remind you that Mrs. Čolo in 2012 was a candidate for a member of the Central Election Commission, not appointed overnight in this House, as you did. Mrs. Čolo, why did you sign up for the competition, you didn't have, did you, a support fellow here to just vote you out? No, you signed up because the law defined it, that you should apply for a contest, so don't say that something isn't who it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5971	Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5972	I'm giving up, since it went the other way, I'll do it when we get back to this topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5973	Okay, correcting the wrong quote, Mr. Dragan Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5974	Thank you. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues and all the distinguished guests here, I would ask you, the chairman, to somehow try to protect us here from being carried out, to say, here and some, some kind of abuse and harassment of various theories here. I can understand that someone may not know things, but that elemental ignorance comes out here and kills us here in such a way and in the sense, I just don't have to listen and endure these things here, and I think that you should react. Madam or Miss, I'm not sure now, Sanja Vulić here speaks of an illegal, illegal, anti-constitutional, anti-candidal election of members of the Central Election Commission... members of the Central Election Commission have been elected here in the ordinary parliamentary procedure. If there's anything against it, if there's something illegal, then you know who's trying to figure it out and who's supposed to decide. So no one here can represent any qualifications of such character and form, because he is not competent and is not invited to represent such qualifications and that here he represents certain things against constitutional and illegal. So I have no objection to any decision being reconsidered within the framework of a positive legal system, including the decision of this Parliament, and to decide on it by the authorities that are called and competent. And here's this kind of drill and public deception and listening to stupidity, give us protection from that, please. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5975	Thank you. We continue the discussion, Mr. Saša Magazinović has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5976	Here I am chairing, first of all I welcome you and the deputies and all the others, here two topics, uh, intervening, is this one around the Central Election Commission where I think that, let's say, if it's on the agenda right now, everything I think I'm wasting my time. The second thing is what fellow Arnaut and party clubs have proposed regarding a document called the Resolution on respect for victims of the Ustasha regime. I would just like to remind myself that what has been proposed is not the first time in Parliament and that this Parliament has already responded once by adopting its position to call on the competent authorities to remove the inappropriate names of the streets, which bear the names of fascist NDH officials, Mile Budak, Jure Francetić, Ante Vokić and Mladen Lorković. So this is Parliament's adopted position, this in the last term. I view this as a sequel and I am deeply bothered when the fight for anti-fascist values on which Europe is also resting, is seen through the prism that someone wants to deny religious freedom or that someone is involved in the work of religious communities. Actually, it's not like that. The most important thing for me here is that the parliament of another state, by recognition of the head of parliament, is the sponsor of certain activities here. I will accept it legally, not at the level of value, if you tell me that any institution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has given its consent. Are you, as the head of Parliament, asked by your colleagues is that okay? If you did, and if you gave your approval, then we'll talk about the subject as well. If so, I assume that, on the basis of reciprocity, you, as Parliament's leadership, can also seek and be a sponsor to maintain a mass for the victims of Ustasha terror in Bosnia and Herzegovina in Jasenovac in Zagreb and to be led by Cardinal Bozanić, on the basis of reciprocity, if Jandroković can be in Sarajevo, then I guess you can also go to Zagreb. As far as I'm concerned, I'm personally observing this initiative, regardless of the values that I have in my possession, more through the prism that someone from another country can do whatever they want. What's next? And in the end, I am deeply bothered that the esteemed cardinal is hiding behind the people, he is not a people, the people did not choose him, he represents a church, and he does it the way he chose. But he cannot, that a hundred times a religious priest, hides behind the people, for he did not even ask for what he intended to do. And this reminds me overwhelmingly of politicians who steal the Bog of the Father from this country, and when it comes to having to answer they are protected by the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people who are at risk, and they will save him. So, I'm going to support this getting into the agenda and I'm going to talk only about what interstate relations and the possibility that you, as our leadership, are promoting annitopic values.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5977	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5978	Bosnia and Herzegovina in Zagreb, as Jandroković here in Sarajevo wants to promote something else. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5979	I keep reminding myself of time. Mr. Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5980	Thank you, Your Honor. I am using the business opportunity to propose, on the basis of Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of this House, a new agenda item for this session with a proposal for a conclusion on the confirmation of the Interim Research Commission of the Parliamentary House of BiH to determine the situation in BiH's judicial institutions as a final attempt to end this entire agony, which has lasted almost a year, over the application of the conclusion that has brought this high House. Note, we, on 14th and 26th November 2019, reached a set of conclusions, including the conclusion that the Interim Research Commission of the House of Representatives will be set out to investigate the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions with special reference to the capacity of the VSTS to participate in the processes necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to membership in the European Union. It is Definisano that the Commission shall count at least five and no more than nine members, that each club wishing to participate in the work of the Commission may forward one member no later than seven days from the date of adoption of this Decision, that, after the expiry of that period, if the provisions of Article 30(2) of the Rules of Procedure in the sense of entity representation are not respected, the club which has already delivered members from the given entity may deliver the missing number of members from the same entity within an additional period of three days. The conclusion adopted, published, within seven days plus three missing days, all respected, in 2020, May month, I've already bored myself, chairing, every session I'm talking about. This is about the conclusion that we adopted, whether someone liked it or not, it's valid, it's binding, for a year we've been listening to the story of how it's going to be done on the next, in the next 10 days, for 15, a month, I'm not going into these obstructions, I'm not going into your position within the College, believe me, in this case I'm not interested. So we have confirmed this conclusion several times, and we have asked for Parliament's decision to be respected, so in 11/03/20, it means before the pandemic, at the last session, which was held in these more regular conditions, we have again reached the conclusion, by the majority of votes, where the House of Representatives is in charge, that within 10 days of the adoption of this conclusion, the Constitutional Session of the Interim Investigation Commission was convened by the House's conclusion at the 2nd emergency session, as I said on 14 and 26/06/2019, whose members were appointed on the basis and in accordance with that conclusion. Let's not get into it anymore,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5981	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5982	The position of the secretary and you, the Kolegijum, I have decided as an MP to propose a confirmation of this Interim Investigation Commission and that we finally end this and that what Parliament has made as its decision through a certain conclusion we begin to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5983	23 Representative Borenović, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5984	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5985	I thank Representative Borenović. The word has a chairman, Mr. Radmanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests, I would like to say a few sentences about the proposed Resolution, as it says, respecting the victims of the Ustasha genocide. I don't know why it was necessary for Mr. Arnaut to say that I was against it, but here I am confirming that by running an extended session of the College, I was against this being a part of the agenda. Right now, I'm an anti-fascist, and everybody knows that, I'm against marking Bleiburg anywhere, and everybody also knows that, and it's not the first time I've talked about it, but that doesn't mean I accept any motion for a resolution and I talked about it a little yesterday. I don't think this should be a part of the agenda today, and here's an explanation. When politicians deal with day-to-day politics and get into the past we have an incredible problem, the problems of unsuspected proportions we have, and this is dealing with the past in the function of the day-to-day policy, in the function of tomorrow and resolving these issues, and that is never good, no matter which side, but it was only a part of the reason why I am against this resolution being on the agenda. The very content of what was proposed in the Resolution does not correspond at all to the term that it is a resolution on respecting the victims of Ustasha crime and the Ustasha regime, even vice versa, which each one cannot say for himself that they are incorrect, the true truth is hidden, the true truth is hidden. Here they are all put in the same basket, I remind you ladies and gentlemen that historical science has said that hundreds of thousands of innocent people have been killed in Ustasha crimes, that it is undeniably proven to be a genocide of the Serbian, Serbian people, Jews and Rom, and everyone knows that, and it is nowhere standing here. We can't vote for it when it doesn't stand here, we can't vote when they're all treated in the same way, when it's not said, except in one indent, nothing about that criminal system of Ustasha camps here, but it's tried to generalize itself in the scheme of fighting fascist terror as a whole, and it wasn't just a criminal and fascist regime, but the one who committed genocide and wrote that there would be genocide, published in his "National paper" as in an official messenger that would execute genocide and execute it, and you can't put all the peoples in one indent when it's known who died, when we know who was in which, and on which side we've said it several times. Republika Srpska's parliament passed a resolution that clearly assessed all of this, and they are completely different from what is standing here. So I'm not talking in this part, in... the other four points of resolution. Although I am against the marking of Bleiburg, I don't think we should talk about what's going on inside the church of any, not within the mosque or any religious facility, and I think the responsible parliament has to act like this, and I don't think that this should be the point of the agenda again today. I'm sure, and I can explain it even more, that there's no one in this room who's of the order of the Serbian people of the carriage when he looks at this vote for this thing, it's not a matter of daily policy, it's a matter of fundamentally, the question of the past assessment, and here it's hidden. I think my views would be supported throughout Republika Srpska, nationalally, but also across Bosnia and Herzegovina, anti-fascists who are not concerned with the daily political story. That's why my proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is not to make this a part of the agenda. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5987	Thank you, Agent Radmanović. The word is represented by Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5988	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5989	Here, let Nikola finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5990	Chairman, I welcome you, colleagues and colleagues, guests, media. So, fellow believers, all three laws, this resolution has been proposed by the unbelievers today that we discuss it, or let them say that I am wrong. Why am I saying this? Because, gentlemen, yesterday at an extended college, I was caught up with the proposal of this document from a club, from a colleague, is that we couldn't even see it. Before that, he was honest with us with the pills and, uh, I was so hurt, so upset, that maybe even bad, I didn't say bad, I mistreated my colleagues, I could have talked to my colleagues, but it upset me so much, that today I'm trying to silence my emotions on what was proposed and speak so that you all understand me, so of course I'll try to really do it, but I have to tell you that I am a member of this Parliament and that we are members of this Parliament from the Club that I represent, and we are Catholics and Hrvat. So today you are trying to bring this Parliament into a debate on the state of religious communities. So today you're trying to tell religious communities how and what they're going to do. You have no right to do that, we have no right to do that, and I can't agree to that. This time we're on strike first, and I'm afraid, as it's started, tomorrow we'll get a resolution to get the cross out of the house, to get my menu on the house, to determine who my guest will be. Gentlemen, I call you not to accept this, I call you not to accept this because a series of lies and lies have been presented here by those who have given an opening explanation, nor in what is before you as the text that we have seen in the way you have seen. First of all, therefore, the title of the Resolution speaks of respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime, it is, of course, alluding that I should raise my hand to respect the victims of the Ustasha regime, and there were, we do not deny it, and then, in the measure of Resolution, we speak of the Holy Mass, not of the so-called, but of the Holy Mass. We write it with St. John's. Mass, big, not so-called. The second thing, therefore, is the measure, so it is only here in the title of fraud that colleagues from the Bosniak people, that colleagues from the Serb people attract, and here, and I should not say as a Hrvat that there was, as Radmanović spoke earlier, even though we should discuss it on a special point and I don't mind discussing the crimes of World War II and... but not in a way that we talk about Holy Mass. The Holy Mass was held in this Sarajevo '95. For years, he's stuck to all these years and all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. No one had anything to do with why the Holy Mass is holding on to this moment. The Holy Mass has an intention, Mr. Jandroković has neither the Magog nor ordered Cardinal Puljić, nor Cardinal Bozanić to hold the Masses, nor can he. He is the patron of the occasion around the mass, which is the memorial, the presentation of the book, and I don't know, the transport of the believers, but he cannot command the church to hold the mass or not to hold the mass and to whom he will hold it. The mission gentlemen is holding on to the intention. This is what people who don't know what mass is, don't know what a Catholic canon is or won't know, won't know. So, Mr. Magazinović said that Jandroković, 25 Jandroković can be a sponsor, he probably said, events in Blyburg that... The Parliament, and before, were about what Austria was saying, there's no rally, there's no, I don't know, inappropriate behavior, traits, etc. The Holy Mass in Austria was never banned, it was last year. This year he banned the coronary virus so it was not maintained, and it would probably have been held and Cardinal Puljić should have been up...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5991	Mr. Lovrinović, time. As a believer, we should also take care of the obligations of fellow believers for whom we have taken a break and made.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5992	Come on, don't be a cardinal now, Mr. Chairman, and you won't be holding my mass now.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5993	You can continue after the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5994	So let me go, I'm trying to be nice, you me...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5995	So can you continue after Nikola's break?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5996	I will završić, the cardinal, therefore, the cardinal does not choose Parliament or the Central Election Commission as we do Mr Magazinović. There's a special canon there, so it doesn't choose him... as you claim it here, so there's a way for the Cardinal to become, or bishop,... What the Cardinal says hides behind the people. The Cardinal is not hiding, the Cardinal is the bishop of this Catholic gathering, I speak on behalf of the Catholic community whose head he is. Gentlemen, gentlemen, so we'll have time to pollemize. I suggest you don't support this item of the agenda, it's a sacred mass to be held in the cathedral. So the Holy Mass has its own rule of conduct and, I said, it is used for intentions, it serves the rest of the souls of those among whom there were crimes. So, no other intention, no one to identify with, no one to defend, no one to cook in the stars. We can't let the state Parliament and our Catholics, Hrvat, bring in the story that we're talking, you're not invited gentlemen, the Mass will be held, and it will stick, bring whatever resolutions you want. What kind of Mr. Proposer will you order the Presidency to ban the Cardinal's mass from banning the Catholic...? Let me see you, bring those resolutions, bring them back to see that there will be a mass. While this Bosnia and Herzegovina is like this, we are Catholics... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5997	It's not recording.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5998	..his microphone's off.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u5999	26 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6000	Your microphone is... it sounds great but his microphone's off. It's just that Mr. Lovrinović will be given a word after the break immediately, so that you may proceed. Is that okay? Pause until 14 o'clock. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats, continue your work. Deputy Chairman, Mr. Zvizdić. Thank you. We interrupted Mr. Nik Lovrinović, two minutes to proceed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6002	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm going to try these two minutes to sum up what I was saying in the previous part of the discussion. Namely, dear colleagues and colleagues, I call you once again, it's... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6003	I'm sorry, can't you hear it? You can't hear it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me, is that the only way you don't hear it up there? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6005	And you're the one who should have heard it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6006	I'm asking the technique to try to do something. Mr. Lovrinović, a little break.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6007	I wish you'd heard it than those down from the SDA. _________(?) 27 [[no microphone turned on]] What? What are we going to do, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6009	They can't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6010	And when does the pay phone come out?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6011	No, no. And don't you hear it at all, or maybe there's an MP who's talking about it, and that's what microphones are new? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So do you hear me?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6013	Can he hear me now? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And that means you need to talk here, into a microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6015	Okay, yeah, well...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6016	It's not this attack to confuse me, but it won't. How about it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6017	Let's try, and we'll see, we have to fix something. Here you go, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6018	Okay, so here's how I said I should try to put this together in some final thought of what I was saying in the previous session. In fact, I appeal to you as I have mostly said, I'm sorry that some colleagues haven't heard it, that yet this resolution in this form is not being put on the agenda today, it's causing a lot of controversy. I can only tell you that she has a sense of how it's made to go on a change, so this 28-based contract with the svet stolica that you'll overlook that this country will determine when the Holy Mass will be held. Otherwise, this resolution doesn't make any sense. If you're going to talk about crimes, including Ustasha crimes, and NDH, so we can set up one new point, another point at another session, and we'll talk about it, no problem, but the fundamental reason why this is proposed, as I see it, is the story of tomorrow's sacred mass that we gentlemen can't influence or want. I will remind you, therefore, only that the Catholic Church has existed for over 2,000 years and I don't believe this resolution will change anything in that. The bishop, the local office, determines when the Holy Mass will be, for whom it will be spoken and what form it will be. On the other hand, therefore, the truth releases, you accept it or do not accept it, Communism is a totalitarian regime, it has committed crimes, it has committed crimes like all totalitarian regimes similar to it, and from this position, since the situation is the way it is, with this pandemic, we simply cannot attend tomorrow, everyone we wanted, to the Holy Mass, but will be one delegation of the Croatian National Assembly. We give absolute support, we ask it to be all right, therefore, that the bodies of the authorities take whatever it takes. The mission will be held in the cathedral, and if Bog is to be completed as planned without any tension, without any tension, for what it was intended for, and therefore I invite you not to accept this to go to the agenda, but perhaps to prepare yourself for another session, if there is any need to discuss crimes, including NDH, therefore, to talk, to make arguments, but without, therefore, mixing feelings and mixing messages because so much is set up here in this resolution, acceptable, and in fact it's just about, tomorrow's sacred mass that we here can't make any decisions or resolutions, or they make sense. I thank you for your understanding, and I hope you'll be reasonable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6019	Thank you. Do you hear better? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And can it go on like this now? Then we ask the MPs to take part in the debate sitting down. Obviously there's a question and a microphone. The word is Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6021	Thank you, Chairman. So, correcting the wrong quote. Mr. Radmanović, you mentioned your anti-fascist tradition, and you accused me of pushing a daily political story. Let's go one by one. Antifascism is proven by works, not by calling for tradition. And Mr. Mladen Bosić, your predecessor in that place, is an anti-fascist. And he refused to give Mrs. Krišto consent two years ago to travel to a memorial in Bleiburg on the cost of this Parliament. He called on his anti-fascist tradition and grandfathers who were killed by Ustasha, but also 29 made a concrete move. And as I was proud at the time, that the head of Parliament of this House had the courage to say no, to say about Blajburg no, to underline a concrete move. Antifascism is proven by works. As for me and your allegations of daily politics, I remind you that this term of office has adopted the first and only initiative from the state parliament, that the public area in some part of Bosnia and Herzegovina is named after the hero of the anti-fascist struggle. The park in downtown Sarajevo is now called Jelena Vitas Park. Mr. Radmanović, antifascism is proven in works by the votes in this House. Mr. Bosić also testified that Mrs. Krišto had vetoed many other trips after his ban on her travel to Blyburg. When I suggested that the House be made manifest, that the House discuss it, you then voted against Mr. Radmanović. Once again, antifascism is proven by works and everything you have said only one purpose has, the protection of the HDZ by the SNSD, the protection of this strategic partnership. And whatever you say won't change that fact. As for Mr. Lovrinović, this is not, as Mr. Jandroković called it, an event inside the church. You have a live transmission on HRT. Look at the announcement of Saturday's program on HRT, this live transmission has been announced. The Parliament...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6022	Time, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6023	Wait, Mr. Lovrinović is ten minutes. I'll be done in half a minute. Assembly of the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6024	All right, I hope you're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6025	is the sponsor of what Mr. Jandroković called an event. Nothing in Resolution is directed towards the religious community. The resolution even very carefully suggests to the respected representatives of the Catholic Church itself, suggests that they consider this initiative of the Croatian Parliament and the so-called Honorary Bleiburg Water. This resolution focuses primarily on bilateral issues between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. The president of the Croatian Parliament told us that he is organising, sponsoring, whatever the case, the Blyburg event in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, I guess it's time for the BiH Parliament to tell him how she feels about it. And finally, Mr. Lovrinović, this is not suggested by the unbelievers, as you said, the views of this Resolution are identical to what we have already heard from the US Embassy, Israel, the "Simon Vizental" Center, the World Jewish Congress. This is a purely civilizational issue, and we are all going to determine this issue today and about nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6026	I ask the messengers again to stick to time. We have a lot of agenda points, and if each of us talks any longer, then we're still making things more complicated. 30 Correction of the false quote, Mrs. Aida Baručija.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6027	I welcome everyone present. I'll just look back at Mr. Lovrinović's opening part of the exhibition, I'd react immediately as I said, but I really didn't hear it. Mr. Lovrinović, you have no right to tell someone in this House that he is an infidel. So you can justifiably comment on the Resolution and say why or why not, but to declare signatories as infidels is really not right. Whether or not we and how much we are believers are not the subject of this House but is our private matter and we will not discuss it here. I expect an apology from you for this, and I will also say why, for I, therefore, the moon is pampered, so I fast today and yesterday and all these days, and I feel truly faithful. What you've done is exactly what I'm going to say, an attack on me. I don't know if there's any need to say anything else, I think I've said enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6028	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6029	Thank you. First of all, Mrs. Baruči, so I said she was proposed by the unbelievers if they didn't convince me otherwise. If you're a believer, ma'am, then you know this declaration is about sacred mass, which is ours and only ours, Catholic. I have no right to speak to you friendlyly, but I have no right to speak to you about the specifics of what and how, and that this is about mass and curving into the rights of Catholics in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to deny Mr Arnaut, and also to you in some way, that is why you have not proved to me, says in the first point of the measure of this, called Resolution, in the first word he says – he calls the distinguished officials of the Catholic Church, but in the second sentence he says – and to refrain from organising the same, and in the second paragraph, the point says – asks the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH to call together and to demand the cancellation of the Mass from Bleiburg. Do you know what this means? I told you fine, so you should put the Basic Treaty on the agenda with the Vatican, change it and say there that the Holy Mass in Bosnia and Herzegovina will stick to it when the BiH Parliament, or the BiH Presidency, says, if you agree to it. And like this, set up a resolution and talk about not crouching and talking about anti-fascism and fascism, what does it matter, then? You are clearly told from the Cardinal and from me today, we are neither classified in... nor justified, nor justified by crimes, nor placed on anyone's side, we only pray for the slain and executed without a cemetery, without a court, without anything. We're not saying they're criminals and they're not criminals, if you're going to talk about it, we're going to put on a second agenda and talk about it, but let's not mix the holy mass we've been holding for years. Well, she stayed here in Sarajevo too, ma'am, back in '95, throwing flowers at Miljak. I don't understand. Do I speak Spanish? So we're talking about sacred mass and the measure of this is sacred mass, not Jandroković, you let Jandroković go. Jandroković, who is responsible, could neither ask Cardinal Puljić to hold the mass in Sarajevo.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6030	31 hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6031	It can only be determined by Cardinal Puljić and the bishop of the town. There is no Parliament that can say that, and the Pope, of course. And then you have to know that, if you're a believer, you know that, so here's the problem. I'm not messing with where fatiha will stick, I'll never, I won't get involved, I don't think of anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6032	Thank you. We continue with regular discussions. The word is Mr. Nermin Nikšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. I'm not going to plead on the proposals of others, uh, when we vote on the agenda, they're going to have every opportunity to say whether it's for or against. I would like to propose an addition to the agenda, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives' House of Representatives, we are all witnessing the latest affairs over the procurement of medical equipment, funds, tests, which took place in both entities, and that is something that is within the jurisdiction of the entity parliaments, but what may be and what is in the jurisdiction of the State Parliament and this House is that we are asking the Agency which is in charge and which is at the state level of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of BiH to provide us with accurate and precise information on how it is possible to, and how there has been a decision to give consent to the company of the srebren Malin for the purchase of the respirator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6034	Thank you. The word is Adil Osmanović, head of the SDA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6035	Thank you. Chairman. Honored co-chairmen, colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers. This Resolution bears the name Resolution on respect for victims of the Ustasha regime. Who can be against a resolution that expresses respect for victims, victims of all fascist regimes, including Ustasha? I appreciate that no one here in the O.R., and I haven't noticed in any discussion so far can be against it. However, that Resolution bears the name – Resolution on respect for victims of the Ustasha regime, without mentioning other fascist movements and regimes that have left behind huge, unfortunately, victims, I fear it would hurt those victims who have suffered from other fascist regimes. Therefore, if this point receives a sufficient number of parliamentary votes and is included in the agenda at today's session, the SDA will propose several amendments. 1. We believe that the Resolution on Respect should bear the title – Resolution on respect for victims of Ustasha, Chetnik and other fascist and totalitarian regimes. 32 2. The resolution must clearly condemn, not only the Chetnik and Ustasha regimes and movements, but also the emergence of unprecious and non- Augustan movements, as well as the condemnation of genocide in the period 1941- 1945, 1992-1995 as a clear condemnation of hate language. 3. With our approach to the amendment resolution, it should be comprehensive. Tomorrow is the 16th, and we have every 13th March in Visegrad marking and excelling Draže Mihajlović by the Rijeka Chetnik Movement. We're not gonna bring resolutions every time things like this happen. We appreciate that this resolution comes with a certain delay. Yesterday we had a chance to see her at an extended session of the College, and we see here that some points such as the 2nd and 3rd points, which are proposed, will not be time for their realization, because tomorrow is already 16. What we particularly want to highlight, which is the accent in this resolution, should be condemned by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, what I want to point out is that BiH citizens will never forget the historical role of the Catholic Church on support for holding a referendum for the independent and sovereign state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which took place on 29 and 1 March 1992. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6036	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Stevandić, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6037	Good afternoon. Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues. I'm glad to hear what my colleague Osmanović said, but also everything that was in the College yesterday and what we're talking about today, it's already a part of who in public has an echo of whatever our decision was, or let's say someone managed to get it out of hand, someone to do harm, and it's already a process that's on the air no matter what decision we made. And making a quick decision and knowingly intending to make it a big show is also, uh, questionable. I told the College yesterday that these first nine things in the introduction of Resolution, about respecting the victims of the Ustasha regime, starting with the fact that it is the NDH regime, universally known for the fascist character... victims of the fascist regime are determined... dignity and in a similar tone, defined for institutional action in accordance with the Constitution, law and international obligations of BiH. And then we have four things that we put on yesterday as problematic in terms of some measure. The first three things called on officials of the Catholic Church to review the initiative, to ask the Presidency to revise the contract with the svet stolica and to ask the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... the organisation of any events related... in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the participation of the patronage of the Croatian Parliament in this. That's three things that get in the way of a much more serious rate. The fourth,... condolences to the victims of the Ustasha regime is quite acceptable. These three things are the reason why I want to express my clear attitude. So it is clear to me that no one is smart enough to challenge the mass, no one is smart enough to challenge any parasite or practice of the Islamic religious community, and that it is impossible for Parliament to challenge it or try to discredit it in any way or in any way be a mediator in what 33 which the religious community can or cannot celebrate. That part of this text is really problematic. Eh, but to be honest, as someone whose grandfather was arrested by the Ustashas and then handed him over to the SS and who ended up at the Mauthausen and Dachau camps, someone whose family belonged to the Partisan movement, and I quote this because later I'm going to have to say something to Osmanović, I think that either this document should be completely processed, erased and kicked out all those things that make interstate, let me say, implications, and I can only give my opinion about this mass to say that the organization of a mass for the purpose of something is a valuable system and that it's a top ethical issue and that we have a completely diametric opinion about it, I am the descendant of those who have suffered persecution, exile, a massacre of Ustastean regime whose some members have ended in Bleiburg, and someone who thinks from their point of point of view that if someone had been killed in some way that they have no reason to have any judgment. Never in my life would it occur to me to challenge any nation...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6038	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6039	You let others go, so you'll let me go too, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6040	That's right, but you've been talking for over three minutes, four.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6041	This is a discussion of the agenda. I measured Mr. Lovrinović at 14. So we're all equal here. I want to say that it's really a matter of value system, ethically, and that I don't think I'm giving someone a lecture about it, because all of that ethical system we're carrying and representing ourselves, and I'm not going to tell anyone that it's worse. As for what Mr. Osmanović was saying, and I find it very important, that you are now in the context of the so-called Chetnic regime, I think you should condemn the crimes committed by the Chetnic formations, but you must be historically responsible, precise, that there was no Chetnic regime, nor was there a Chetn state. Draža Mihajlović was a classic guerrilla whose state lost the war and announced the capitulation. There's no regime. This, first of all, turned out to be a top political issue, not religiously, no, let's say, question...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6042	For over five minutes, you've already been talking, the longest time ever, you know...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6043	I'm measuring Mr. Radmanović, and everything you interrupt me, I'll continue. Also, this political issue can be brought into connection with the attempt to insert some clips between the Srbin and Hrvat' relations here, to act on elections in Croatia by systematicising the electoral body that corresponds to HDZ, and that is the consequence of all of this 34 that we are doing here today. That's objective. And finally, I want to tell you, if we really want to speak objectively, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska adopted on March 28th the Declaration of NDH Genocide on Srbin, Jevreje and Rom during World War II, where the data you can see in Old Town is written when you go to a memorial, before which all ambassadors are bowed equally to the American and Russian and the OSCE and the High Representatives. There are therefore 700,000 victims, 500,000 Srbin, 33,000 Jevrej, 40,000 roma, 20,000 children and 17,000 anti-fascists, so Bošnjak, Muslims, Hrvat and... These are historical facts that no one questioned. If we talk about historical facts, that those who were adopted where they existed, then we put them in this Resolution, and this resolution, gentlemen, congratulations fellows, brothers and sisters, friends, opponents, is missing. I want to tell you that I have made an effort to share this Declaration of the National Assembly with you and to tell you that when she was adopted, she was proposed by her colleague Čavić, who was then, to say, on the opposite side of where I am, that I voted for it, that everyone voted for it and that the Council of People, and Hrvat, and Bošnjak, had any objections...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6044	We got it, Mr. Stevandić. We got the Declaration.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6045	...that it was not of vital national interest and that no court proceedings were initiated. So I suggest that this is something that is acceptable and where both Hrvat and Bošnjak have pleaded not to insult anyone's feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6046	Thank you. The last warning to anyone who wants to act like Mr. Stevandić. So, even if I missed interrupting someone I won't, three minutes is a debate on the agenda, three minutes is a guilty quote, two minutes is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and we'll stick to it in the future. We continue the debate, the word has Zkan Helez, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6047	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office, the Honorable Chairman, representatives of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, here I am pleased that this is being broken on me, that three minutes are a restriction, and I will respect it, I appreciate you and this House, and I will also strive to discuss it in these time gauges. No doubt, not only in this House, but the Mass for the victims of Blajburg has caused the attention of the entire world public, and that is why I think this mass, including the Resolution itself, has come out of religious rituals. If it wanted to be held in peace, it would be like any other mass that most of us don't even know is being held and not heard, and that's for that purpose, it wouldn't be put into public discourse, into a public political space where it's normal for everyone to discuss it like this and to get involved. If I were right to say the fact that, beware of the absurd, the Assembly of the Neighbouring State of Croatia, or the Chairman of Parliament 35, is one of the sponsors of the Mass and supports this mass, so-called The Croatian National Assembly, an NGO, has the right to support this, whether it is not politics, and for God's sake only we, the BiH Parliament which is, in fact, the largest legislative body of our country and Bosnia and Herzegovina represents in the world with its views, conclusions, resolutions, we have no right. I ask Jandroković and the Croatian National Assembly in public – Why are they not sponsors of the Blajburg Victims Mass in Zagreb, why do they not do it in public? I also have the answer, because they must not because they are members of the European Union, because there are other arches and that is one two-faced policy of the official government of Croatia, I repeat the official authorities towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. Or I ask them – Why are they not sponsors of the same mass in Vienna, to be held, where there is also no way to maintain it? This has come into public space and someone has debated, I think this is a clean policy and I am sorry that Mr. Puljić has been abused by, uh, politicians in the region, as you know, elections are being held in Croatia, there are Octoberes in neighbouring Serbia and local elections are being held in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that some political entities are well shaken in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in the neighbourhood, this is an ideal opportunity to get through the church and through this event to homogenise national electorate bodies. And I responsibly argue this has nothing to do with religion, the Croatian Democratic Community almost disappeared in Livna, in the good part of Bosnia and Herzegovina is completely shaken and now it needs to regain influence and political power – how is it the easiest? Well, it's the easiest thing to do is abuse the church. Also, HDZ in Croatia, this mass in Sarajevo needs to homogenize its electoral body, and I wouldn't even be surprised if Vučić said in Serbia, here's something for us here, Blajburg etc. They killed Srbin in Jasenovac, etc. And to be used there for these political purposes. I will support this Resolution, nature and I would have had something to supplement in this Resolution, but I think it applies specifically to this event and I will support it as such, although it may not be extended to the extent spoken, this, colleague Adil Osmanović, and I think it is very important that this body, the BiH Parliament, sends a message to the world public that BiH through this body of the legislative heritage anti-fascist tradition and that we clearly state which side we are on. In Blyburg, this army was defeated, not only in Bleiburg, but in the whole world fascism was then defeated, he was not eradicated he still has it today, here as we see sometimes in some discussions of conduct, but he was then defeated and must put a final point on it. I haven't seen it there, I've read it, I've studied it, it's part of my profession, but I haven't seen any kid get hurt there like it's wanted to show that there were innocents, I think it is, but now it's put on like they're all innocents out there who got hurt, etc. and that it is right here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is multiethnic, to be installed here, it is not good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And just one more sentence, Mr. Chairman, you said genocide in Jasenovac, it seems to me I've been in Jasenovac several times and I'm sorry and bow down to the victims there, but I'd like to see all the genocides, especially in your country that have been made, that you're looking at the same thing as that genocide, because the victim is every victim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6048	Thank you, Mr. Helez. Branislav Borenović has a word, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6049	36 So it is really a bit sad or agonizing to listen to individuals from MP clubs who are looking for an excuse not to support this Resolution, which actually paints the best where we are today. I do not want to deal with colleagues from the HDZ Parliament Club they have certain political motives, of course, but it is really sad to listen to colleagues from other parliamentary clubs who are looking for ways to stop a resolution that wants to show respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime and give Parliament a concrete position on tomorrow's Bleiburg Mass. Let me repeat, as Branisav Borenović, as a man, as president of the party, as well as most of the citizens, a vast majority of this country, whether I come from Republika Srpska or whether it comes from another part of this country, we are against and are against the maintenance of this mass, we are against the involvement of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament in the organization of the Bleiburg Mass, and I think that the ultimate inadmissible behaviour of the Kolegijum and of the individuals who speak one thing these days, and you are completely different here in Parliament. And the best message and the best attitude will be for people to read this Declaration or this Resolution and listen to your discussions, except for colleagues from HDZ. All of you who have been so miserable, so miserablely looking for an excuse to stop this, for one reason only, that you don't mind your coalition partners from HDZ. Such a servial, condescending relationship, especially my colleagues, who come from political parties from the Republic of Srspa, I did not believe that there could be around so many clear things that, in my opinion, are sufficiently balanced, clean enough, honest enough, sufficiently obvious and necessary to make this House known in respect and sacrifice, the condemnation of the Ustasha regime, but also in expressing condolences to the descendants of the victims of the Ustasha regime. Very short, when you take who's looking for an excuse, and one part of the Republika Srpska team says - my preamble is fine, but I'm not responding to four items, and the other part of the representation, the ruling part, from Republika Srpska says - I'm not good with preamble, so it's totally opposite. You've executed yourself in your false, pointless excuses about so many sensitive, emotional, and human-important things. We will support the content of this Resolution, but as far as I can see, it is obviously your intention to call upon a friend in power to stop a resolution that, in this form, with this text is completely, completely acceptable and can be one clear anti-fascist stance of the Ustasha regime, involving other states in something that is unacceptable to all of us and some kind of sympathies to descendants, to all descendants of the victims of the Ustasha regime.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6050	Deputy president, Mrs. Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6051	Thank you. Here I will continue a part of the debate on the agenda, with the proposal, of course, of course, of the same matter in line with the Rules of Procedure. In fact, proposing to vote in the second round on the resolution of members of the Central Election Commission and the appointment of another, I would say that is actually the continuity of the illegality based on the Electoral Law, means it is opposed to it, which continues, meaning, since 11 March 2020, from the 7th session of the House of Representatives. I will also refer to a certain number, I do not know how much more of you are interested here, given the familiar views, but of course my duty, and I hope all of us are invited from the law, so I, as well as here are many colleagues who have submitted today, have also called for Article 2.15(4) of the electoral law in which it is stated – that if a member of the Election Commission stands out in the election period, his term of office is extended until the end of the election period, i.e. the implementation of election results. 37 Article 2.5(2) of the Electoral Act also states that candidates for the Central Election Commission are jointly proposed by members of the Selection and Appoint Committee, candidates for the Central Election Commission will be legal experts with experience in the conduct of elections or election experts and cannot act in the bodies of the party, associations or foundations that are organisationally and financially linked to the party, nor can they be involved in any party activity. From all this and the decisions proposed today, we don't really know what kind of experience the gentleman is proposing to appoint in the conduct of the elections, how much is the electoral expert, the only thing we know at this time and what we can check is that a man acts as an adviser in the BiH presidency, which can be checked on the official website of the Presidency. I would also like to remind myself that there is a Venice Commission Code, i.e. the Code of Good Governance in Election Issues, as well as guidelines and arguments in which it is mentioned among other things – only transparency, impartiality and independence from politically motivated manipulation will ensure the proper implementation of the electoral procedure from the pre-election period until the end of the process. I don't know if it should be reminded again, I can see that many, but here I will remember by respecting, uh, my respected colleague and last term, now a member of the Presidency who, as others have also said, often puts the status of interpreters in both the Constitution and the law, so he said that it is clear that the electoral process is not under way when it comes to appointments and that it is clearly written in the law and however the election law and interpretations are looked at, it is actually applied to election commissions, thinking locally, and also to the Central Election Commission. He also stressed -- that the mandate of people who formally expires in the election period and because of this legal obligation is practically going on until the election process is over. However, today I have not heard from any of you, perhaps it is none of your business, but I will remind this esteemed Parliament, we today have a new situation in the Central Election Commission, so Mr Stjepan Mikić has resigned because of his retirement and I remind all of you and all of us of the provision of Article 2.5 (8) of the Electoral Law, which says – in the event that a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH cannot carry out his duty for the reasons set out in Article 2.1 of this Act, including the meaning of this resignation, the Parliamentary House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in this case appoints a new member from the same constituent people, including the other members from which he was a previous member, a new member is appointed from the candidate list submitted by the Committee for Election and Apnomation. Therefore, dear and respected colleagues, I propose a Decision on the resolution of the members of the Central Election Commission and the appointment of the next Central Election Commission member from the list of candidates for the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission. The motion for a decision will be given, I think that at this point it is shared, and for you to have the conscience and respect for the provisions of both the Election Law and everything else, whether we respect it or we will make other decisions here when it comes to the functioning of democratic institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6052	Thank you. Three corrections to the wrong quote, I'd like to remind you of two minutes in the Rules of Procedure. 38 The word has a Mr. Damir Arnaut, a correction of the false quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6053	Thank you. You've spent 10 seconds on me. Today's election is simple, for or against fascism in Sarajevo and Bosnia and Herzegovina tomorrow. At first, I said there would be two kinds of amendments, some of which sincerely wanted to improve this Resolution and some whose goal was to make it fall. Adil Osmanović announced these others, it is clear to all of you that you are not interested in the ban on Chetniks, that this is your priority you would not have voted for Nikola poplašiti in the House of Peoples in the previous term. SDA's voice Sead Kadić was the eighth vote and ruled, Genjac and Safet Softić, who are sitting here, were then restrained. Well, the people of Nikola are Poplašen of the Chetnik Duke, and you're like a folk against the Chetniks. If the SDA were interested in the ban on Chetniks, Lejla Brčić of Our Party would not be the first in history to file a criminal charges against the Ravnogorski Movement. We have a historic opportunity here to save Sarajevo's reputation in front of America, Israel, in front of Evropa today because of what Jandroković announced to us tomorrow in the middle of Sarajevo. But the SDA and the SNSD will, we see, find every excuse, because you both need HDZ for various talows and for the IMF, and you're still trying to turn out to be patriots, all three of them, these as a fol dam cardinals, and these as attacks by Chetniks, and these third as a foll don't give. I don't have this complex to buy into games like that, and neither can you put a complex on me, my aunt, who today is 96 years old, was running away from the Chetniks and she's a believer and she's gone to the hajjg in her former regime on her expense, and it's not how someone paid her how she's become fashionable and hates Ustashas. And my grandmother Partisan, the first fighter, and for her, the war didn't end on May 9, '45. a few months later, because she's been Majevica down Chetnik gangs for a long time, and she's caught a lot of them, so you know, and now Adil finds me talking about Chetniks and thinks she's gonna waver at me with these cheap matches. The election here is very clear, the mass is tomorrow, the vote is today, everyone's intention will be clear, you won't fool anyone. And as I proudly speak of my grandmother today, who hunted the Chetniks and caught many of them, and my grandson will speak proudly of me and today's session, and the rest of you will see what you will do, and he will probably say to your grandchildren, and I have been shot.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6054	Thank you. Mr. Zlatan Begić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6055	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so very briefly. I would refer you all to Judgment No: S1 3U U1 2004 12 U2 of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which explicitly states that the provision concerning the amendments to the election committee members during the election period refers to the municipal electoral commissions, because it is also situated in that section of the Electoral Law and I can give you the judgment in this case where you will see, otherwise it is the case of Mr Vedran Hadžović who led the proceedings. If you don't have that verdict, I'm willing to deliver it to you, then you'll see that these are all out. The other thing is, we have one attempt at manipulation here, and look out for me today, we need to make a statement about a set of laws that we need to provide for certain means, including from our compensation for helping citizens in the event of a pandemic. What is the meaning of the resolution on our proposal, which was sent in March of the month, our proposal was submitted in March of the month, so our proposal was sent in March of the month, unlike this resignation that Mr. Mikić made yesterday, on the principle of "prior Tempora, Pocior Jura" should first be made known about our proposal. What's the difference? The difference is about 40,000 marks. If we resolve Mr. Mikić according to our proposal, he will not have the opportunity to receive a fee of six salaries. If he is resolved and his mandate cannot cease until he is resolved, he shall be entitled to a six-year fee on the basis of his resignation. It does not need to be specially reminded of the salaries of members of the Central Election Commission and that this would cost the citizens of this country about 40,000 marks. It is the five-year salary of a teacher, a high school professor of science, it is the eight-year salary of an officer, for example, in Banovići or Lukavac, and I ask you to take all these circumstances into account in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the Constitution of this country. And of course, I will call upon those who were the absolute masters of this process and who had suspended it, blocked it, blocking the work of the entire Parliament, so now it's all blown up in their faces, that the second time they respect the law, that the second time they respect business procedures, so they will not bring themselves into this position. I therefore consider the motion for a solution based on the resignation by shamelessly dragging my hand into the pockets of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Mikić should have submitted this resignation when his term of office expired, not now that he has come into the situation to remain unrepentant to agree that you may think, the day before this Parliament's session, to resign. Therefore, his resignation and that act of his may be entirely immaterial following a statement on our proposal. So please, that's another reason that's more in money than 40,000 marks, to vote all of you here together and to plead according to our proposal, which was sent to the regular procedure almost three months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6056	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Adil Osmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6057	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I can't understand this discussion of the last of Arnaut's colleagues. This resolution was signed by four MPs Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Damir Arnaut and Aida Baručija, the four signatures, of course, are not enough for this resolution to be adopted. I said that we only had a chance to see this resolution yesterday, you should have organised an extraordinary session of this Parliament long before, so suggest this resolution so that it could be possible, implement as you stated. Article 2 stands – is asked by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH to convene a mixed committee set up by Article 18. A basic contract between the Holy See and Bosnia and Herzegovina and requires the cancellation of the Mass. That's what the Bureau will call this mixed committee when tomorrow is 16. You expect us, MPs of the SDA, and you are aware that this resolution cannot be adopted without our votes, but you are not ready to give our suggestions, our views that this resolution is better, better quality and ultimately adopted. If you think it is enough to be supported only by counterpart Borenović, who had just discussed and said he would support the resolution on respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime, then you could also sign the Declaration on the Genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Srbin, Jevrej and Rom adopted by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. We want a resolution that will be comprehensive and condemn all fascist movements that have been here in Bosnia and Herzegovina and have left behind terrible sacrifices and others, to say the least. You therefore expect the resolution to bear the name – Resolution on 40 respect for victims of the Ustasha regime and to be supported by MPs from the Republika Srpska entity and you must not even mention the Chetnik movement and the Chetnic regime, it is not correct if we condemn the Ustasha regime here, and I have seen that we all condemn it here. I would also like to see fellow Borenović here in addition to the Ustasha regime condemn both the Chetnik regime and the Chetnik movement and what they have done, and on the other hand we want to observe the Resolution, not that today may be the resolution on respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime, and in 15 or a month we will launch a resolution on respect for victims of the Chetnik regime... there is no support and to pass. Therefore, on the third hand, we want it to be comprehensive and, of course, we are ready to support it and we are ready to participate in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6058	Correction of the wrong allegation, Nenad Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6059	Thank you very much. Well, for a little while, I suggested to my fellow Osmanović, uh, that when he mentioned... the regime that she was related to the state structure and I was someone who was a Partizan child... of course I condemn and the crimes committed and the Chetnic formations, just there was no Chetnic regime, there was no state in which the Chetniks chose the president, they had the Ministry of Interior, the army and so on, because it was a guerrilla movement that was caused by the disintegration of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and that army and the capitulation. So please think about the measure of things. On the other hand, with regard to treatment, or qualifications, it's not my fault that Mihajlović was decorated, I don't know, in Australia or these Amerikanac and the American president, so that's not my fault. Therefore, that is why historical auditism has been blocked in the field. Today there are associations whose I am not a member, because I have said from a family called the Ravnogor movement... that organizes some of those manifestations that you condemn. I have to say, these are associations that have a name, the name of their founder, they're registered in court, they pay the budget, and you and I get paid from them. So everything we're saying has to have some material cover and a metric. I am of course not, as I would say, loyal to any movement similar to one or the other, just telling you that we need to be precise and talk about the metrics, not giving political qualifications that have neither a legal nor a historical foothold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6060	Thank you. Regular discussion, Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6061	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's because we're talking about whether or not to include this motion for a resolution let me say my part of the opinion, mostly the Club's opinion, or Mr Radmanović's views. Honestly for me, this subject of the victims of the Ustasha regime is so painful, that it simply offends me that the speedy declaration or resolution, whatever you want to say 41, which is an attempt, and this is good at the end, I am glad that I waited this long for the word, it is nice that Mr. Arnaut finally got naked and said nicely in his last address what this essentially serves him, for a daily accounting, for saving the reputation of Sarajevo etc. Mr. Arnaut, save you the reputation of Sarajevo by the names of the streets, the names of the primary schools, which some of them bear the names of associates of the fear regime etc. Don't, please, keep in mind this Declaration, thank Mr. Stevandić for sharing with us, you have a few too painful numbers here, in this second pillar there are also specific numbers of children victims of the Ustasha regime and I don't allow your political petty tsars to come true through these and these concepts at all, that's another. When you mention Blajburg, since I said that I am, here you all know my last name, I will not say that I am from that family, my children are direct descendants of folk heroes, including Marija Bursać, and you will not hold us here and condition over this poor, partly auditist resolution who is on any side and who is for fascism, and who is my Bog against fascism, you are not a measure of it in any way. When it comes to Blajburg and those who are calling for us as sovereign state to protect, so I will remind you, especially colleagues from the SDP, and those who support the EPP and who are in the EPP that, I think, the Republic of Croatia is already, for at least 25 years, perhaps more over its official bodies, above all the Parliament, the sponsor of all the events that are related to them, for there, they say, the Crossroad, Blajburg, etc. And of the two prime ministers were the only Ivica Račan and Ivo Sanader who were directly in Bleiburg, for their reasons I don't have, I don't have any current knowledge, but also this, or you remembered yesterday, that the Parliament of Croatia is a sponsor or really ignorant, but here if I were to tell you that all these years the Parliament of Croatia is the sponsor of all the events concerning Blajburg, and you now need something for some reason, this one, let me say, to drag Jandroković or any other and, through victims of the Ustasha regime, putting them in the title alone, and nowhere else is not qualified or the victims, and especially not qualified or characterized by an anti-fascist struggle in the right way. And I disagree... to say this, not even with this, but... because you know here very well who is and what people were the bearer of anti-fascist struggles, to which years, and which people were not at all, I mean even when they were, when they joined and to what extent. For me, therefore, this personal qualification of the text itself is one attempt to subtly revise antifascism in these areas for the purpose of a general tendency that unfortunately takes place around the world, where we have a huge one, a huge one of the antifascist traditions and the actual facts about the Second World War, which we were, who was, unfortunately, witnesses and even around 9 May where the great powers tried to sort things out the way they weren't. I do not want to personally, nor will the SNSD participate in any single part of the revision of what has been happening in World War II, and especially, Mr Arnaut, we will not give you a cause for petty charter calculations over, bringing in the context of the victims of the Ustasha regime with some other things. Thank you very much and forgive me if I was too emotional, I said at the beginning whenever I remember these 42,000 children, I can't be without being emotional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6062	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Zukan Helez.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6063	42 Thank you, Chairman. Well, look, uh, the distinguished representative mentioned the SDP as Croatia has supported it before, I agree, but the first time is that the Croatian Parliament is a sponsor in Sarajevo, and right now. And that is why I believe and have debated the need for this House to adopt this resolution on this particular case. I agree, and that it is yours, and that your ancestors, let's say, here, I didn't want to speak, but it's already gone and the discussion in that direction, I've been named after a man, by my grandfather, by your grandfather, as you will, a man named Zukan whom the Ustashas had captured, taken away, and never known more about this man, nor knew his family, and his other brother was taken away by the Chetniks and found him slaughtered. And as for the anti-fascist tradition of your family in World War II, my family was also in World War II, but in this war, too, it was on the anti-fascist side, and Bog forbid some of us to question whether this tradition has been retained since '91. '95. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6064	Mr. Predrag Kožul, regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6065	My colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about putting on the agenda of this Resolution I must say that this document is deeply offensive to me. He insults my feelings, but also my common sense. When this preamble mentions the memory of millions of victims of the Fascist regime, it connects with the Holy Mass and on that behalf requires the cancellation of the Holy Mass. It deeply offends my Catholic and religious feelings, but when in the same preamble it says that dedicated to the principles of freedom of thought, conscience, and faith we seek the cancellation of the Holy Mass, I think it offends common sense. The only adjective that suits me is the world, and when I see an adjective in this Resolution, I see the so-called adjective, it speaks of the deep contempt of the proponents of this Resolution to Catholic religion, but I also think of other religions. Someone here was saying that we were doing this late, that we should have done this before. I will remind some in this House, and there will be newspapers for some when I say that my colleague Lovrinović and I, on two occasions in the last term, have proposed that in this Parliament, all the crimes of European totalitarianism in the 20th century, both Nazism and fascism, as well as communism, be condemned. There was no way there was any will for that debate. Here, I'll tell you why, reading only two points from Council of Europe Resolution 1481 of 2006. The Parliamentary Assembly strongly condemns a mass violation of human rights by totalitarian communist regimes, expressing condolences, understanding and recognition to victims of these crimes. It also calls on all communist or post-Communist parties to clearly distance themselves from the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes in their countries if they have not done so far, re-evaluating the history of communism and their own past. No, there was neither in this Parliament nor in this society the power to condemn the crimes of the communist regime without any ambiguity and that is why it was not on the agenda. These resolutions condemn all totalitarianisms, strong and Nazi and fascist and all their puppets, but also communist terror. And that's why I'm not going to invite you here like, here's my colleague so you don't put this Resolution on the agenda. I will be against it, but I look forward to discussing this Resolution where I will have opportunities to speak more extensively and in more detail why Blajburg, why the memorialism and what crimes are committed there. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6066	Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6067	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is no fellow Osmanović, so he just said something on the trail of what Mr. Kožul was saying. However, this resolution cannot be a cause, therefore, the basis for such a kind of debate and amendments. That is why we suggest that today this proposal is not discussed, that it is not put on the agenda, and that when a group, or this group or another, is ready to suggest on the trail of what a colleague in the SDA said or on the trail of what Mr. Kožul said, this, one whole debate about everything, we have nothing against. However, this, uh, motion for a resolution where, therefore, the measure of the Holy Mass is that we are now talking about everything and everything. So, yeah, here, anyway, we're just on the agenda, see what we've brought out. So it's simply an impossible mission. And colleagues to Zukan, so says Mr. Zukan, this wouldn't have happened by now, would it not have been if someone hadn't brought it out, who put it out in public? Neither did the cardinal bring it out in public, nor did we bring it out in public. So, as far as I know, the Croatian National Assembly was manifested two days ago when attacks on the cardinals were so much that they could no longer be silent. And again I'm telling you, there's no sponsorship of the church, missy. So you either don't hear or I don't know how to tell you. No Jandroković can, no one can sponsor any mass. What's the matter with you? There's no sponsor here. It's a bigger event. It's an event. I've been saying something about not repeating myself. Therefore, you cannot speak like that, and the Mass is held, therefore, spoken of by the dead souls and those who have disappeared, both to the innocent and to the guilty. Let's not repeat ourselves again. Therefore, I ask that, yes, we do not argue on this material. You can't, I said at the beginning, you and the Croatian MPs can't put in a situation where when you place the title like this that they won't condemn the crimes. Of course we're going to condemn the crimes, but you can't give me a speech on the mass in the metrics, and then ask me to support such materials or to support us. I urge you to understand, colleagues from the SDA in particular, so let the new material be made, to propose to one of the next sessions, let this not go today, it has caused enough attention. It can't end, as you said yourself, therefore, and also these other things that have been brought out by fellow Borenović, etc., if there is a debate that we will discuss, as he thought, so what he will support and I will suggest something so that I can see if he will support it from Republika Srpska, and we will see.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6068	Miss Sanja Vulić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6069	Thank you, Chairman. So I would ask my colleague Đonlagić to still copy this verdict he was talking about because, lucky for me, in 2012, Mr Milorad Živković, Dobojlija, was sitting in your seat, so I am very informed, I have, uh, all the information about what was going on, as well as from the records that are available to my colleagues. Mr. Vedran Hadžović lost in court because the House of Representatives then chose on the basis of the Commission's list of procedures and is not the same situation then because the House of Representatives is now and then, because the House of Representatives then delayed the selection of CEC members until conditions were obtained and the list was chosen and Vedran lost. 44 Vedran Hadžović and Tihomir Vujičić complained because the new members of the CEC were elected in the package from the list in isolation and so on. So I'm asking my colleague, Đonlagić, that he's certainly multiplying that verdict for us, so let's see who's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6070	Thank you. Mr. Dženan Đonlagić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6071	Well, I wasn't even talking. Imported colleague Sanja, I'm Dženan Đonlagić, I'm a person A, Dženan Đonlagić. Person B, Zlatan Begić, introduce person B.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6072	Thank you. This is Mr. Begić, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6073	Of course, I will deliver that decision to you, as well as the decision of 2018. A quote from that decision – it is impossible to apply the provision in question of Article 215 to the members of the CEC of BiH, as the mandate cannot be extended until the election period is over. This is because the provision of Article 25.9 of the electoral law requires the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to carry out the procedure for the appointment of the CEC of BiH. If members of the CEC do not do so, they will continue their duty until the appointment of new CEC members of BiH. Therefore, the Council concludes that the full legal non-sensus would be if the provision of Article 25.9 of the Electoral Law, which has been indicated to refer to the selection of the members of the CEC of BiH, would be interpreted in the spirit of the provision of Article 215, etc., I deliver to you all, no problem. You'll get it tomorrow during the day. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6074	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Finally, after a few hours, I close the debate. Mr. Begić got the third time past the Rules of Procedure and it was my fault, correcting the wrong assumption, but we'll fix it in the future. We declare proposals for new agenda points. We declare ourselves in the order in which the ministry wrote down how it was proposed. 1. Mr Đonlagić's proposal, which he formulated as a decision on the election and entry into office, however, must read as - The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement of the Proposal for a decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the role of a member of the Central Election Commission. So we're voting on this proposal. We're going to vote to be a part of the agenda, I think I've said it quite precisely. Please repeat. 39 present – 25 votes for, 12 against, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. There'll be a agenda point. 45 2. Proposal – Proposal for a resolution on respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime, Proposers: MPs Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Aida Baručija and Damir Arnaut. Start the vote. Total attendance 39 – for 26, versus 7, abstentioned 6. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. The proposal shall be entered in the agenda. 3. Proposal – Proposal for a decision to put aside the decision on the election and entry into office and termination of the post of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, proposed by Ms Sanja Vulić. A total of 39 present – voting for 13, against 25, one abstention. There's no general majority, the proposal hasn't passed. 4. Proposal – Confirming the appointment of members of the Interim Investigation Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to determine the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions, Proposer: MP Branislav Borenović for 26, against 12.1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Suggestion passed. 5. Proposal – Proposal for the conclusion of MP Nermin Nikšić, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH for precise information on how the granting of consent to the company "Srebrena Malin" to obtain the respirator Glasmo. 34 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Suggestion passed. The sixth proposal, is there any objections? Has everyone voted? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Six. Proposal – Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH on the appointment of the next member of the Central Election Commission on the appointment of the next member of the Central Election Commission from the list of candidates for the appointment of a CEC member, deputy deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, Mrs Borjana Krišto. We vote. Repeat the vote. For 12, versus 22, abstentions 5. There's no general majority. The proposal didn't go through. We've finished voting on the completion of the agenda. A 15-minute break to get the consolidated agenda on which we plead. 46 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6080	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although this point bears the title – Comments on the answers received and I am now hearing that I have received an answer, which I did not see, and I wanted to comment on, so I asked a representative question as part of which is one initiative, it was set up on 13 January 2020 and it was appointed to the Minister of Security, Mr. Fahrudin Radončić, Minister. The question was – What is the status of the future border crossing Svilaj on Corridor 5C given the fact that the output of this Corridor at Bijaca has BIP status? So the issue was very short and simple, and along the way it was an initiative that in the already existing and existing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia on the status of border crossings, I would ask that the annex be carried out and that the future border crossing has BIP status. So here are four months and more I haven't received an answer, and in the meantime a bridge was built on the Sava River near Svilaj and finally began to build a border crossing. This question of mine made sense at that time, because depending on which categories this border crossing and the border crossing project itself will be done so. So I would beg, I probably didn't get the answer that I deserve, so I'm putting it back up again, and I'm gonna deliver this one later on. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6081	Thank you. Commentary, Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6082	Thank you, Chairman. You have just said that we will only work until 5:30 and I would ask that this motion for a resolution on respect for victims of the Ustasha regime instead of point 59 to discuss it immediately and to vote immediately, because this announced event under the auspices of the Croatian Parliament is tomorrow. I remind you again, as chairman, you have these powers to change the order only, and you have the opportunity to have your signature on this resolution as chairman or to enter history as someone who has put this on the 59th point and thus made it impossible for us to plead before that event tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6083	You got the word for commenting on the question, not on this. We've established the agenda, read the exact order of the agenda, I think it would be inappropriate to go back to the beginning. We continue the work, Nenad Nešić comment on the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6084	Thank you, Chairman. On February 26th, I asked a parliamentary question to the President of the Assembly of the Herzegova-Neretva Canton, the President of the West Herzegovina Canton Assembly and the President of the Posavina Canton Assembly in which I asked them to change the Constitution so that Srbin and in those parts of BiH would eventually become a constituent people and have the right to their own language and letter in those parts of BiH 24 years after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement? So far, I've only received an answer from the Posava Canton from which they claim to do so by the end of the second quarter of this year, which means within another month, until the rest of us have even accepted the answer. Well, when Srbin are crossed as constituent people, they have no fundamental human right to their own language, and you can imagine how they have just come to work in these cantons and what conditions they have for life when they haven't even stayed. Therefore, we should not be surprised that only 0.1% of Srbin live on the last census in the Western Herzegovina Canton, in the HNK Canton of the 14% of the former 1991s, 2.9% of Srbin and in Posavsko of the former 11.1% now live 1.9 Srbin. And if you allow me the chairman, and the second question I asked, which concerns the comments for the BiH concessions Commission. From 2005 to the end of 2019, the concession commission of BiH spent 15,510,400,00 KM number of employees ranging from 10 to 14, today as far as I know 12. Do you know how many Bosnia and Herzegovina granted concessions during that time and how many requests were submitted to them? The answer is zero. So, seven people, members of the Commission, secretaries, drivers, cars, offices, taxpayers cost more than 16 million KM to do – what? Nothing. That's why I think this institution needs to be shut down right now, 55 shut down, and the money's being rerouted where it's more necessary, and there's nowhere to go. It's an ominous interpretation that someone is destroying this country, etc. Well, in past councils, the Democratic Front has just insisted on this subject, but also on some other pointless agencies. Why not admit that something is not well done, that it is unnecessary, that there is a better and more efficient way to do a certain job, the aim of this initiative and is that the Council of Ministers finds a better, more meaningful and rational solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6085	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6086	I'll comment... within this, these agenda points are the fact that I haven't been getting any answers for five or six months now. The question I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the school's training and working status of the current minister(?) Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Czech Republic, I haven't won in five or six months. Dear Ministers are not here, according to the established practice of the said ministry, but I will also warn us all of the Law on Parliamentary Oversight, Article 64. A law on parliamentary oversight which also defines criminal provisions for non-response to parliamentary issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6087	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6088	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Something similar to what Mr. Kožul said, so I have three earlier, I think, questions raised to the prosecution, one to the mayor of Bihac, when it comes to refugees, this migrant crisis, and I have not, therefore, received answers to this day. And it's also been a few months since, and I've even sent the ERs over to the College, and there's no answer to that either, so I'm going to see what I'm going to do next, whether I'm going to ask this to initiate this procedure that Mr. Kožul is talking about. There is also an initiative that went towards the Council of Ministers, I heard that it was at the Council of Ministers' meeting, it is about the transport of employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina's body of administration, I heard that there was something at the Council of Ministers' meeting, that it was sent to the ministry to see some solution in the Regulation that regulates these issues, so here I expect. But I got the answer, as you said two, I saw one, though, I don't know the other one that I got, so I'm sorry maybe it's one of the ones I listed, and that answer I got was from the chairman of the Community Council of Ana, Mrs. Ana, just to see, Ana Baltić. So, before I asked the same question to Commissioner Kolji who, and this is about the property of the Franciscan province of Bosnia and Herzegovina, here in Kovačići, which is 56 parts, was actually returned to their use and repair, but it's stuck with Lamela C, and it now says that people can't continue to work, is true Bog and this is returned on a temporary basis because there is no law on restitution. However, as far as I know the laws and regulations, which has been done with part of this property, the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in '96. the year has made a decision on giving this complex to use the Provincial and the return process in the possession of this property, it is '98. In 2000, however, the municipality of Novo Sarajevo in 2003, which wonders, uh, coincidences when Mr. Komšić came to the presidency, he was both here and the chief, so they put it on the property of the municipality and now they don't give it anymore. In response, the chief was that he could not without the law on restitution, I asked him to make a decision on the trail of these earlier decisions by the government of BiH and these earlier decisions of the municipality, to make a decision to apply these assets until a restitution law was passed. The same question I asked Mrs. Chairman of the Municipal Council, she just told me that I had received an answer from the Commissioner, because the Municipal Council is actually making that decision. And, let's just say, on the trail of this debate that we had today at that resolution, I'm just going to tell you that this property was taken from the Franciscan province by Decision of the Happy Court II and IV... The city of Sarajevo 10.03.'47. the years and under the Law on Certificates and Amendments and Completion of the Law on the confiscation of War Profits, acquired during the enemy occupation. So let me remind you that this property of the vasda belonged to the Franciscans before the formation of the NDH and in World War II, and that at the end of World War II, these liberators found themselves and said that it was acquired in the wrong way, and then it continued to do so in the Novo Sarajevo Municipality, so it is property. I can say there's no law on the restitution and return of that property, but I can't understand that they don't return the decision here, and they don't allow the continuation of the work on Lamela C when they've already allowed two lamelas, but here's what I'm going to do with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6089	Thank you. No more comments on the answers received. I'm closing point two. Point three, Ad. 3. Confirmation of the appointment of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of Ministers of BiH, number: 01/7-34-1-93420 of 12.05.2020. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zoran Tegeltija, on 08.05.2020, delivered the decision to repeal the Decision on the appointment of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of Ministers, that is the decision you received. I would also like to remind you that the procedure for certifying and appointing members of the Council of Ministers is regulated by Article 152. Rules of Procedure. Article V of the position (4) of the BiH Constitution provides for a way to appoint the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. On 12 May 2020, the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Zoran Tegelti, delivered the Decision appointing the Minister for Human Rights and Refugees to the Council of Ministers, signed by the Declaration of Candidates, whose form and content was prescribed by the Central Election Commission, which contained the information contained in Article 10d. Article (1) point (a) of indent 1) to (6) of the Council of Ministers Act. Official confirmation of the Central Election Commission pursuant to Article 10c. The Council of Ministers Act which confirms that the proposed candidate for minister fulfils all the necessary conditions of designation by means of a final report on the truthfulness of the information drawn up by the State Investigation and Protection Agency in connection with the appointment procedure. The Council of Ministers' election committee has held a session, discussed all 57 information available regarding the appointment of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees to the Council of Ministers, and recommended to the House of Representatives to confirm Mr Miloš Lučić's appointment as Minister of Human Rights and Refugees in the Council of Ministers of BiH. As usual in accordance with Article 152. I call upon the Rules of Procedure of the Chairman, Mr Zoran Tegeltija, the chairman of the Council of Ministers to read the Decision on appointment. Excuse me, Mr. Tegeltija, I'm sorry, but Damir Arnaut's priority has a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but stay here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6092	Thank you. Dear Chairmans and members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me, the esteemed guests, to do so on the basis of Articles 10 and 5. I propose the Council of Ministers' Law to confirm the decision to appoint a minister to the Council of Ministers of BiH. As Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Miloš Lučić is named. I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives consider and confirm this Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6093	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6094	Thank you, Chairman. So I'm really asking you to respect the Rules of Procedure, because at least on this point, it's very clear. So, the chairman can interrupt the session for up to an hour, the Rules of Procedure predicts that if a session is scheduled for a period of more than an hour, you put it to the vote. Since I have already pointed out, i.e. asked that this proposal for a resolution on victims, respect for the victims of the Ustasha regime be put to the start of the agenda so that it could be adopted by tomorrow, I really believe that any postponement, i.e. the move of the session, will continue Tuesday's session for the purpose that MPs will not be able to declare before tomorrow's event, which is held under the auspices of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, you are required to put, if the interruption will take longer than an hour to make it mandatory to put it to the vote and then let everyone be made clear whether it will take longer than an hour and if we will have a chance before tomorrow to declare this resolution, it will simply be a litmus test for all of us here, but the Rules of Procedure is very clear, you are obliged to put each interruption longer than an hour to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6095	Thank you. 58 We continue with point three, or we hear the decision, I open the debate. Here you go. Who's answering for a word? Niko one's answering. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6097	I signed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6098	Oh, yeah, yeah, sorry, sorry. Zukan Helez has a word, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6099	Dear Chairman, here are just a few sentences, I think we should, most of us discuss this appointment, because the first thing that has long been the crumb of the Council of Ministers and by the Constitution is illegal, is it not in accordance with the Constitution until they are all appointed, so that all decisions are questionable, but the decision has not been made because the Council of Ministers has not worked, so this Mr. Lučić, did not miss anything. What I could read from the media, because I didn't get official biography, the man presents himself as a banker, and then states there that he worked in a high school bank so he couldn't study regularly, did he? As far as I know, a banker is a man who owns a bank or who's a bank manager or someone, is a banking corporation, and with high school, we all know here in this room that a man can work in a bank on a counter. So I think it's a very inconclusive proposal from the motion that a man from a bank counter come to the Council of Ministers, because that's how we deregulate both the Council of Ministers and this country. I also read in my biography that one of the items is very important in this society in the Balkans, that the godfather is someone, whether, to the president or to one of those in the leadership of the party. I also wish we had this gentleman's property records here today, because reading some property records from some members of the Council of Ministers, so suddenly when they're appointed or four or eight years in the Council of Ministers, here in the entity governments as suddenly to get shares of Telekom or I don't know any of the world's companies, like Mercedes or this Siemens. I read the other day from Mrs. Biser Turković, so she says five apartments, five houses, three apartments, two in Croatia, one in Australia, other properties from children, etc. So then you make a cluster at the ministry, I don't know the brother-in-law of the Hroat Ambassador, the daughter of the OSCE, the son of the Embassy in Qatar, so it'd be good this way at the beginning, or if someone told us about what these people have and what they own, so we don't get into a situation after four years that both this gentleman or here are two-and-a-half, uh, by the end of the term, or actually in this country, you never know how long the mandate will last, so that we know what he had at the beginning, and what at the end of the term. Certainly because of this biography and 12 or 9, I don't know, completely irrelevant, years of study and a man coming to the Council of Ministers, it's very important to me, I don't think he deserves and won't get my support and I won't vote for the gentleman in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6100	Thank you. Mr Branislav Borenović. I'm sorry, Mr. Arnaut's violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Arnaut. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6101	Thank you, Chairman. Article 76(1) of the Rules of Procedure therefore speaks very clearly of the violation of the Rules of Procedure – the MP is obliged to specify the provision which was injured after which the Chairman of the House will decide on the justification of the complaint concerning the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, you can't skip like that, I made it very clear that, therefore, to the provision of article 80 that speaks of a session and article 83 that talks about breaks, both of these members clearly prescribe that the interruption, or the break cannot last more than an hour if the House is not previously declared. So, you as chairman of the Rules of Procedure can interrupt the session or give a break, but for the longest hour. If you're going to interrupt or take a break by Tuesday, then the Rules of Procedure order you to put it to a vote, so that the House can declare it. Given that you have moved the resolution to the end of the agenda, that this event is happening tomorrow, I cannot help but believe that all of this is essentially done to delay the statement on this issue, but in any case, Article 76 at the very least requires you to decide on the justification of the objection and make a decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6102	We heard you, Mr. Arnaut, and for the first time, and I didn't hesitate to answer at all, so this is the attitude of the College and the Expansive College of yesterday's session, and I said in my decision why in the motion for a decision why we are doing this, and you all know it in this room, not because of what Mr. Arnaut is talking about, but because of the need of a number of MPs who need to respect others who don't have that kind of need. Therefore, the decision is to __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Is anyone talking? Mr. Arnaut, you didn't get the word. So, I said, in fact, this is where I announced the decision of the Expansive College that when he negotiated the session, he decided this, and I'm staying with it. We are continuing to discuss the agenda point – Appointment of Ministers. The word is Mr Branislav Borenović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6104	Thank you, esteemed chairman of this House. As someone who participated yesterday in the Commission's work to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers, as someone who referred several questions to the candidate for a very important and responsible position of minister in the Council of Ministers of BiH, I noticed several illogicalities and asked for an answer regarding certain candidate qualifications. The fact that, yes, it was true that the period of high school was five years, studying 12 years at a private university institution in Banja Luka, and I must say that an important candidate confirmed it and said it very correctly – yes, I repeated the fourth grade of high school, yes, I studied for 12 years, because I had the need to, as he said, pursue a banking career, and then, in one period, as he said correctly, I did, quote, a number of exams. The fact that there are no qualifications regarding the area to be dealt with, but I do need to say that I really have nothing personal against Mr. Lučić, against him as a man who is proposed and I can't have because it is still about a person who has his own opinions, has his 60 views, has his own opinion, but I need to say that I am against these phenomena and I am saying it as someone who will definitely vote against this solution, it is my right as an MP, because I am against such phenomena that I think they degrade, deplace the importance and responsibility of the position that people need to exercise in this society. Gentlemen, this is about selecting a member of the ministerial council, one of the three from Republika Srpska where 900 thousand live, let's say maybe a million residents and the fact that I am against this appointment says that I also believe that those persons who are proposed from Republika Srpska, and others who have come or come from the Federation of BiH, do not have to and cannot be perfect, but they also cannot, nor should be below certain averages, with very, very thin qualifications. With no intention of saying anything more difficult, aware that it would obviously be the greatest miracle in this country that any of us would suggest a wolf for a particular position, but I don't think it's a good young person who completed college three years ago, after 12 years, to target and put in a very, very complex and sensitive position. I think most of you from the ruling coalition agree with this assessment, you probably don't have the courage and you don't want to say it, I'm talking about all these valuable principles here, value principles, not wanting anyone, don't Bog, insult me, but saying what I mean and repeating again from one very correct conversation yesterday I am aware that I have to say this and I want to say it. Mr. Tegeltija, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, that is, of course, your choice, and that is your message to the citizens of this country, that after the arrogant behaviour of the minister and deputy minister during the ban on gathering, partying around Sarajevo restaurants, yelling at neighbors, nothing can surprise us anymore, and believe me, and it doesn't surprise me that much, even thinking of yesterday, I think this appointment may well fit into that environment where you're politically acting. Yes, Mr. Radmanović, I know you may be thinking alike, but I think it will fit perfectly in with that ambience that you've made, in which everything is possible, and even one young person put on that pedestal of great responsibilities where you're all going to make fun of, and I'm really very serious when I'm saying this, and maybe I want just the kind of people that I want best. These are the newly acquired natural circumstances in which you act, which by your conduct, you have made your relationship, I do not belong, I have the right to be against and to vote against and to vote against and to make a political distance with you who will make that decision today and I repeat once again, nothing personal to the person, I didn't even mention the name, because I respect as a man, but I do so against appearance, and I want to say that. I want to say that you've completely simplified this society, you've devalued all of the normal values, you've created an ambience where everything is possible, and this and I'm not surprised, and that's why I felt the need to say it, not having any intention of discussing myself with anyone, but just thinking out of my heart yesterday, yesterday I haven't spoken to you here until today, about what happened at a committee meeting, where we had a conversation about a candidate for one of the most important positions in this country that not everyone can be delegated to, but also that political parties and political potassium take responsibility when it comes to the proposed person. I repeat once again, I had the need to say this, I will vote and I think that we from the MP's club will also vote against this appointment, your responsibility, your decision, you have enough hands, you have a political coalition, you have an agreement, you choose, you send the message you send, I think the message leaving this place is cruel, really cruel to people who are probably both tired and dreary and disappointed, and maybe even used to something that sometimes doesn't even surprise them the way you do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6105	Thank you. Miss Sanja Vulić. I'm shortening the hearing for five minutes. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6106	...injure the Rules of Procedure before me.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6107	Okay. Excuse me, Nikola Lovrinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to warn everyone, and even those who are following us, I don't have any other icons here for that kind of thing. So it is already information at Klix.ba that they have criticised the choice of this minister, Mr. Šarović and Mr. Borenović, who has just finished. I'm asking my colleagues from Klix.ba to wait for the bar to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6109	Thank you. Sanja, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6110	I'm absolutely not from, correcting the wrong quote, can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6111	You got the word...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6112	Thank you. He throws his friend away, and he confuses me. Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'm not surprised at the criticism when it comes to the new candidate for minister. Apparently today whatever came from the cabinet of the chairman's council of ministers, the individuals had criticism about it. I don't know, maybe if we had suggested to Mr. Radmanović that Mr. Borenović sit in your seat, and that Zvizdić sit in Zukan Helez, then it would probably be the right political environment for work and action. What is important for our citizens to know throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina is that there is no competition, no general, no special conditions for selecting a minister. He is a politically appointed person and carries political responsibility and democracy is such. The minister has assistants who are unfortunately permanent, mostly, and under the State Service Act, too, the same thing with secretaries who help ministers. That is why there is a Law on State Service, as any adult can be chosen, so he can be an MP minister and these are the basic postulates of modern democracy for those who did not know, let them ask around, and they will see that. In any case, my view is that, of course, there were many people who were criticised, and they were already appointed by both the people and those who were, and those who were proposed by SDA and SNSD, etc. The most important thing for me is, if this is already a political decision, and it is, give the guy a chance to prove himself and show himself, because I believe he has a great team of associates, assistants, secretaries, and he will justify trust, and individuals are impossible to please because they need a chair to satisfy their vanity.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6113	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Branislav Borenović, correction of the wrong allegations. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6114	So I don't know if Mr. Lovrinović is giving statements to the media in front of Parliament, I never gave up that when the media is looking for certain statements to make, to comment. I made a few statements today, I don't see if it's too controversial. If that's the problem, say, and forbid, make a decision here to ban MPs from making statements. I don't know, I'm a little bit sorry, but I find your comment inappropriate, a little strange. Well, you've been making statements, too. You've been giving statements all day.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6115	Thank you. Mr. Zukan Helez, Mr. Lovrinović's injury to the Rules of Procedure. No, wrong quote correction, sorry. Mr. Helez, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6116	Yeah. A colleague of mine, what's that? Is it a Sanja? Is that Sanja? In fact, I know that it is one lady who has a rare privilege to shake hands with her Bogo. We all others who believe don't have that privilege. My Koleginica, uh, isn't the Council of Ministers to prove himself. In order for someone to come to the highest authority of the state, the executive body after the presidency must be proved somewhere else. This future minister of ours, he's proven himself for a long time in college, he's not allowed Bog to prove himself in the Council of Ministers for as long as we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6117	Miss Sanja Vulić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6118	Chairman. Well, you know how Mr. Helez, the only happiness is that people will never get a chance here in the Federation to see you as their leader, ruler, and, behold, I will repeat what you said, Bog, I am absolutely behind what I said. When the arena echoed – we have our Bog, his name is Bodiroga, he absolutely did not criticise it. That you can't find a leader who will lead your party and that people go after him, respect him, love him, experience him the way they have the right, that's your problem. I know that you would be happiest to sit there, to chair, to make your contribution and to prove yourself. But what you're going to do is, some younger people have gone into politics before, so here, they're going to have a chance to prove themselves through the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6119	We're going back to the agenda. Mr. Helez, correcting the wrong quote again. This is the second time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6120	63 Well, here, the chairman I will no longer, is below my level, but this, perhaps many people in this country would like to have as you do Bog and that he has, that Bog has his nephew who has a private firm, so that he has two-and-a-half million without a tender or buys, etc., etc. If such a person can be a Bog to you, then the problem is with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6121	Miss Sanja Vulić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6122	Well, I didn't know you were working in the investigative organs, but anyway, if you're accusing anyone, then you're bound to prove it. But here, there will be opportunities at the next session, perhaps even Tuesday to talk about your party's staff and their property records, import and export. And let it be your honor and face as a family man to mention children, nephews, cousins, whatever, it speaks more of you than of anyone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6123	I would like to remind you that the debate is about confirming the appointment of the minister. The word is Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Debate limited to five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6124	I am, of course, deeply aware of the fact that parties that receive a certain number of mandates, therefore, are able to name their personnel for a particular battle of office in any body. Of course, they have the right to do so, they have the right to propose whom they consider to be the best answer to that function. However, I wonder if the party that proposed this candidate had any personnel who had better references than the guy that was proposed. I, like my colleague Borenović, therefore, just want to say that I absolutely, of course, have nothing against him personally, but we are here discussing appointments to function and, therefore, we know and we do not need anyone here to tell us that there are no conditions and that this is a political function, we know it perfectly well. However, I believe that here, this is the kind of appointment that hurts all those young brilliant people who have a high average in college, who have experience in the work of NGOs, so the civil sector, who, therefore, are sitting at home maybe, regardless of all these references. I am a person who will surely support young people and give them a chance if I am able to, but I believe that this candidate in no way meets the conditions in the sense that he can respond to the function to which he is to be appointed. So we have gold students sitting at home, having no permanent employment and having any activity behind them, any social engagement, etc., so they didn't come into a position to be proposed for one of these functions. So, for young people, I am, but I think there are young people who have certainly had a lot better references than those that this guy has, here's what we've learned from the media and, therefore, the fact is he doesn't have a rich biography and I think that's defeat. I think it's defeated that we're sending a message that no matter what we have fantastic, smart, successful young people, that for a particular position, therefore, all we need is a party resemblance and absolutely no ability. And there's no one here at all willing to treat any of their complexes or how something is discussed here, first of all, I don't have that need for me to have a doctorate in the field of human rights, and I know that it's a complex problem and what knowledge and experience it takes to respond to this function. So once again, of course, 64 I repeat that I will not vote for this candidate because I believe absolutely nothing deserves to be appointed to this post.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6125	Thank you. The word has Mr Mirko Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6126	Thank you, Chairman. Well, most of the debaters have already said a lot, I will not talk about the candidates' references, but this would be more a question and a request for a reply from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, the esteemed Mr Tegeltija, who is formally proposing to confirm these two positions, i.e. Minister and Deputy Ministers. When it comes to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I suppose we all know that it is one of the most responsible functions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a very complex ministry that requires a lot of knowledge and some of the other abilities that one candidate should have for the minister. And therefore, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, I would like that, since you were very brief, that in some way you were simply apprehensive and that you didn't say anything about the candidate, except that you spoke to the candidates, except that you said their names, that it might be okay for all of us here, that, since we didn't even get the candidate's biographies, to say what it was that made you say, what made you stand behind these two candidacys? Is that your belief that based on their biography, their knowledge, their references, they can respond to this task? Do you believe that, or their talent or anything? You must, therefore, make it clear to us that you are convinced that these two candidates will respond to their task in the Council of Ministers at the position of Ministers and Deputy Ministers. We are aware, of course, that there is a parliamentary majority who will probably vote these appointments with a sufficient number of votes. Our position on this matter is clear, but also for our sake and for the sake of the public, I would ask you to be clear exactly by, I would say, these questions I was talking about. Here, so many chairmanships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6127	Thank you. Mr. Nermin Nikšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I am in line with those MPs who have repeatedly called for the parliamentary majority because of the fact that the Council of Ministers has not been appointed in accordance with the Constitution. And the first urge, when I heard there was going to be a appointment, was—here is finally. And to be absolutely clear, formal and legal, the appointment is in accordance with the law, there is no need for anyone to be troubled. I am pleased that, here, that our colleague has given us little education as democracy and the fact is that it is the right of the parliamentary majority to appoint the Council of Ministers as well as who he considers to be qualified and that he can do so, such as the standard, and that the opposition warns the parliamentary majority of what he does, how he does and what decisions he makes. Obviously, this appointment and these personnel solutions speak more about the attitude of the parliamentary majority in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am really glad that we can expect to address this migrant crisis in principle to reduce imports and increase the exports of migrants from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we're going to reduce their arrival, and we're going to increase their departure, and I think that, and I think this is the solution to another slap by Bosnia and Herzegovina and its institutions, and here, when they're appointed, we're going to see who pulls everything up and slaps the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6129	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6130	Thank you, Chairman. So you see, uh, when you look at the Minister's biography, we see that man, in this traditional sense, has no college. And let's put it aside, but what happened to this coalition deal, because I am now reading Mr. Osmanović's statement as head of the club when there were these problems about Mr. Mlađan Božović's appointment and he said at the time – we expected the SNSD coalition partners to respect what we agreed, which is that for the Human Rights Minister a person who is a professor, who is politically unengaged from the ranks of the others, will be offered. Now that we've come here, with, uh, the professor is, I guess college to someone who doesn't even have a college, what happened? In the meantime, has any other inter-party agreement been reached between the SDA and SNSD, what kind of trade is it and what really, uh, led to the standards, at least, is it, when the SDA is concerned so much, to fall? When it comes to Mr. Adil Osmanović's statement, I see he's reported to correct the wrong allegations, but I remind myself that I'm reading media reports that directly quote him. And here's another direct quote - we'd like it to be some professor who worked and had a lot of published articles on human rights. I don't see that a man published any articles, and especially not on human rights, is it, at least if this biography is complete, and it seems complete and appears from that biography that man has only recently started to work. I think this tall House, and above all, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, deserve to hear how those standards fell in the meantime, is that, from the professor, as I said, we fall for a man who doesn't even, uh, college is finished. As for the second question to me, it's unclear why the SDA gave Mr. Dodik this fourth ministry, I think you've already given them, you've given Mr. Dodik four delegates in the House of Peoples, and we all know that three is not four, and we're all fully aware of the execution of that decision, but why did you give him the fourth ministry? Because you see, this is the first time since we have the chairman and nine ministers, so ten positions, so parties based in Sarajevo don't hold those four positions. When Nikola Špirić was chairman of the Sarajevo-based party, they had four positions, of course it was respected that provision of the Constitution that a third should be taken from Republika Srpska's territory and it was respected in a way that Tarik Sadović was the one from RS, I don't know, I can't remember who replaced him afterwards, but in any case it was respected all along. When Vjekoslav Bevanda was chairman of the Sarajevo-based Council of Ministers, they had four positions in the Council of Ministers and the exact same situation was he, and when Mr. Zvizdić was chairman of the Council of Ministers, which he can also confirm, here he is. This means the first time since we have the chairman and nine ministers, so ten positions, that the four, 66, that the parties with Sarajevo headquarters do not have those four positions. So, here it is very, very clear, I think you take this – you gave Dodik to four in the Council of Ministers, followed by three in all that we had before, you gave Dodik four delegates in the House of Peoples and essentially prevented this parliamentary assembly's mandate to pass reform laws, to bring savings, etc. Here, we saw today what you did about this resolution about Blajburg, it's now... more between you three parties overall, and, here we go again now, so what about that professor, where's Professor Mr. Osmanović? You promised the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina a professor, and we got a student look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6131	Thank you. Mr. Osmanović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6132	Thank you, Chairman. Well, there's no other way to answer that, but to correct the wrong quote. On the contrary, my colleague Arnaut correctly quoted my statements when we spoke about candidate Božović as human rights minister and refugee. And we expected one of the candidates to come to the issue of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, to come to someone in the line of professors, someone who has published papers. One occasion, the SNSD leader said they would send a team to Sarajevo. Apparently, fellow Arnaut, there's no better choice and there's no team. We've been waiting for the professor to show up, but here, we can't wait. We are not happy that he is not a proposed man who is a professor in the field of human rights, who has published papers, but obviously we cannot get such a proposal, and we want this Council of Ministers to finally be established and that's what we have here on the table today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6133	Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6134	Wait, I mean, now you're totally devaluing your own statement, you're now saying that you'd like it to be a professor. That's when you said, uh, that for the SDA, again I quote you, two things are controversial when it comes to the appointment of Božović, and these are issues consistent with the implementation of the SNSD and SDA coalition agreement and these Bozovic stains, is it? And this coalition agreement, as I quoted you earlier, implies that a professor from the field of human rights, a professor with many published articles in the field of human rights, comes. So, the coalition agreement either changed, so you and the professor, you crossed the professor, you enrolled a student, or the SDA gave up that part of the coalition agreement and agreed to a student, I mean the man is still a student, look, it's very clear. Now, I'm interested in what shop you've been here to devalue not only your own opinions, I mean me, it's me, but let's each go away, it's amazing for me to have someone say something like that in public, and then step away from it, but here's all sorts of people. But also, this one, the coalition agreement of SDA and SNSD was devalued, because at that time you said that the coalition agreement between SDA and SNSD meant three things, that the man was also a professor at that point, did you, this one also put this one that had many published articles in the field of human rights, secondly, that he was not a politically exposed person, and thirdly, that from 67 rows of others. From all that I see here, from the human biography, it's only respected that he's from the order of the others. Now I'm really saying, I'm interested, but I think the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are interested, too, why did we burn us with a professor to a student? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6135	Comrade Arnaut, you know that the procedure has passed here when it comes to checking this candidate and cannot be a student appointed minister. I hope that our parliamentary commission has done its job well when it comes to qualifications and when it comes to professional preparation. It wasn't a coalition agreement for the Human Rights Minister to be in the line of professors, in order to have published papers, that was my position. I said – I wish coalition partners had offered us someone from the line of professors who has published professional works in the field of human rights, but I said, obviously, people are struggling, people are suffering, they don't have such a frame. They don't have that kind of character and we still can't wait, we want to complete the Council of Ministers. It is the representation that comes from Republika Srpska's entities, as Dodik said several times. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6136	Thank you. Mr. Arnaut, re-correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6137	Now the man and Dodik have started quoting, and Sanja Vulić will start, uh, following. You see, Mr. Osmanović, it wasn't your personal position, you said this – we expected the SNSD coalition partners to honor what we agreed, which is that for the Minister of Human Rights a person who is a professor, who is politically unengaged from the order of the others, and now here and the fourth, this is a full quote, – and that would not be burdened with all of this as it is with Božović. So, that's very clear, but you see you're the head of the club, the journalists asked you for a position, as head of the club, to state the SDA's position, it's not a personal position. You have made it very clear here – that the coalition partners of the SNSD will respect what we agreed, which is that for the Minister of Human Rights, a person who is a professor will be proposed. Apparently your coalition partners from the SNSD did not respect it, and two other things like this, don't, listen to the team, I mean you agreed to this narrative, it's really devastating, Serbian, Bosniak, Croatian, it's terrible to listen to it in this House. The other thing is, you're wrong at all. Under the law and the BiH Constitution, a student can be appointed a minister, and there is absolutely no professional preparation required. So I'm not even talking about a man fulfilling his qualifications, it's a little bit devastating to me that you agreed to be named a student as a minister, and you were expecting a professor. So, look, I don't speak here at all, absolutely not disputed by his cooking in what I'm saying. It is disputed here that you said very clearly that you had a coalition agreement with the SNSD that it would be a professor, and now we are burned on a man who is not only a professor, but is still a student. I have no doubt that some store happened there. The question is whether the time will happen, but as it certainly happened around that fourth delegate in the House of Peoples, and we'll see if, yes, time will show which trade it was. Thank you. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6138	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We vote on confirming the appointment of the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers, Mr Miloš Lučić. Run the voting procedure. Total attendance 38 – for 22, versus 15, abstention 1. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that Mr....
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6139	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6140	He has, he has a general entity. You're not listening to the secretary. I find that Mr Miloš Lučić has been elected Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. Congratulations. I'm closing point three. Point four, Ad. 4. Confirming the appointment of Deputy Minister of Security at the Council of Ministers of BiH, number: 01/7-34-1-864/20 of 29/04.2020. I remind myself of the procedure I also reminded of at the previous agenda point, when we got everything, that the official confirmation by the Central Election Commission of BiH concluded that all the necessary conditions were met, that the State Agency for Investigation and Protection confirmed the truth of the information. I'm giving my word to Mr. Zoran Tegeltija, for the Deputy Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6142	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests. Allow me to propose to confirm the Decision appointing the Deputy Minister in the Council of Ministers of BiH. Before I make my decision, I want to say something about the content of this decision, because it was said by MP Šarović. I've been able to pick ministers several times, and I've been able to be elected minister. Each time, the prime minister read biographies of the proposed candidates at Parliament's session. True, the Republika Srpska Parliament does not have a commission, i.e. a committee to prepare for the election and appointment that prepares what Parliament has, the Parliamentary House of BiH. Therefore, I, following and respecting the rules of this Parliament, have prepared the same decision on the basis of which you too, Mr Šarović, were elected Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers in the previous meeting, identical. As you remember, last time we chose the Council of Ministers, I only read the names and last names and ministers and deputy ministers, and complete biographies with patterns of about twenty or thirty pages were given to Parliament for each of the candidates. 69 This is also the situation with Mr. Lučić, whom you have just confirmed, and this is the situation with the new deputy minister. So, the Council of Ministers and I, as chairman, followed the practice that has been in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives so far. But here, I propose to confirm decisions on the appointment of the deputy minister in the Council of Ministers of BiH, and this is called Nedeljko Jović as Deputy Minister of Security. I propose to the House of Representatives that this point, i.e. this proposal, be considered and confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6143	Thank you. Mr. Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6144	Thank you, Chairman. Rule 87(2) of the Rules of Procedure – At each session, the House will first discuss all issues on the agenda and after the debate on all points, a vote on materials will be held according to the order of the adopted points in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So this is an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure very clearly stipulates that a debate on all points is being held first, and that only then is all the material being voted upon. And you've agreed here, there's no doubt here, this is very clear, there's no exception at all, and you're here, so you refused the proposal to make a statement about Blajburg, to plead out on Resolution, to respect the victims of the Ustasha regime, but by breaking the Rules of Procedure you saw as soon as possible to get through the appointments of ministers and deputies. So, Mr. Radmanović, you, from the session to the session, are constantly hiding the Rules of Procedure, you are violating provisions that have no doubt at all, and you are also showing your priorities, you are showing that it is much more important for you to push through these ministers and deputies than for the House to declare a resolution that protects the memory of the victims of Ustasha terror. Unlike Mr Mladen Bosić, whom I mentioned before this break, who said no, that this Parliament is financing anyone's trip to Blyburg, this is really embarrassing, Mr Radmanović. Article 87(2) is very clear and there is no doubt about it and there are no exceptions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6145	We have to say that sometimes Mr. Arnaut didn't read all of the Rules of Procedure. Item 152. The Rules of Procedure say – after the chairman, point 4, the Council of Ministers reads at the House of Peoples session, Dom, reads the decision on the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers, the debate is under way. After the debate, votes shall be held on the confirmation of the appointment. So there's no justification for this criticism. The word is Mr. Zukan Helez. You have no word, Mr. Arnaut, you have made a mistake and you are misquoting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Zukan Helez, a regular discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6146	I thank the chairman. Well, recently in the media, I read that a member of the SDP in Banja Luka had moved into one of the socialist parties, so some media is close to some parties here who like to call themselves patriotic, Bosniak, etc., and then they said, they wrote there that this SDP member who was in the SDP for ten days and went to Slobodan Milošević's party. Now, here's 70 I just want to see, because the proposed candidate comes from a socialist party whose headquarters is in Belgrade and whose president has long been a Slobodan Milošević, a war criminal, and we all know what this man of evil has done in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to know now how the patriotic, proboscis parties will vote, whether to raise hands for the party's member Slobodan Milošević. First of all, I mean the SDA, the Democratic Front and the SBB, that's that Bosniak team, and I want to see if they support that man. I will not vote personally because I propose it, I don't know the biography, as I didn't get it, you didn't deliver it, and I won't vote because I know that his boss who suggested it, Petar Đokić, the first degree, is wrong with him, so there are further pieces of work that he would say in our people more than Ivo Andrić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6147	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6148	Mr. Radmanović, means what is really not allowed, to read part of the provision, and stop before the point. So, Article 152, the full member says what you read – after the debate vote is about confirming the appointment in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you left this out when you spoke, you left out this part – in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It shall be voted in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which I have quoted in Article 87(2), that the House will first discuss all issues which are on the agenda, and after the debate on all points, a vote on materials will be held in accordance with the order of the adopted points in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So there's no doubt here, but it's really not right to stop before the point when you read the Rules of Procedure, especially when you claim someone's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6149	Correction of the wrong allegation, Zlatan Begić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6150	Well, here's to the allegations of my esteemed dear friend Zukan Helez, that the DF is part of the Bosniak team. The president of the DF is a Hrvat, Catholic, extremely devoted to Catholic traditional values and, of course, to his home country of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, neither can I play in any Bosniak team since I am not Bošnjak. I believe that it was a lapus lingu and it wasn't intentional, but that it wouldn't remain undetected just to correct my friend Zukan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6151	Thank you. Mr. Branislav Borenović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6152	Well, some things don't really remain unclear, I don't think it's a good thing that at least you didn't deliver a stenogram from yesterday's Commission session to elect members of the Council of Ministers, to prepare the Council of Ministers' election, because then some things would be much clearer. I 71 want to be correct to everyone, and according to this candidate for the deputy minister whose biography was really neatly delivered yesterday, the man of high school in four years, in five years' time, delivered his degree just as he should have. I'm not getting into any personal qualifications, some personal evaluations because there were a lot of different connotations and stories yesterday that didn't stand. So I want to say it as a member of this Commission, and it would be good if we had, if nothing else a stenogram or a detailed report from yesterday's Commission where you could get a lot more information about both candidates and I'm saying it for a reason, not to protect one or another candidate, but to be objective in what we as members of the Commission had the right to see. Not wanting to get into some internal impulses or some attitudes that have a political dimension, I needed to say it, and I will personally insist that this stenogram be published to see which of the candidates said to the asked questions and to get all the materials related to them myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6153	Mr. Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6154	Oh, here I want to, I don't want any controversy because I highly appreciate my colleague Begić as a man and as a scientific worker. So, I never said that, but it came, here today, from the mouth of the captains of this majority here, and the team because he said this came from the Republika Srpska team. I think you've all heard. Also, Željko Komšić I know that the Hrvat, the Catholic, is all I know, but also at those negotiations I heard a statement from Željko Komšić that he said – in the name of all will be negotiated by Bakir Izetbegović, it is like, whether, the captain of the team. So that's how it happened, nowhere, some even conditioned it, you know it well, to get the president of the DF, Željko Komšić, to those negotiations, so the negotiations were attended. Well, here, after all, and around the IMF when there was, uh, no Željko Komšić, the team represented three captains, at least that's how I see it, because it wasn't the fourth one, except for those IMF representatives and embassy representatives, and, well, if it wasn't so, maybe Mr. Osmanović, the captain of this team here, call it whatever you want, most or don't know how, so, and I know that Željko is the one, the heritage of Catholic values, and I appreciate it all, that part of the war, and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6155	Correction of the wrong allegation, Nenad Stevandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6156	I'd like to say what I've reported to Mr. Helez for correcting the wrong quote. I ask you to shorten this pointless debate, the shift in topics, the target, and that, since it's clear to everyone what we're going to do and how we're going to decide to make it, as we call it, normal. No matter who agrees, who disagrees, that's perfectly clear. And to you, Mr. Helez, let me just say, even though I've had a conflict with the person concerned and have not tolerated his wife, Slobodan Milošević is not a war criminal, man has never been convicted. Don't target and tell lies here. The man has no conviction that he's a war criminal, died in a trial. Likewise, there are other members of other nations who have died, not condemned. So when you say something, then you need to know if there's... No matter what I think of this man, 72 means I don't have an excessively positive opinion or I'm good with him, but you need to know that when you say such difficult qualifications, it has to be covered by something. And I'm going back to the first thing, please, so we don't turn into this nonsense, let's just finish this as Bog commands.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6157	Zlatan Begić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6158	I agree with my colleague, but here, I'll tell you when I got back. So the arrangement with the IMF is not a matter of any representation, it's a matter of extra-institutional action. And you know, when it comes to representations, representatives and those representing themselves as leaders or captains of some teams, we in Tuzla have a boy we call a swan, he presents himself as Halid Bešlić, and otherwise he's not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6159	Dženan Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6160	Of all the above, that Agent Helez found on his two occasions, only true is that the chairman of the SDP City Committee, Banja Luka, Aleksandar Došenović, joined the Socialist Party of Serbia, so the media transmitted it. He said the man was in the SDP for ten days, so I quote information from the media, that the man was the chairman of the SDP City Committee, Banja Luka, and that is the only thing that is true on two occasions.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6161	Mr. Zukan Helez, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6162	Here, while this is fresh immediately for Mr. Đonlagić to replicate, I will look right at you when you vote to see if you will support the man Slobodan Milošević and then I will commit to it. And as for Stevandić, so Mr. Stevandić, you celebrated Milošević and eventually you arrested him all in Belgrade, extradited him, and many of his exhibits were convicted as convicted war criminals, and he would have welcomed it if he hadn't been hit by death.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6163	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We plead to confirm the appointment of Deputy Minister of Security at the Council of Ministers, Mr. Nedeljko Jović. Run the voting procedure. 73 38-22 for, 13 versus, 3 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that Mr Nedeljko Jović has been elected as Deputy Minister of Security in the Council of Ministers of BiH. I invite Mr. Miloš Lučić and Mr. Nedeljko Jović to approach the solemn oath. Please repeat after me. [[/OFFERENCE OF THE OBLIGATION OF THE COURT OF COURT.]] _Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6165	_Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6166	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6167	that I will knowingly carry out my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6168	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6169	respect the BiH Constitution and fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6170	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6171	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6172	Thank you, gentlemen. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-05-15-0.u6174	I'm closing point 4. 74 I konstatuj that, in line with the decision of the extended College today, we stop working and continue on the 19th at 11 o'clock, that's Tuesday. Thank you. Session interrupted at 17 and 50 o'clock.
