ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7891	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening the 10th emergency session of the House of Representatives starting with an anthem. Ladies and gentlemen, the release from today's session was justified by MP Ljubica Miljanović, Mira Pekić, Nada Mladina, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, Nikola Lovrinović, Jakov Galić and Safet Softić. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] The delays were announced by Mr Mirko Šarović and Branislav Borenović. The Council of Ministers of the Bureau of the Chairmans informed us that Mr. Tegeltija would not be present, but there is a vice-president, Mr. Bevanda. I find that there are 30 MPs, which means that the session, not only has a quorum, but we can also work. As you know, the 10th Emergency Session of the House has been convened in accordance with Article 68. Rules of Procedure. I agree that at the 10th emergency session we will be working on the following agenda: Agenda 1. The Joint Commission's report to both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the achievement of the identical text of the Budget Law of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020 We are going straight to work on this agenda point. Ad. 1. Report by the Joint Commission on achieving the identical text of the Budget Law of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020 The proposal for a law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a different text in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is why the Joint Commission was established to bring the text of the Law into line. The Joint Commission delivered the report. Text 6 (six) of the amendment has been usaglasiti. You got the report, the truth with a little delay because it didn't get there in time, I hope you read it and you have an attitude about it. The Commission has designated rapporteur at the House of Mr Predrag Kožul. I'm opening a debate on the Joint Commission's report. Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7893	I thank the Honorable Chairman. After I received a report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the budget for 2020 indirectly before the start of this session, I am thinking of what to say in this, for me, a pointless situation. Here, I went through this report and I see that the Commission, which is called the Joint Committee on Consensus of the Bill, has accepted the amendments of the House of Peoples, and has not accepted the amendment of the House of Representatives. Isn't that an absurd situation? And what's worse about all that when I looked at the content of these amendments is only then I'm disappointed. And why am I disappointed? I am disappointed that this Joint Commission has agreed the Budget proposal to harm two situations in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are priority, two crises that are current in Bosnia and Herzegovina. First, it's a crisis created by a pandemic and an epidemic of the coronary virus. For the crisis, we envisioned more than 42 million KM, and this Joint Commission is reducing that total by 754 thousand KM, and this amount is planned to resolve economic damage in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this Commission agrees that it is necessary to reduce the item, an item that addresses economic damage in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to increase the item in the Parliamentary Assembly for the supply of equipment. So imagine the absurdity, so this is only possible in this absurd state, that this is how the proposal for a budget for 2020 is brought into line. For the matter to be worse in Bosnia and Herzegovina to last more than three years of the migrant crisis. This esteemed House, this House of Representatives adopted an amendment with a symbolic amount of 450 thousand KM, and I thank my colleagues and colleagues who supported this amendment, that in this budget, which is 1.8 billion, it is a modest amount of 450 thousand KM for the migrant crisis. And what did this Joint Coordination Commission do? That amount was reduced, deleted from the Budget, so there's nothing for the migrant crisis. And that's what this Commission did. What was in line here? Nothing. This is where what we did in this House of Representatives was analized. And we did it to send a common message that there is understanding and a migration crisis with a chromium amount, which is so modest that I no longer intend to repeat it. I, I must say, am still happy when I listened to my colleague Adil Osmanović's presentation at last session, who said it was necessary to appoint a security minister to finally manage and control the migrant crisis. Well, colleague Adile, how you will manage and control the migrant crisis when you have zero marks in Budget. Well, you yourself said it was important to appoint a security minister to manage the migrant crisis, to help those areas affected by the mykrant crisis. And I supported that, and I kept my mouth shut at that time, and here I finally worked, and Adil will remain with those funds in Budget. There was some hope. But unfortunately, nothing worked, you cut down on the economic damage, to resuscitate the economic damage caused by the pandemic of the Coronation Virus, you reduced the item for the migrant crisis. And that is the result of this Commission's work. I think that this Commission should have the name of a committee to confirm the decisions of the House of Nations, and that's okay, you confirm the decisions of the House of Peoples, the composition of the committee as it is. So, I'm not naive, as soon as I saw the Commission's position it was clear that you wouldn't defend the views of this House, because this House adopted the amendment and the Budget proposal for 2020, so you could agree on something. But no, you didn't agree to anything, you just accepted what was adopted by the House of Peoples. And we are in such an absurd state. No matter what we adopt here, how we discuss, what we do, the House of Nations will do what he intends to do, or what the leaders who sit in the House of Peoples will do, that home of leaders will do what they think is the best. And where are the interests of the citizens? Citizens' interests are not in the new employment left in Budget, not the citizens' interests in buying new cars, for which you returned that 754 000 KM item. Interests are citizens to improve the overall economic situation. Every day we hear that the number of newly infected due to the epidemic and the pandemic of the coronary virus has increased, and you're reducing the rate for economic damage recovery. So what kind of message is that? What kind of politics is that? For me, it's incomprehensible. And that is why I believe that, while I am aware of the overall situation and the way it all works together, we do not need to stop with the activities of the representatives who, behold, we are trying to change something in the interests of the citizens, but I am announcing a further struggle and new initiatives towards the Council of Ministers, to identify and the migrant situations, to allocate the necessary funds. I'm not saying it by heart, I don't think I'm up to that story here or anything, that I'm getting some unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily political points because of pulsism. This isn't populism, gentlemen. This is a real need. We have thousands of migrants on the streets every day in the UN-San canton, a situation very difficult, it seems criminal. We asked you to understand that, to support that emergency intervention is working, so let's continue to plan and decide how to deal with the migrant crisis. But unfortunately, there's no understanding. Once again, the colleagues and colleagues who supported my amendment and who recognized the migrant crisis thank you for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7894	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dženan Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7895	I thank the chairman. Good afternoon, everyone present at today's session. One sentence can sum up the budget process for this current 2020. Citizens will receive elections, HDZ officials new cars. And then there's the question of what's next and how long it'll take for new political blackmails and new political blockades. It will spend, through the economic code – the capital expenditure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, very likely to buy new cars and renovate certain premises or offices or anything else. So it is now quite clear, after this tape of the whole budget procedure that has been going on for a long time, that the intensity of the amendment was actually to complicate the budgetary procedure to... elections, above all in Mostar, and then in other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, you brought your new political blackmails and new political blockades to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, either to support this Budget and to be elections, because the election year is, therefore, according to the Constitution and the laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina because of the constitutional duration of the mandate of elected mayors and mayors and councilors, municipal councilors and city councilors, so elections will be held and should be held, but you brought us before the question actually to support the budget and enable the democratic process in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to hold elections in order for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consume their constitutional right, i.e. one of the fundamental human rights or not to support the budget and to disable the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That was the essence of the actual submission of amendments to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7896	Thank you. Mr. Saša Magazinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7897	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7898	He gave up. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7899	Thank you, Chairman. I speak on behalf of the Club Our Party – Independent Block. We have been determined to support the budget all along because the elections are too much of a commitment to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if the budget is adopted, the local elections will be held this year and the citizens will be able to say, among other things, what they think about this. What they think about this, the fact that now 754 thousand marks, rather than the resolution of the economic damage caused by the coronary virus by the crisis, will be spent on cars that already have too many in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the Parliamentary Assembly and other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If local elections are held, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be able to say very quickly what they think about the 450 thousand marks that could have been spent, which could have been spent in resolving the effects of the migrant crisis that they will go to some privileges, etc. The worst part is, it wasn't necessary to be like this at all. On the side that for months, these three, four parties, this one, which they decide on the Budget, have, therefore, been adding to these two homes of HDZ, SNSD and SDA, in the Presidency, to add the DF, to break deadlines, to give new deadlines, to deliver one draft, to another draft, therefore, that strip lasted too long. But what definitely, which is why we shouldn't have come at all, is that we have these amendments, which are being offered today at the meeting, take or leave. The fact is, according to the proportionality of the Rules of Procedure, HDZ is not a determining factor in either home. HDZ became a decisive factor, and I spoke extensively at the last session, so there is no need to repeat myself, HDZ became a decisive factor in the Budget and on these figures, which Emrić also spoke of, the moment that SDA and SNSD decided to make HDZ by giving him two members in this Coordination Commission. And when you give two members of one nation to one party, that party gets vetoed, and that is absolutely not justified. If the party has 15% of the seats in both homes and in both Commissions has 33% of the seats, in the Joint Commission, 33% of the seats have violated the full principle of proportionality. And now I ask again why? Because in the last session, this dom was able to set up a Commission where there was no HDZ and it was fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, because the principle of proportionality would be respected, and then HDZ would have no veto and then they would not have these amendments. So, for these amendments where 750 thousand marks go for cars, and not for the economic crisis, it's not only HDZ, it's the SDA and SNSD who voted for HDZ to have that veto. And there must be no delusion, citizens must not be deceived that HDZ here was in such a position that could not have changed so that perhaps something..., HDZ has come into a position to impose something solely because SDA and SNSD gave it a place that is proportional to it..., the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative does not belong to this Joint Commission. And that's really embarrassing to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because that's why you gave 750,000 car marks. This took the people of Krajina 450,000 marks that could have been spent 5 on the resolution of the migrant crisis. These are facts and they are irrefutable. Therefore, it is extremely important that the citizens know this. HDZ has no veto in this House, the Commission could be established without a HDZ member, it would be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because proportionality would be respected, and only when HDZ gets veto is when the SDA together with the SNSD gives it a veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7900	Thank you. Mr. Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7901	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SDA MPs' club, I would like to reiterate our views on the adoption of the 2020 Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have done everything, and today we do, that the state, although with a significant delay, will receive the budget for 2020. Our ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers supported the budget proposed by the finance ministry. Our BiH presidency member, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, also supported Budžet with certain adjustments. And you know that we here at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH House have made our clear position – that we will support the Prijedo budžet coming from the BiH Presidency and that we are not in favour of supporting any amendments, either in the House of Representatives or in the House of Peoples, because we are meeting with a shorter time to get the Budget as soon as possible. After what happened, as counterpart Emrić pointed out, the House of Representatives adopted the amendment he proposed, and the House of Peoples adopted other amendments came under the formation of the Commission. Today, we had a meeting of the Commission to bring together the identical text of the Budget Act, and, of course, that I, as an MP from the Parliamentary House of BiH, had advocated that it should be adopted, that, if amendments should already be adopted, they would be amendments adopted both in the House of Peoples and in the House of Representatives. We had two attitudes. One view was again that no amendment should be adopted, nor one that adopted the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples, and another was if it was already going in that direction to adopt both amendments. Apparently, it was intended to delay the elections and produce another crisis in the country. We all understand that some political entities do not want to hold elections that would be held by the current composition of the Central Election Commission. We have pointed out, and before, and here we are today pointing out and stressing that our members of the College, Mr Denis Zvizdić, member of the College of the House of Representatives and Mr Bakir Izetbegović, will not spend a single mark of these 750 thousand KMs that are designed to purchase cars and equip cabinets. Our goal is to win the budget and elections, and someone's goals were to get new cars and produce some new crisis and move the elections. That's not our goal, our goal is to finally get the Budget. We know that a certain responsibility has been taken, a certain compromise has been made, and I believe that, and that today the Commission has not agreed on the position, you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, this House would reject the Commission's position. He'd probably do it to the House of Peoples. And in time, the Commission would sit down again and the question is how further things would happen. Finally, a compromise would have to be reached. The compromise implies that we should move forward. I think the most important thing at this point is that the state gets the budget, and in this 6 budget, it is important to support the economy and what is most important to hold the elections held by this current Central Election Commission on 15 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7902	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, Bosporus Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7903	Thank you, Chairman. So, less, more, the whole exposure of Mr. Osmanović. Mr. Osmanović You are here trying to fool the citizens that this could not have been avoided. That's not true. We came to this situation because you gave the HDZ to another member of this Joint Coordination Commission in the U.S.A. That's why HDZ was vetoed, and that's why HDZ is the first time, so there's no possibility, there's no veto in the House of Peoples or the House of Representatives, and then you veto them in the Joint Commission. Why didn't Mr. Glavaš, say, go to that Commission when you knew how to transfer it, rotate to leave the HDZ second place on the Constitutional Commission. So what you said absolutely doesn't stand, you gave HDZ the possibility of veto, and that's why 750 thousand marks now went to the cars, and 450 thousand marks won't get the citizens of Krajina to fight the migrant crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7904	Correction of the wrong quote, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7905	When Mr. Osmanović is in need of a wash, I guess, he says completely incorrect things. So there is also an electronic record of the vote at both the House of Representatives' session and the House of Peoples' session as voted by MPs, delegates from the SDA. So, what you do after the vote and say -- I didn't agree with that, but I supported it, I think it might be going somewhere, but don't underestimate us here that way. On the other hand, it's more honest to go out as your colleague Asim Sarajlić and say once again we are... back to HDZ. That's a lot fairer than what you're trying to explain to us. In addition, in one six days, five, six days, it ends four years from that meeting in Konjic when Dragan Čović sent you for a burek, when you waited 40 minutes and didn't come. Now, this is about... a man sent you back for a burek.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7906	Adil Osmanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7907	All I want to do is explain to the public certain criticisms and the testimony of my fellow Arnaut. Unfortunately, not only was HDZ here against these amendments that we are talking about from Koelga Emrić, and to accept the amendments proposed by HDZ to the House of Peoples. Both SNSD and HDZ were today the same attitude on this Commission. In view of whether one of the HDZ was in that Commission or one of the 7 others instead of the HDZ from the House of Representatives, counterpart Arnaut could not be changed because the same position was four members of the Commission of six. As for colleagues of Magazinović, of course you prefer to criticise the SDA here rather than the HDZ and SNSD, since we prefer the same electoral body, both SDP and SDA. It would be correct to give more criticism to SNSD and HDZ, and we do not need something special to justify and defend ourselves. I said what our reasons were for us to agree today and the state to get the Budget. As for barrels and getting some pies, I don't know what that is, but the SDP isn't in that position yet, you can't even go get the burek to send you to Čović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7908	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7909	Well, Article 7, of course, Mr. Osmanović, now we can go back to why SNSD had two members, which is because you gave them four delegates in the House of Peoples. Three isn't four, but it's an old story, I didn't mean to repeat myself, but here's when you want me to remind you that's why. And you remained chairman of the Commission on Gender Equality, although five votes voted, five members voted to relieve you but saved you from two SNSD votes. You're the chairman of the Commission for Equal Gender by entity galling. Was that part of this store?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7910	Wrong quote, Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7911	So, Mr. Osmanović boasts that he is in a position to be sent for a burek, and this cites as his advantage to those who, according to him, are not. As far as I'm concerned, let them send you every day. And as you laugh, we all laugh at you and your inability to explain to you the situation you've become and what you're doing. What do you do with the voices of those who support you? On the other hand, you have no right, and you have done it now and don't do it anymore, to give us guidance which we will and in what way and when we will criticise. You've made yourself enough of these satellite strangers you're conducting, so you'll end it with them.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7912	Wrong quote, Mr. Adil Osmanović, twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7913	The other way, here, so I won't do it anymore. As far as my colleague Arnaut is concerned, there is no need for me to explain something more in detail, everything has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you know that well. When you're saying something to your kolega Magazinović, some criticism of the SDA's account regarding HDZ, remember little about how you brought the House Act here that forced both SNSD and HDZ. You and your colleague did it together with HDZ. You, along with HDZ, replaced ministers at the SDA and SDS Council of Ministers. It was your cooperation with HDZ that you think the people have forgotten. And what we did here is a compromise that is good for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Budget. It is in our interest to get the Budget, and you 8 have criticised us all the time that we do not want to adopt the Budget to delay the election. We also want Budget, and we want Community elections.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7914	Wrong quote, Mr. Nermin Nikšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't like to get too involved in this, but something keeps turning out to be the culprits that there's a parliamentary majority that can't agree on anything. So let me answer Mr. Osmanović. The residence law, right, was passed for three reasons. The first reason was not to abolish the visa regime for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second reason why it is constantly being attacked is that what is being abused by this Law is being controlled there as..., and the third, and here eight years later you suggest that this Law be amended so that we can see who is for it, who is not for it and who is willing to bring something or not to bring it. It's like this all the time, something, uh, we're fighting each other. If you can agree, here's the deal, I'm glad you've reached a compromise on the Budget, uh, really, really, really, finally got this Budget and that we can finally stay alone to... accuse whether or not we're against it. The only thing that's true in this budget is that we have money for elections, nothing else, this one, because everything else is missing in that budget. So we'll see who's responsible for what's missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7916	Wrong quote, Mrs. Aida Baručija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7917	Thank you, Chairman. I would only like to ask Mr Adil Osmanović – what do the people have from his statement that his members Zvizdić and Izetbegović will not spend a brand of 754 thousand marks when they have been removed from the items – the repairing of economic damages and rerouted to purchase cars and equipment, i.e. renovation of rooms? What does the people ultimately have to do with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7918	Regular discussion, Mr. Zukan Helez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7919	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Well, here it is amazing that anyone from the ruling majority is praised for saving the state when they adopt the Budget in the seventh month of the current year. Mr. Osmanović half of this budget has been spent in six months and you find it so spectacular that you will adopt Budget in the seventh month for this year and thus save the country. The SDP will not support Budget, the SDP will not support the HDZ ultimatum. Some people in this room didn't support the ultimatums when it was much harder in '92. years, and especially now, it's not our idea to back up. This is a classic ultimatum, this is the capitulation of Mr. Bakir Izetbegović in front of Dragan 9 Čović, this is SDA's capitulation, if you will, this is the capitulation of the Bosniak team in front of representatives from HDZ, in front of Dragan Čović. After all, this is no alignment, this is accepted by the House of Peoples. I will remind you and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that in the House of Peoples, such is the Constitution, there are people who don't actually have electoral legitimacy, or they weren't on the lists or they were on the lists so they didn't pass. And that, in my opinion, is a different home for carefree politicians. Yet this House, the MPs of this House, they got individual votes, they had preferences, they were on the lists, the citizens said what they thought of them. And we're just doing HDZ, for the sake of Dragan Čović's car, we should all agree to the ultimatum and say, okay, here's for Budžet. I also want to remind the public that Mr. Tegeltija has said here several times that the funds for the elections are provided and that they can also be allocated through the reserve to the Central Election Commission. Return the stenogram and you'll see that it is. Now all of your necks of SDA, all of the ultimatums that the HDZ gives you, you want to say to the public that it's a matter of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and as your vice president said, you wrapped your spine in front of the HDZ. And that's a real diagnosis. The SDP won't support this Budget, it won't agree to anyone's ultimatum. All countries revolve around the car of Dragan Čović. Well, it's incomprehensible, it's amazing. And you gave it to the Commission, Mr. Osmanović on purpose, to make you look like the rescuers of the budget and the state, that HDZ had two members and couldn't be without them. It wasn't enough for you to do it in the House of Peoples, that you gave the fourth SNSD and HDZ to have blockade mechanisms. In this case, the budget couldn't help it either, and then you gave it to the Commission that was crucial and now you're bending your spine, kneeling in front of HDZ, saying that you're saving the state. No saving this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7920	Thank you. Mr. Predrag Kojović, a regular discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7921	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. We voted in favour of the draft budget, including Mr Emrić's amendment to help with the migrant crisis, believing elections to be the most important thing. We could never have imagined that the amendments adopted in the House of Peoples would be that kind of intellectual insult as it is, so aid economical for the resolution of covids and the resolution of the migrant crisis would be removed and the funds from these items would be used to obtain cars and renovate offices. We've seen a lot of things in the past few years, but we expect this kind of insolence from serious people sitting in the House of Peoples and here we have really overcome our imaginations. So this budget, we're going to be looking for now, uh, one break before the vote, of course it's in the hands, I think, of those who make up the official ruling coalition. You never had a problem with those hands when you were supposed to name some ministers, when you were supposed to share chairs and I hope you won't have them now.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7922	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arnaut, again. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7923	Thank you, Chairman. A member of 83, so he's talking about a break. Just because you got ahead of me last time so you didn't take a break before the vote, if you close the debate I can't ask for a break, so if you won't take a break before the vote I'm now on behalf of the club looking, and I think the SDA needs HDZ to get another burek to go, that one, so we have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7924	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. If I understand correctly, Mr. Kojović, you're looking for a break on behalf of the club, right? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] How much do you want to take a break? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7928	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7929	There's no need. Ladies and gentlemen, we plead. There's no SDP, he said he'd be against it and now I'm waiting for them to vote against not saying I gave the vote on purpose until they arrive. There you go, gentlemen. We're waiting for you. Take your seats and sign up, gentlemen. We're just waiting for you. We can vote. Please let us vote. 11 Vocabulary on – Report by the Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House on the achievement of the identical text of the Budget Law of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020 At present 31 – 22 votes against 8, abstention 1. I'm finding...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7930	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7931	What do you say, Mr. Stevandić?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7932	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-07-27-0.u7933	That you were wrong. Please, because of a number of MPs who deliberately seek repetition two or three times from now on, we are constantly finding out who is looking and we are realizing that he has made a mistake. Mr. Stevandić is asking for a re-election. You can do it again because of Mr. Stevandić. Present 31 – for 23, v 8, no abstentions. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that the House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report, which also passed the Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2020. Thank you. I'm closing the 10th emergency session. Session completed at 3:15 p.m.
