ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8166	I ask the MPs and guests to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, I am opening the 13th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which usually starts with an anthem. Ladies and gentlemen, usually the first announcements of those who cannot attend. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] We have been informed from the Office of the Chair of the Council of Ministers that the chairman, Mr Zoran Tegelti, will not be able to attend today's session due to earlier commitments, which I know are interstate. From the Office of the Minister of Civil Affairs, Ms. Ankica Gudeljević was informed that he could not attend for health reasons, and the same case was the case from Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda's Office of Finance and Treasury, which was designated by Deputy Mr. Hazim Rančić. When it comes to MPs, they only report without reason that they cannot attend, they said they could not attend: Nada of the Mladina, Branislav Borenović, Enver Bijedić and Mr Nenad Stevandić, who explained that it was out of revolt because of what he says is the illegal decision of the Central Election Commission, which is particularly being decided today. In addition, we have enough majority to work and decide, so the session has a quorum. The call for a session, and in accordance with Article 167, has already been decided that before the debate on the agenda MPs ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The announcements for asking parliamentary questions in oral form were sent by the following MPs: Nenad Stevandić, Predrag Kožul, Nenad Nešić, Sanja Vulić, Ljubica Miljanović, Aida Baručija, Damir Arnaut, Mira Pekić. These notices are in accordance with Article 168. Rules of Procedure delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to that member of the Council of Ministers to whom they apply. I remind you that a direct TV transmission has been provided for this item on the agenda. We can start by asking oral questions. Mr. Nenad Stevandić is not here and there are no questions of his Ms. Minister. The word is Mr. Predrag Kožul, the foreign minister's question. Here's your two minutes, Mr. Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8167	Comrades and colleagues, distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you all to the beginning of this session of the Parliamentary Assembly today. 2 I wanted to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as I see and see the Honored Minister is not present, which is not a newspaper. The Honorable Minister was not present at any session of this House, except at a meeting where she was appointed to the Council of Ministers. Yesterday we held a session of the Committee on Finance and Budget where we discussed audit reports that received opinions with the reserve, the Foreign Ministry is, among other things, the manager, or the minister, was not present either. I will, however, appeal to all those who can, except me, in such a public way, order, that it would be good to respect this House and to sit in the House as it is foreseen for the Rules of Procedure to come. I will read the question, however, and ask for a written reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, even if I don't expect to get it and tell you why. So the issue was about the fact that Nedim Makarevic, Makarević ambassador to Norway, issued a declaration about holding elections in Mostar City, where he called for the registration of voters of the same and the voters tried to instruct how and for whom to vote. In this way, he brutally violated the powers and standards appropriate to his function and status. I was going to ask the minister to explain to me all the circumstances surrounding this declaration, as well as the measures she has taken on this. This way I invite her to answer my question in writing. And once again I remind the public about it, but here I hope it will come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on 29.01. I asked one question at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the foreign minister, after which I also wrote an emergency, but I didn't get an answer to that question either. I believe that this, this relationship with this House, to the obligations that the members of the Council of Ministers have towards this House, is completely inappropriate and, as the House, perhaps we should discuss and react to this relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8168	Thank you. The MP is determined to receive a written reply, with his understanding and that should be Parliament's insistence and messages to the Council of Ministers when MPs ask for an answer then he must come. The word is from Mr Nenad Nešić, who has a question from the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8169	Dear colleagues, since the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not here, I will ask the question and expect my answer to be delivered in writing. The question is – When can we expect the Council of Ministers to propose a law on the restitution of property and how long has it arrived with the establishment of a Mixed Commission between BiH and the Serbian Orthodox Church to agree on which immovable property will be returned to the Serbian Orthodox Church, and which will be compensated?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8170	There's no chairman, we're expecting a written response. The word is Miss Sanja Vulić. Here's a question for the Minister of Civil Affairs. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8171	Thank you, Chairman. My question concerns the responsibility of the Ministry's Health Department, and this is what it says – Is the registration of medical resources just and exclusively the responsibility of the Medicines Agency? What is defined by law when it comes to enrolling medical means with a C mark and no C? How can medical products not included in the Register be found on the market? Since the start of the pandemic, have there been many donations of medical resources, do these donations subject to registration in the Register of Medical Resources? And finally, does the Health Sector or the Honorable Minister consider an initiative to the Council of Ministers, and in order to resolve the current director of the Agency, who, by bringing himself into the position of the suspect, and how do the law and pharmacies claim, did everything contrary to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of BiH? I must, of course, stress that our Rules of Procedure says that I can ask questions only to the Council of Ministers or members of the Council of Ministers when it comes to institutions and positions such as the Medicines Agency, namely, since this ministry has a Health Sector, I appreciate that it is appropriate to get an answer from a respected minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8172	Thank you. There's no Civilian Minister, we'll get the answer in writing, I hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8173	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8174	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8175	Not that we're hoping, but as far as I know, it's her obligation, I'm going to be asking a question until the answer gets back.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8176	doro, thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs Ljubica Miljanović, the issue of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8177	Dear colleagues, my parliamentary question is – What is the slowdown in the process of identifying the remains of the Serb nationality? Since a total of 400 people in Serbia's nationalities were identified from 2008 to August 2019, 291 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 100 in Croatia and 9 in Serbia. At present, 1,654 people are wanted, including 1,015 civilians, of which four children, 316 women, 626 soldiers and 13 members of Republika Srpska's 4 MUP. The Institute for Missing Persons of Bosnia and Herzegovina began its work in 01.01.2008, took over the responsibilities of the former Office for Missing Persons of Republika Srpska and then there was a stalemate in the process of seeking missing persons of Serbian nationality. I expect a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8178	There is no chairman to directly respond to Mrs. Miljanović and we will hopefully get the answer in writing. The word has Mrs. Aida Baručija's folk emissary. Here's a question from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8179	Thank you, Chairman, I welcome all present. Since February of the month, I've been trying to get an answer from the Justice Department how many losses have been expressed in money for prolonging or failing to serve as a state prison? The answer I received a few days ago is that the only measurable cost that can be incurred in connection with prolonging the opening of a state prison is the cost of being detainees and prisoners of the BiH Court of Justice in entity criminal justice institutions and that it is 40 KM per day for one person. I will quote Minister Grubeš of 2018 – although the prison complex is not inhabited, it is not for prisoners and prisoners the entire system is in operation and running, it is necessary to burn the heating, cooling, ventilation, control system, physical insurance, maintenance of the prison, the minister of justice explained, the quote was completed. The ministry also sees delays in the implementation of the project as producing significant material damage to BiH and affecting the loss of credibility of BiH in donor eyes, and that monthly losses are estimated at around 530,000 converting marks. My question for the minister is – Are the costs you stated in the statement continued to pay from 2018 to today, are they also the measurable losses of the BiH state that have been made precisely because of the lack of work of institutions? There, she would ask for a concrete answer if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8180	Thank you. The question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice, please, Mr. Grubeša.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8181	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. As we said that the failure of a prison in office in 2018 has caused certain costs, which is a respected representative and said, we have calculated in some way, these costs in some small form, some in some larger form continued in 2019, but here in 2020 we put the prison into office and I think that regardless of what is said to be a certain amount, so it seems that BiH has been paying some damage, I think it is immeasurable with the comparison that 5 we have put into office and that we have this institution of such great importance, not only for the judiciary in BiH, but also for dispensing entity institutions. For this reason, here, we can, which advocate asks, give more detailed information about how much we paid for electricity, water, utility and everything else that was to be paid, what it cost the Ministry of Justice, or BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8182	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Baručija's comment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8183	I'd only ask for this information to be delivered in response.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8184	The word has a People's MP, Mr. Damir Arnaut. The matter of the Minister of Security, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8185	Thank you, Chairman. Media reported that BiH citizens crossing BiH's border with a BiH ID card issued misapplication unless they own a valid BiH passport, except in situations of crossing, I think, the Serbian and Montenegrin borders. The question is concrete – which member of the law is based on such treatment, I presume the BiH Border Police? 'Cause it's a 25th. The travel documents law is very clear – a BiH citizen crossing BiH's border with travel documents that are not governed by this Act or a ID card that is not a personal ticket from a BiH citizen will be fined between 100 and 400 marks. At the same time, more than a year ago, I asked the director of BiH Border Police to provide me with information on all top officials in BiH, members of the Presidency, members of the House of Representatives, members of the People's House and some other top functions in the country, to provide me with information on whether they crossed the border of BiH over the past two years with travel documents from other countries, despite numerous issues and additional issues, the BiH Border Police Director refused to provide me with that information. First he claimed they didn't have that information, then later he said they did, and mostly all the excuses. So here's the question -- on what legal basis, this one, you punish people who have a valid bh. ID cards cross the border, and why don't you punish, or the Border Police, why don't they punish those who, the citizens of BiH, especially the top officials crossing the state border with other countries' travel documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8186	6 Thank you. Mr. Minister Cikotić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8187	Honorable Chairman, Vice-President, Honorable MPs, colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. On the issue of the esteemed Arnaut, I will remind you that on 10 September this year, the Council of Ministers made a decision to prescribe additional conditions for the entry of foreigners into BiH. That decision puts aside a decision earlier prescribed that BiH citizens with dual citizenship could enter BiH territory with a personal ticket issued by the BiH authorities, regardless of how they enter the other country from which they return. So this decision, which began on September 12th, came back into the framework of the BiH Border Control Act and the Law on travel documents handled by the Border Police in carrying out border controls. Therefore, the border police apply the applicable legal rules all double citizens are obliged to possess a valid bh. passport when crossing the border. It is only possible for the ID card to cross the border of citizens with whom we have signed a mutual crossover agreement with the ID card, so with Montenegro and Serbia, in all other cases BiH citizens with dual citizenship who, when crossing the border, or entering BiH, must also have a negative test on the coronary virus not more than 48 hours old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8188	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Arnaut's comment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8189	Well, the minister didn't answer my question, I'm asking myself, to get a concrete answer in writing. So my question is on what specific legal basis, given that Article 25a. The travel documents law prescribes when sanctions can be issued, which is for a BiH citizen who crosses BiH's border with travel documents, so passports that are not governed by this law, so bh. issued to passports or with a personal card that is not a BiH citizen's ID card. So, if our citizen has a BiH ID card, you can't punish him on this legal basis. You are referring to the Council of Ministers' decisions, but it is known that the law is above the decision, so I asked you and asked you for a written and concrete answer – on what specific legal basis? This one, and if I may ask you to obtain from Mr Galić, or from the Border Police, means the list, he said in one reply that they have such information in the database when the passport is withdrawn, I delivered the names and last names to him, so the highest officials in BiH,... that more than 50 names, all members of the House of Peoples, members of the Presidency and a few other top names, this one, have ever crossed the border of BiH in the previous two years with a passport from another country or a personal card from another country. So, if you can get me that, since you're a competent minister, the answer to that parliamentary question, because I didn't get any extra questions, plus this, please, means on what legal basis you're punishing people, and the law says if they have an ID card, you can't punish them. 7 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8190	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Mrs. Mira Pekić. The Minister of Finance's question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8191	Thank you, Chairman. Since the minister, Mr. Finance, is not here, I will ask the oral question, and I expect a written answer. In view of the conclusion this House made at its meeting, concerning the spending of the budget reserve, I will read the conclusion which reads: The Ministry of Finance and Treasury is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a monthly report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the spending and purpose of the budget reserve intended for the recovery of economic damage of 27.180.00 KM. In that sense, my question is, Minister of Finance and Treasury – Has there been any spending of budget reserve funds between 01.01 and 30.09.2020, if so, please provide me with a list of which funds have been paid, in which amount and for what purpose? I think it's a commitment under this conclusion of ours, uh, the Ministry of Finance, monthly to provide us with this review of budget reserve spending, and I hope this is the last time I'm asking the question, and now these reports will come regularly to the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8192	Mrs. Pekić is there a deputy minister, authorized by the minister, Mr. Rančić, if that can help, if you insist on a written reply you will receive.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8193	...review, can, can read to us, if the lady has a checkup and certainly delivers me in writing, it's not a problem, it can, it can.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8194	Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8195	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs. With all due respect, I will not be able to give you the answer today, so it is true that it is written that the minister is absent for health reasons and, of course, I wish him good health and rapid recovery, but I am not consulted on the authority given to me, the minister has not called, so I ask the question – who has informed both Dom and me 8 that I will attend the session? I come to the session as a deputy, I don't know who put this answer together on behalf of the Ministry, whether it's some club chief, some consultant, some clerk, this is contrary to Article 7 paragraph (3) of the Council of Ministers and the Law on Administration, and for these reasons I unfortunately can't give you an answer today. I've got an unsigned act somewhere around ten hours, where it's listed where the reserve was spent, but I can't agree to someone else determining that answer and that I'm bringing it out here. If the minister is absent, then in accordance with the law, the deputy should manage the ministry and participate in all actions, as well as prepare and respond to MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8196	Thank you. No more questions and answers reported. We're moving on to the agenda. Compared to the draft agenda, which the MPs received in due time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, here are some changes that occurred in the meantime. The following shall be removed: points 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, which requested an extension of the deadline for submitting an opinion by 30 days. Also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the report on the management of refugees and foreigners under subsidiary protection for 2019 is being downloaded at the request of the Joint Commission on Human Rights. The following points are added: point 6. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law, Proposer Saša Magazinović, a decision by the College in an extended composition. Point 16. Selection of the Director of the Organisation for the Protection of Personal Data of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate list for the selection submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. Point 17. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency. Point 18. A proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of the deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. The proposal for a law on public procurement of BiH, also complemented: MPs from the DF Club with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative for the second time. 9 I'm opening a debate on the agenda. There are proposals from the Members of the People's Parliament yet, please. Mr. Damir Arnaut, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8197	Thank you, Chairman. I propose two points of addition from today's agenda, means: The first one is – an initiative required by the Commission to preserve the national monuments of BiH to submit a public call entitled "Ambassador Fund for Culture Protection" published by the US Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A public call for projects of value ranged from $10,000 to half a million US dollars, funded by the US Ambassador's Fund for the Conservation of Culture in 2021. The Global Fund was established to help countries preserve cultural heritage and demonstrate the respect of the United States for other cultures. The deadline for submitting the US Embassy proposal in Sarajevo is 08 November 2020, and I find it necessary for the House to consider this today. I also think it is necessary for the House to send a request to the Commission for the preservation of the national monuments of BiH to apply to this contest, as this would increase the chances of approval if it were a quality application for the approval of such an application by the State Department, taking into account that such application would come as an incentive from the highest legislative body in our country. The Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments would, of course, decide in accordance with its expertise on which project or which projects to apply and, of course, throughout BiH there are a lot of such potential projects from Pocilac, Capljina, Trebinja, Sarajevo, Travnik etc. and the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments will, in any event, be most invited to determine which project or projects will be applied for. As regards the second draft to supplement the agenda, I propose that we reconsider today – an initiative requiring the BiH Council of Ministers to carry out all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia in 10 days from the date of adoption of this initiative with a view to re-tegorising the Gablea Polje border crossing for international passenger transport or the opening of the same for small-border traffic, and in any event the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary schools. This proposal was on, I tried to put this on the agenda last session, in early September, which was also the beginning of the school year, because children are now going from these villages over 14km around the Doljan to get to school in Metkovic. Unnecessarily it has been more than a month, then we heard Mr. Kožul's explanation that their deputy, that we don't worry about those children, that their deputy minister solves the issue and that it will all be over in ten days. It was shown after a month and 15 days that it was absolutely not true, those children still go 14km around the Doljan at the Metkovic school. I am aware that today at the House session in the second round of voting we will vote on this attempt to put this on the agenda, but if we go through this procedure and it goes through, then it will only come to the agenda after the session after the local elections, i.e. minors before the winter break. I wouldn't be doing these procedural stunts if it wasn't for the children whose school year had begun, whose school year has been going on for over a month, 10 more than a month, who unnecessarily goes 14 kilometers around the school and who you who vote against this proposal today essentially introduces the winter break again completely unnecessary. I'm really calling on all those who voted against last time to get the strength to change their voice, because it's about children who are unnecessarily traveling about 14 kilometers to school. I really ask you, so understand, it is no shame to change the voice, after all, if you voted against last time because Mr. Kožul said it would be settled, here it is, in the meantime that Mr. Kožul either didn't speak the truth or didn't know what he was talking about and that's why the voice changed because it's about children, I really ask you to humanly approach this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8198	Thank you. Mr. Adil Osmanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8199	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to propose a agenda item – the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office to discuss complaints. Namely, the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Appeals Office submitted a report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates to the competent service, and here was the conclusion that this was today found as a part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8200	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Predrag Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8201	I will speak to Mr Arnaut in this House, as well as to the Minister of Security, who is here, once again, the official note of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, where it is said – the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia expressed respect, etc. and to skip this.... has the honour to propose that, from 8 September 2020, the border crossings for border traffic established under the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings from 2013 to facilitate the crossing of the border in view of the start of the new school year and the need to carry out economic and agricultural activities in border areas, etc. etc. So, this letter of September 07th, your initiative was first sent to the Republic of Croatia on September 08th, as you can see from this letter, the problem is a concrete or solution to this problem, as far as I was able to find out, at the BiH Ministry of Security. So I would... and as far as I know, it's been 40 days now to take the necessary action based on this memo to not only Gabriela Polje, one border crossing, but all the border crossings, and on each side there are similar problems to more and less, we would be open and not have that problem. 11 So it is clear to you that your initiative is addressed to the wrong address and that is why we are talking about this address to ignore this first part of the initiative concerning the retegorisation of the border crossing. I'd like to, since there's a minister of security here, to hear if, the activities at the Ministry of Security are related to the opening of small-scale crossings, whether they're in the jurisdiction of the Ministry and at what stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8202	Mr. Arnaut, guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8203	So he's completely blaming the assumption that he's taking action, that I don't know if Mr. Kožul has even read my initiative. A parliamentary initiative imposing on the BiH Council of Ministers, such as the Republic of Croatia, requires this House of Ministers of BiH to implement all necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia within 10 days with a view to retegorising the border crossing, etc. So, our Council of Ministers takes all the action to ensure this re-tegorization. The Council of Ministers cannot open only a border crossing without concrete moves towards the Republic of Croatia, but requires this House of Ministers. I said last time that the problem was in the Council of Ministers, and you mentioned your deputy foreign minister that he did all of this, that it would be over in ten days, and here are the kids still going around to school. But I ask you, Mr. Kožul - is the border crossing closed, can the children go over him to school? It is still closed, children still go about 14km needlessly, and here again, the problem is in the BiH Council of Ministers, which we know whose parties are sitting in, and therefore it is necessary for this House to say what I asked the BiH Council of Ministers to say to them a month and a half ago, open up a crossing, let the children go to school the nearest way. I don't know what you're arguing about? Well, the kids are, man, the kids are, why go 14 kilometers around, why won't we tell the Council of Ministers, where the problem is, open up that crossing? I again appeal to all who voted against last time, thinking it might be settled in ten days as Mr. Kožul announced then, change your vote this time, the month and a half went unnecessarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8204	Mr. Mirko Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8205	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8206	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mirko. Here you go. I didn't see it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8207	Thank you, thank you, Chairman. I propose a new agenda item – Information from the Central Election Commission on the attempts of electoral fraud through the vote in the post office outside BiH, and the measures taken and the plan of further measures to prevent electoral fraud. 12 We are witnessing that these local elections have been reported with an enormous number of potential voters for local elections, as far as I know 150 000, that 100 000 have been accepted and that we are witnessing the theft of the identity of BiH citizens, attempts to virtually reverse the will of citizens from the post, which practically endangers the entire electoral process, raises a question about the regularity of the elections, and I would say participation, the share of votes that would come in the mail in some environments and 10% of what is unimaginable. Given that this is a serious problem for these reasons, I propose and that we get from the Central Election Commission and information on the measures taken and the measures they intend to take until the start of the elections so that this benefit that citizens have can also bring into legal, or regulatory frameworks. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8208	It would be good if we had a written application, Mr. Šarović. Has anyone reported from this side of the Council of Ministers for Word? No, it's not wrong we saw. Mr. Dragan Mektić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8209	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues and all guests present at this session of the BiH Parliament today. I would like to say something more or more generally or generally on the agenda of this Parliament, with the conclusion that this agenda, which we are already getting for a longer period of time, is meaningless, unnecessary and per Parliament absolutely ineffective. We have not received any concrete legislative proposal for a year after the new Council of Ministers was established, and in particular we have not received any reform legislative proposal from these 14 priorities set out in BiH, which would mean that BiH is intending to seriously enter into reforms and possibly meet the conditions provided for BiH to become a candidate for the European Union next year. This kind of agenda where we discuss information, various reports, reports on the alignment of this, one or the other, so this is, not to say, useless to the citizens of BiH at all. I think that the meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are expensive and that we waste these funds needlessly with no efficiency of the BiH Parliament, and especially when I see it now, I read in the media that the BiH Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly, has entered or acquired three official cars worth 300,000 marks. There's no need for anything, there's no point in meeting us if we're not going to solve the problems of the citizens of this country, so I suggest that because we don't do anything, that we don't take salaries, that we put some morators on our salaries for 90 days, that we don't receive, and within that time period, we make a commitment to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8210	The agenda, Mr. Mektić, stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8211	Well, agenda, I'm talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8212	You've come forward for an update on the agenda. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8213	Yes, and within that time period, to give the Council of Ministers an obligation to offer us strategically important laws for the lives of the citizens of BiH and to discuss and to leave BiH citizens feel progress. So, I say once again, I suggest let's be correct, let's be responsible, we won't say 90 days
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8214	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8215	take the salary, and in that time commit the Council of Ministers to deliver a set of these reform laws, especially from the areas of these 14 priorities and to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8216	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8217	I'd like to thank the representative. Correction of the wrong alleged chairman, MP Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8218	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reacting on behalf of Parliament on behalf of Mr. Mektić. So here are several false things said in his debate, not counting not to adhere to the Rules of Procedure on the agenda and around time. To say that this Parliament does not work is an insult to all 42 MPs and I claim here in front of all of you, before the public of BiH that this Parliament is working in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure effectively fully. Today we have four draft laws on the agenda, we have financial reports, budget implementation reports, we have appointments that are within the jurisdiction of this House, we have consent to ratification of the agreement. So all that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure should do and say that there is no point in working with this agenda is an insult to all of us here and it cannot and should not be allowed. Here, Mr. Mektić, if you have reviewed the agenda today, the ten MPs who launched the initiative, these are your colleagues and our colleagues, it is an insult to them when we have to and have it on the agenda and we have worked completely like the College, but everyone else that in accordance with all democratic norms this Parliament works and it does. I remind you, in addition to stagnation at the very beginning, not caused by our work, we managed to reach everything and even do what we found here from the previous call. Parliament has no agenda points behind it today. It allows a serious democratic debate and points of the agenda, even when it gets the proposal unargued and then we get this kind of criticism that we don't work and that we, that we need to disband. 14 I ask the People's MPs to think about this when they speak, about unargued criticism, that also applies to Mr. Mektić, possibly and sometimes to someone else, is it already not democracy, it is criticism and it cannot and should not happen in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8219	Thank you, fellow Radmanović. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Mektić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8220	Thank you. Well, first of all, it's an insult to 42 MPs that I don't believe it, it might be for 41, but for me, it's no offense to what I said and so I'm correcting you a little bit. I'm glad you confirmed what I was saying, I didn't want to be so specific, but you confirmed that and said that – today we are discussing several legislative proposals here, proposed by MPs. In this, there is all the sadness and all the misery and all that the executive authorities of BiH, or the Council of Ministers, I say we have no Council of Ministers here on the agenda of any concrete proposals, nothing that would change the situation in BiH. It is quite legitimate, my every honor and respect for those MPs who propose this, but what will the Council of Ministers do to us, what will the Executive Authority do to us if this work is done by MPs here and then I repeat again, thank you for confirming what I said and specifically here states that we do not have any activities of the Council of Ministers. And once again, I repeat 300,000 for three official cars, let's at least pay them to give up our share, not to go on the burden of citizens, because we are not doing our job as we should, which is that the Council of Ministers of BiH is proposing here proposals for various and certain reforms, and that we are doing it here in some mandatory legal procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8221	Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8222	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I respond to Mr. Mektić's quote when he says that some action or inaction of grief, misery and that is, concerning the work of the Council of Ministers. I think it is quite the opposite, that true sadness, misery, and what a man here holds for us is a letter and some kind of moral political lecture that he was a minister for five years in the Council of Ministers, who in those five years was even a member of parliament, from which no one saw any good, except perhaps enhanced activity, or some additional tasks currently held by certain investigative authorities, but then. Mr. Mektić, whether it's more or less, you can combine someone who has some result, your result, your action in every way, in terms of a political representative, in terms of personality, that you have the right to teach someone, bearing in mind your complete opus and all of your actions as a police officer and as a elected official, etc. is the subject of observation of various organs, in part and investigative and regarding the different periods and you are the last of you here, here I dare say, all right, who has the right to hold any sermons about any behavior and results. And I ask you to refrain, because if you open the debate once again we'll start 15 of you back to one piece at a time, starting with various periods of war, wartime, so if you want these at a time when you've performed these functions, however, unfortunately, as you yourself did on that TV show the other day, given that it's the subject of the investigative organs, I won't comment on it, but there is, unfortunately, as much as you will.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8223	Blame the quote Dragan Mektić, but stick to the wrong quote, because I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8224	Well, my guilty quote refers to the discussion, Snow White's discussion here. I can understand that she has a need, that she has an obligation and that she has been ordered to defend the current Council of Ministers, but in my discussion I did not speak individually of any member of the Council of Ministers, I spoke to her in general about the institution of the Council of Ministers and the need for executive and legislative authority not to work in this way, that some of us do not work and that we are dependent on the work of the executive authority. And I don't see what's controversial, she can have an opinion about my five-year work whatever she wants, and I know that she, I'm not crazy to expect her to have anything positive, but she doesn't understand absolutely what I've been doing, as I don't understand what she's doing. But here's the need to defend something here that's absolutely indefensible, but come on, you're telling me the arguments, what we've received from the Council of Ministers, what we've discussed here... what has the character of reform laws and what has the character of BiH's progress towards European integration. Well, we're nothing and this isn't a lecture, this is, I'm telling the arguments, I'm telling the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8225	Mr. Dženan Đonlagić, we're talking about the agenda, I remind you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8226	I thank the chairman, and welcome all present. I will also propose a supplement, or one item supplementing the agenda, now orally, and I will also deliver it in writing. Namely, I propose adding the agenda to the point – Information from the House of Representatives College on allegations that the Secretary of the Office of the Parliamentary House of BiH refused to sign consent to the state institution, namely the Central Election Commission for Use, or whether he refused consent to the House of Representatives, i.e. whether the Parliament of BiH agreed to the Central Election Commission on the traditional holding of an electoral press conference and the institution on the day of the local elections in BiH. So, I remind you that we want to get official information, so I want to get official information whether it really is true that someone, therefore a civil servant in this institution, refused to give consent to the state institution, has been stressing the state institution, in this case to the Central Election Commission, who in time addressed a written request for the administration of the Great Hall, where the Central Election Commission has held a hard-line press conference on maintenance or general or local elections in BiH for years in the previous several election 16 cycles. If it really turns out to be true, it's an unprecedented scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8227	There are no more applications for discussion on the agenda, we have several proposals to supplement the agenda, and there is a need for parliamentary clubs to consult. I remind you that Mr. Šarović must provide an explanation or material for this item on the agenda, but here is what we will decide. I'm taking a break 30 minutes before I decide on the agenda. [[PAUZA]] I ask the MPs to take their seats, it's time to start working. If some clubs need additional consultations, it is possible to request an additional break. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. We are deciding on proposals for amendments and additions to the agenda in that order as proposed. First, two initiatives by Mr. Arnaut. So we are voting on an initiative required by the Commission to preserve national monuments to file a public call for the "Ambassador Fund for Culture Protection" published by the US Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can vote. At present 33 - 19 for, 9 versus, 5 abstentions. There's a general majority, no entity majority. The second round will not be held today, so it is not accepted in the first round of voting. The second point, proposed by Mr Arnaut, is the initiative which requires the BiH Council of Ministers to implement all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia within 10 days of the adoption of this initiative, with the aim of retegorising the Gable Field border crossing for international passenger transport or the opening of the same for retail traffic, and in any event the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary schools. We vote for this initiative. Of all 31 – 21 for, 10 against, there are no abstentions. The general majority has, the entity doesn't. There is no second round today, nor was it adopted today to be Mr. Arnaut's initiative as part of the agenda. The third proposal for addition is the Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of 7 members of the commission, for the Sarajevo Office of Appeals. That's the proposal you received in writing. The chairman of the Interim Joint Commission, Adil Osmanović. 17 We vote on this report to be the point of the agenda. Present 31 - 22 for, 7 v, 2 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity no. I find that the report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of 7 members of the Sarajevo Office will be the item of the agenda. The next two points are suggestions for information, which I must say do not meet the requirements of Article 71. Rules of Procedure, but since the MPs proposed them, I suggest we vote on them. So, first, Mr. Mirko Šarović asks that the agenda point be – Information on the Central Election Commission on the attempts of electoral fraud through a post-election vote outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the measures taken and the plan of further measures to prevent election fraud. Here, we vote on it because Mr. Šarović thinks he should. Present 32 - 20 for, 10 versus, 2 abstentions. I find there's no entity majority. There will be no today's agenda item for this proposal information. The second is the proposal by Mr Dženan Đonlagić – Information College of the Parliamentary House to inform in the official form of lawmakers whether it is true that the secretary of the House of Representatives refused to sign consent to give BiH the state institution consent to the use of a large hall for the traditional holding of an electoral press conference and institutions for the maintenance of the Local Elections in 2020. We vote. Present 32 - 20 for, 10 versus, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. This information will not be on Parliament's agenda today either. Ladies and gentlemen, after the debate, after the proposal for an addition, after the vote, I find that the 13th session will take place on the next agenda. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposing: Representatives Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić, issue: 01-02-1-2573/17, since 19.06.2019. (second reading); 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-1344/20, of 02.07.20120. (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MPs from the DF Club, Number: 01-02-1-1381/20, of 22.07.20120, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 18 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Saša Magazinović, No: 01-02-1-1769/20, from 04.09.20120 (first reading); 7. Report by the College on the effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 12th session of the House of Representatives, which reads: Considering the Parliament's initiative of Damir Arnaut, which is ''imposed to the Council of Ministers of BiH to implement, within 10 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of retegorising the border crossing of the Gabela Field for international passenger traffic or its opening for small-border traffic, and in any event of the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary schools" No. 01-50-1787/20, of 16. 09.2020; 8. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliament's proposal for Predrag Kojović to include a new item in the 12th session of the House of Representatives' agenda, which reads: Discussing the Parliament's initiative of Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Damir Arnaut and Aida Baručija, which "needs the Council of Ministers of BiH to start co-ordination with the competent authorities of entities and canton within 10 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, with the aim of enabling the study of the national group of objects to all students who want to do so, enrolling official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all school documents in accordance with the names set out in the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Day Agreement), as well as the abolition of all other forms of discrimination in primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking into consideration, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Herzegovina, adopted on 16.201717 and Herzegovina. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-1805/20, since 16.09.20120; 10. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Implementation Report of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement for 2018, applicant: The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-37-1656/20, since 16.09.20120; 11. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01/1-50-3-13/20, link number: 03/7-02-4-367/18, since 16.09.20120. (first reading); 12. Proposal for a report on the implementation of the BiH Strategic Rural Development Plan (2018-2020) – Framework document in 2018: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01,02-50-18-1795/20, since 09/09/2020; 13. Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-1595/20, since 31.07.20120; 14. Report on the financial audit of the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01-16-9-1910/20 since 29/09/2020; 19 15. The appointment of the Director-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Report on the designation of a rung candidate for the appointment of the Director-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the Implementation of the Procedure for the Designation of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue 01,02-50-16-1094-5.2a/20, of 28/09/20; 16. Selection of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Report on the establishment of a proposal from the Rang list of candidates for the selection of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-16-1091-7,1/20, since 06.10.1920; 17. The appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals – Report on the designation of successful candidates for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals, submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals, issue: 01,02-50-14-1183-4/20, since 13.10.1920; 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption, Proposer: Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-16-1906-11/20, since 08.10.1920; 19. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-16-1907-11/20, of 08.10.1920; 20. A review of the parliamentary initiative of Aida Baručija, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Saša magazinović and Šemsudin Mehmedović, tasked with "The Ministry of Security of BiH to submit a Report on the Implementation of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy in the area of migration and asylum for the period 2016-2020", issue: 01-50-1-7743/20, from 02.09.20120; 21. Consideration of the parliamentary initiative of Zlatan Begić "in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the competent ministries of the Council of Ministers and other competent institutions/organities to provide, in co-operation with the BiH Border Police, the necessary financial resources and the implementation of the legal procedure necessary for the engagement/employment of the missing, or necessary number of BiH Border Police, and adequate equipment for the necessary material and technical means, with the aim of an adequate response to the problems arising from the migrant crisis", issue: 01-50-11772/20, since 07.09.20120; 22. Consideration of the BiH Parliament's initiative Zlatan Begić "in co-operation with other relevant institutions, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg requires the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to obtain official data relating to the exact number of rejected and rejected appeals to 20 citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the proceedings initiated for seeking damages arising from war crimes committed, crimes against humanity and crimes genocide (in addition to the list of cases), and to obtain official data on whether (and who are) representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina (generally and in this court) participated in these proceedings in any way and at any stage, and what was their position or their potential impact on the content of decisions in each individual case", No. 01-50-179/20. The discussion of Zlatan Begić's parliamentary initiative “in co-operation with other competent state institutions and in co-operation with associations of citizens – victims of crime committed in the gates of 25 May 1995 in Tuzla, at the highest level, and to establish contact and organise official visits to associations of victims of this crime and state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina countries that have received numerous wounded - victims of this serious crime to treat and care, and to organise in collaboration with victims' associations official reception in Bosnia and Herzegovina for representatives of these friendly states, in order to express in this and other appropriate ways the gratitude of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens towards these countries and their citizens, with the aim of developing a culture of memories and promotions amongst the nationalities, which they have failed to provide assistance to the state and to provide assistance with the necessary information. Consideration of the BiH Parliamentary Initiative Zlatan Begić "to establish the Interim Research Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the issue of the migrant crisis, which will establish facts and gather relevant information regarding the migration crisis - by conducting hearings of responsible persons, by going out on the ground and in other ways, and by submitting a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and Freedoms with a proposal for short-term and long-term measures from the jurisdiction of this home, which should be taken in order to effectively manage this crisis, in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and respect for their security and rights and freedoms that belong to them, and in terms of respect of the highest international standards of human dignity, and the rights and freedom of migrants", issue: 01-50-1775/20, since 07.09.2020; 25. Consideration of Zlatan Begić's parliamentary initiative "to which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to, in co-operation with the Rector's Conference and the High Education Development and Quality Security Agency, as well as other competent institutions, bodies, institutions, institutions, within three months of preparation and in the adoption procedure, to amend and supplement the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH", issue: 01-50-1 1815/20, since 14.09.20120; 26. Consideration of Zlatan Begić's parliamentary initiative "the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to launch, in co-operation with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the procedures necessary for the establishment of a new ministry in the Council of Ministers – the Ministry of Diaspora", No. 01-50-1816/20, of 14/09/20; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2 to the Treaty on Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, subsequently amended by Amendment No. 1 – Distribution of Electricity in 21 BiH – C (Fi 82.304 – SERAPIS 2010 – 0562), issue: 01.02-21-1-1872/20, since 23.09.2020. We continue to work in accordance with the adopted agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8231	Thank you. I thank all those who delivered the answer. I'm just not satisfied with the answer I received on the state prison issue, it's an unknown author, I didn't get the signed answer, and in response not only did it not indicate how much spending and losses Bosnia and Herzegovina had been caused by not letting go of the state prison, but it said in response that we were saving something. Therefore, they completely ignore the fact why 22 were ever made in prison, i.e. the institution and why detainees and prisoners for this prison had to stay in entity correctional institutions and have conditions to stay outside European prison rules and the UN Charter. It has also been neglected that a large number of convicted persons are waiting to be punished for the stay of detainees, prisoners from the domains of the court in entity correctional institutions. I will return this answer, repeat the question and ask the unknown author to sign me so that we can, uh, continue to communicate and lead this answer to complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8232	Thank you. Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8233	I am dissatisfied with the answer to my parliamentary question, as regards the request to hold meetings of the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives in this room. I think the answer is incomplete first, that he didn't answer my question, that he's actually a rat and there's no argument, because it's been said that it's solely because of the adherence to the epidemiological measures prescribed by the entity's competent authorities, the Brcko District and the canton to protect against COVID-19. Therefore, it is not stated which measures they are. And the other thing, I think, at the very least, should have asked the competent authority for an interpretation of the application of these measures, given that this hall, we could say, is an exception in terms of its size, height and space. I believe and think that an official interpretation should be sought from those competent authorities who have prescribed the measures, in order to get an answer as to whether it is possible to hold a session of the House of Representatives in this room. I think we see its monumentality, we see, therefore, how much room there is and I therefore believe this is an obstruction of the work of the Federation of BiH House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8234	Thank you. Mr. Mijo Matanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8235	I asked the Ministry of Education and Science of Tuzla Canton, on the hands, that is, to the attention of Minister Fahreta Brašnjić, and the question was – which is why the decision to grant free textbooks for students from first to fourth grade primary schools in Tuzla County left out children attending the Public Institute of the elementary school "Sv. Franjo“ in Tuzla. And secondly – which is why these same children who attend that school and travel from populated towns and up to 16 km do not have the right to a subsidy for the transport of students. The answer to that question was given within 15 days and I was dissatisfied. And he says that, this, the Ministry subsidizes only the children of those founders, those schools that are founded by the Assembly, or Tuzlan Canton. I believe that such a decision is not good, because all the years ago, therefore, children who attend this Public Institution, so “St. Franjo" had a subsidy, and this year they don't. Is the reason for the Constitutional Court's ruling that the constitution, 23 or that the Government is not constitutional or otherwise, largely that answer does not satisfy the basic fact that no child, this one, should be less valuable in the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular, here, in this case where I have already mentioned it. So the law was the same last and this year, and this year there was no subsidy. I'm unhappy with the answer, here it is finally.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8236	Thank you. Mr. Šemsudin Dedić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8237	Thank you, Chairman. I asked two parliamentary questions, both addressed to the Council of Ministers, who tasked the foreign trade and economic relations ministry to answer the parliamentary question. The answers are not complete for reasons why both issues cover the part-round of several ministries in the Council of Ministers. So as regards the answers for which the question has been asked, which refers to the naked cutting of forests on the Pljesevic mountain in the border zone with the Republic of Croatia in addition to the foreign trade ministry's response, which does not have official information on these activities, the answer to this question should be given by the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which also led certain activities as well as the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which has jurisdiction over the Commission on the state border, i.e. the Commission's proposal. A second parliamentary issue, the foreign trade ministry has also prepared a response to the Council of Ministers, referring to the BH Forest Public Enterprise. I believe that this parliamentary issue should also be given to the Ministry of Justice, given that it is competent, uh, in relation to those rules. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8238	Thank you. Mr. Zlatan Begić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8239	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I just want to thank all the institutions that have provided their answers to my parliamentary questions. And very briefly to add to the comment of Mr. Matanović's colleagues, that I am not satisfied with the reply of the Minister in charge in Tuzla Canton. And right after I return to Tuzlani Canton, I will personally engage in solving this problem. The children are children and they must be treated equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8240	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you and everyone present here and the co-chairs. Namely, I have nothing to be content with and dissatisfied with, I have not received any answer. You said yourself that I, uh, directed an emergency, so I think, for one six-seven questions and one initiative. There is an orderly and one question from Chief Bihac on such an irrelevant subject as the migrant crisis I have been waiting for since the last Council of Ministers. Almost every day that mayor or mayor, so on TV, is saying what's going on there, and he never answered my question, ever. Then, followed by the prosecution, which I also asked three or four questions, and a Council of Ministers initiative when it comes to the transportation of employees here. So, if it's time and I don't know how to run it, I have to admit that I haven't, here, been able to look at it,...activated by our Law on Parliamentary Oversight, so that someone can be charged with criminal action. Either I'll see it with you or already, so there's no point in this waiting this long, so for over a year waiting for an answer. Well, he can answer, I joked once in the last term, so I told those to whom I asked the question - so answer that because of an ongoing investigation we cannot give you an answer, answer one sentence. So maybe I'm not tall, I'm pretty, maybe I don't have blue eyes, I have no idea why he's not answering. And if he doesn't like to say it, I won't answer. At least one sentence answers me, so there's no point and no urgency, and then again an emergency, an emergency, I don't know what to do anymore, or we activate those provisions of the law. I mean, I'm gonna have to see with you what and how, because this doesn't make any sense then ask questions at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8242	Thank you. No more comments on the received and no more unaccounted for. We understood what you said as criticism and the Council of Ministers but also a guideline to the College what should be done in the next period. I'm closing point two. Point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposing: Representatives Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić, issue: 01-02-1-2573/17, since 19.06.2019. (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 12th session, in the second round of voting, after the College failed to agree on it. The Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a report. The Commission adopted the draft law with 22 amendments. In the plenary phase, the amendment was submitted by MPs: Alma Čolo, Damir Arnaut, jasmin Emrić, Saša Magazinović. 25 I am opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Mr. Damir Arnaut answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8244	Thank you, Chairman. I am at a session where this Law was adopted in the first reading said a lot about the very essence of the Law. What is worth repeating here before I move on to the concrete dispute of the amendments adopted by the Commission yesterday, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Dispute, the girl, it is necessary to underline that the adoption of a new law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is one of the 14 priorities of the European Commission. Without meeting this particular priority, Bosnia and Herzegovina will not get candidate status for membership in the European Union. This is not an opinion, my position, this is something I'm essentially repeating, and the leaders who decide to do so in Brussels have expired themselves. It was amazing for me on the Constitutional Commission to hear arguments that this is Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereign country and that we should not invest in foreigners. That is so much, these are so uninformed views and very dangerous to the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not about any foreign investment, it's not about any dating to anyone's wishes, it's about us handing over an application for membership in the European Union. Mr. Dragan Čović is sleazy six years ago, now six years ago, in February, as Mr. Dragan Čović, all smiling, handed over the application in Brussels for Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the European Union. So we are the sovereign country that exercised its sovereign powers, submitted a request for membership in a large club of countries, and then this great club of countries told us exactly what we need to do in order to even start negotiating membership in the European Union. Because candidate status means, among other things, you can only then, when you get that candidate status that you can only start negotiations then. We are the only country in the region that is a member of the United Nations that has not yet opened negotiations, i.e. to get candidate status for membership in the European Union, the only one. Look out, Serbia, Croatia is already a member of the European Union, Montenegro was once almost in the European Union, and has already entered NATO, Serbia which was somewhere in 2007, before Ratko Mladić and Radovan Karadžić were arrested, about the same level as we, just 13 years ago, have now closed several chapters. They're way ahead of us now. So, it is extremely important for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to understand very well that this is not about another bill, especially not about the opposition law proposal, because, as Mr Magazinović pointed out on several occasions, which with me and Mr Emrić, the co-legator of this Law, this is the law that the three of us have taken over, which still passed the first phase of the Constitutional Commission during the previous meeting of the House of Representatives. And then the signatories were members of eight or nine parties, and only two breaks from that assembly didn't sign it. So, this is no opposition law, this is no ordinary law, this is the law behind which it costs eight or nine parties and which we are, just because we are the only ones left in this House of Representatives, we were the only ones who could take it over and transfer it to this meeting. What's changed since the last call to today, from the submission of the proposal to today, is that this has gotten further on seriousness. So, and then the proposal was written in close coordination with representatives of the European Union, the OSCE, NGOs such as Transparency International. What has changed, however, is that this, as I have already said, has been significantly won by the fact that it entered in May 2019 among the 14 priorities. There's no candidate status without a law like this. 26 The fact that it is a fully European law confirms the official secretary of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest of the Republic of Croatia, which at a conference in Sarajevo a few weeks ago, pointed out that this law was almost fully modelled on the law of the Republic of Croatia, even containing several improvements in the sense that they had noticed some things that needed to be improved during the application of their law, which should only now be improved, and we have already installed them in this bill. What makes me particularly potential for the Republic of Croatia? Because it is a member of the European Union, that is one reason, but even more important reason because, according to all relevant surveys of public change, this Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest is always at the very top when it comes to citizens' trust in a government institution in that country. That's not an accident. This Committee in the Republic of Croatia, as this commission would be if this Law were adopted, is only in the last meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I think three or four ministers have either resigned or been forced to, or their shift has been carried out because of their misrepresentation, because they hid certain data because they were in some other way in conflict of interest. More than 20 amendments to this Act were adopted on the Constitutional Commission two days ago. The SNSD offered about 40, HDZ offered about 20. So, of some 60 amendments, about 20 were adopted, so 1/3. What is important is to point out that, as legislators, we have accepted as well as 15 amendments offered by SNSD and HDZ, which, in coordination with the representatives of the European Commission and other international organisations, have found that they do not violate the essence of the Law. You see, when the promoters accept as many as 15 amendments, it shows an extremely good will, it shows a good will not to insist on what we originally wrote, that we are open to co-operation, that we are open to all good proposals, that we would even accept more than 15 amendments if there were a will with the Proposer of these amendments to change them a little bit so as not to violate the essence of the Law. However, six amendments, three SNSDs and three HDZ have been adopted that, not only violate the essence of this Law, but even lower the standard of fighting conflicts of interest and below the legal solutions currently in place. Someone would think it wasn't possible, because right now we have maybe the worst, and here I'm going to delete "maybe," and we have the worst system of conflict-of-interest decisions when it comes to countries that are aspirants for membership in the European Union, worst of all. I can't say the worst in the world, probably not, but worst when it comes to countries that are aspirants for membership in the European Union. These six amendments, and I was in line with the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Mr. Emrić, Mr. Magazinović and I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure yesterday 24 hours before the meeting, submitted amendments challenging the six amendments adopted by the Commission. So we don't have a problem with the 15 that we've supported ourselves, but these six go below the current standard, which is disastrous because we don't have an independent commission to decide on a conflict of interest, among other things, but these amendments even go below that already catastrophic standard. The law shouldn't even be passed if these six amendments stay, because then we'll go under what we have now. And then, not only will we not get candidate status, we will probably get some more sanctions from the European Commission. The fact that the amendments proposed by them did not, although it was their business law, try to defend those amendments that did not pass on the Commission shows that all these amendments, both from the SNSD and HDZ, are merely a tactical trick to kill themselves in an attempt, because they are aware that if the Law passes with these six amendments, then we have a worse situation than we have now. When it comes to the concrete amendments, given that we have submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure 24 hours before the sitting, we have numbered the amendments as we were familiar with the numbering at that time, i.e. by the numbering according to which they were proposed, 27 discussed and adopted on the Constitutional Commission, these are according to the numbering that was before the Constitutional Commission – 2, 3 and 19, the amendments of Parliament Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać, the proposal is to be deleted, and when it comes to amendments by Mrs Krišto and Mr Lovrinović, these are amendments – 3, 4 and 13. In the meantime, the Constitutional Commission has drawn up a report on all the amendments adopted, so just for the sake of a stenogram, but I'm sure the secretary is very well following this, these are according to the Constitutional Commission Report of Amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 13 and 21. We have respected the business procedure, we ask that these amendments be deleted, because they completely violate this bill, do not allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to get candidate status, and even if the law was passed with such amendments would go far below what we have now, and what the European Commission has told us with this cannot, forget what Dragan had brought to Brussels before, it will now be six years ago. Well, no country in the region has waited that long except for Macedonia that had a name problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8245	Time, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8246	Therefore, it is necessary to delete these amendments. And again, I remind you, the promoters have accepted as many as 15 amendments, and we ask that only six be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8247	Thank you. You've noticed that I haven't shortened my participation in the debate over the importance of the subject, but don't talk for more than 10 minutes. Wrong quote, Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8248	Thank you, Chairman. The false allegation refers to three items from Mr. Arnaut's exposure. So, Mr. Arnaut is not our condition to adopt this and this law, but to adopt a good legislation that will address the issue of conflict of interest. I argue, and in my discussion, I will explain, that adopting this and this law would lead us to nothing, that would lead us to a blockade of its application in practice. Maybe it sounds nice to you, maybe it's good for you to have something on paper adopted, etc., what's going to be in practice it's obvious, but it's your right to think so. So, no, I deny that the adoption of this and this law is a condition, but is a condition for the adoption of a quality and applicable law which will address the issue of conflict of interest. Secondly, you said SNSD, or I submitted 40 amendments. No, it may have been you, 20 of them, it seems to me to be colleagues from the HDZ, or 19. And the third thing, what you're saying is that this was a tactical move, the SNSD on these things doesn't do tactical moves, we also have a clear attitude, a desire and an effort to adopt quality laws that will be applicable in practice, that we move in quality on the European path, and that 28 implies making a normative framework applicable in practice according to constitutional competences, because that is the only way that can and is appropriate to happen. So in the discussion that will follow, I'll explain the details. And one more thing, I deny this claim from you that the adoption of this and this law of ours has been denied this morning and three ambassadors who have written that the organizations, so the OSCE, the American Embassy and the European Commission's Office, are ready to help prepare a good law, prejudge that this law is not good, because this sentence clearly reads, which we all received this morning, that the organizations listed, the American Embassy, then the European Union delegation..., the OSCE are ready to help us prepare a good law that will be in line with international and European standards. On behalf of the SNSD Club, I declare that we support this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8249	Thank you. Wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So a few things Mr. Arnaut convinced from yesterday's session and interpreted as he saw it without actually being. So, there are other colleagues here from the Constitutional Commission, we proposed in one part yesterday, one good part of us to hold a thematic session, given that HDZ and SNSD clubs have also proposed some similar amendments to some changes, so that we can make one thematic session on this Act, on amendments and come up with some text that would be acceptable. However, the vote was voted on and we came to discuss it, and the amendments were accepted, rejected, etc. On the other hand, he said that, it is only unique to him to speak so here and allowed, that Čović, said, uh, with a smile there, submitted a request. I think he should've swept his tears, I guess, regretting the Europe he's receiving. The third thing, it seems to me that he's lucky that this law is not there, that we haven't adopted it yet, that he has this old one, because otherwise he would have been in that point he suggested in the conflict of interest because he was a connected person, guessing that someone was competing for some money. So, he's lucky he doesn't have this law, so that commission would probably take him into consideration first because he's a connected person, he's looking for something, lobbying for someone. And the other thing, we talked a little bit like he said, we just asked him yesterday if this was the European Commission's proposal, because he said it was in collaboration with the NGO sector. If this is a proposal from the European Commission, this Law, and it will satisfy that condition under those 14 conditions, then do we have the opinion of the European Commission on this law, on this bill. If we have to support him, brother, if we don't, then we're still not obliged to pass the law in line with AKI because we're not even candidates, let alone that we're a member of the European Union, that we don't make a new law in half a year. So if he claims that if we don't pass this Law, we have a law that works how it works, and it's from the thinking of the European Commission, then I'd like to see that 29 opinion whether this Law is, therefore, consistent with what they're looking for, so that we raise our hands, brother, that we don't suffer, that it's not just him for European integration, and the rest of us don't mind being against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8251	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, guilty of allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8252	Of course it's a guilty allegation, so I've never lobbyed for any money, and that's an absolute lie, unless you refer maybe to what I tried to put into this House this morning to allow the National Monuments Commission to apply for the American Embassy Fund, which, of course, is consistent with my work. And the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest in the previous meeting has stopped with its work, which the chairman can confirm, after the open issue of Mr Dragan Čović, then a member of the Presidency, and the Foundation, is whether, the HNS that received more than the allowed amount from the budget. That's when the work of this commission stopped as we now have. And it's no wonder that your amendments, among other things, are trying to introduce it as no longer a conflict of interest, that you can be a member of the Presidency or a delegate in the House of Peoples, and that, at the same time, the Foundation that you manage takes the money from the budget from another level of government. Now, that's what we need to stop, and the European Commission tells us, among other things, that we need to stop it. And here I am now going back to this, this, which is Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać selectively... letter from the ambassadors of the OSCE, the European Union and the United States. All the club bosses got this. And Mrs Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać read the last sentence of the last paragraph, which as such was completely drawn from the context, because when you read the paragraph, they say before that we need a good law, then they say – we are concerned that certain amendments and additions to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest adopted by the Constitutional Commission in 12.10, so the overlaps, not yesterday, do not reflect international standards. That's exactly what I was talking about for 11 minutes, so Mr. Radmanović warned me that I was... time. These six amendments, which is why I dispute these six amendments, because with these six amendments the Law does not meet, does not reflect international standards. In particular, we are concerned about the changes and additions restricting the delirious law, narrowing down incompatibility with regard to engagements in public and private enterprises, excluding related persons from the Part-Circular Act, and not introducing the necessary guarantees of the independence of the members of the Commission for the implementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8253	Time, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8254	And only after that do they say – we believe that the House of Representatives will take a constructive approach, and when considering these amendments and additions to the Law take into account previously stated observations and their commitment to reforms and European integration. Our organizations are ready to help you prepare a good law. So they tell us this, these amendments of yours aren't a good law and they're willing to help us. Because if you don't understand 30, Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, to remind you, the law before it becomes law goes to the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8255	I ask the Members of the People to observe the times. Wrong quote, vice president, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8256	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am very supportive of all of you. I am correcting the guilty allegations of a representative of Arnaut who is trying both yesterday and today, and all the time, in public to say that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has not worked or held meetings due to the case in question against Dragan Čović. That's not true, that's not true. Our commission stopped working the moment we had no conditions to make decisions, because the Rules of Procedure of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest defines that decisions must have at least two votes from each constituent people. In order to recall, any decisions taken on that Committee were unanimously taken, so any request to initiate the procedure, the phasing-out procedure against any member who has been made was unanimously and any decision to impose sanctions was taken unanimously, regardless of the names in question. It has never been mentioned here, neither before this House nor in the public, how much we have had a decision on sanctions from certain officials sitting in Parliament, only mentions the request of Dragan Čović, who, by his own knowledge, etc., has received a certain amount of funding from a certain association which, of course, is beyond what the law defines. So, there's no problem with any official today that the issue in question is resolved in accordance with the law as well as with any other cases found before this Committee doing its job. So, I ask you to be, and our intensity is that this law, that we all be the same before it, is why the views of the members of the HDZ to pass a law which, indeed, would be the purpose of preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties and the prevention of public duties, means preventing private influence on the conduct of decisions in the conduct of public duties, strengthening the integrity, objectivity, transparency and trust of the people and citizens in this Act and those who act on behalf of both this and all other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8257	Thank you. Regular discussion, Mr. jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8258	I thank the chairman. As one of the promoters, and in the earlier assembly of this House and in this assembly of this House, as well as the President of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest in the previous meeting, I would like to refer to this amendment phase, the amendments adopted on the Constitutional Commission, and some of its views on how we have now received the law after this amendment phase and whether it will really be a good law. And what does good law mean to us? We all have different views, and through these 31 points of view, we want to achieve certain goals, we propose some solutions, and we think that these are the best solutions, so I will also be free to say that after this amendment phase we do not have a good model and a good solution to the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me just say briefly that we have started these activities to improve the conflict of interest situation in 2017 following the GRECO evaluation of the conflict of interest system in Bosnia and Herzegovina where GRECO has made certain recommendations on what needs to be changed in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in order to significantly improve the conflict of interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of the advisory, implementing, control mechanism of conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In line with this, public debates, debates, round tables, were conducted with the NGO sector, experts from this area in order to achieve a good text that would be acceptable to the Parliamentary Assembly. And so in this debate there were representatives of a number of political parties in the previous term, a fellow Arnaut was already talking about it, and we came up with some harmonised text that has started its legislative process since 2017, and here today it is in the amendment phase. A colleague Arnaut has already said about some amendments that have been accepted, that is, adopted by the Constitutional Commission, which significantly violate the essence of the proposed Law, as we propose. I also believe that there are other amendments adopted by the Constitutional Commission that have a significant impact on the independence of the conflict system, on the independence of the implementation of a conflict of interest system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Amendment X, adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission, now sets out that the funds for the Commission's work will be provided at the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency. The budget of the Agency shall be executed by the Director of the Agency. It is therefore difficult to be independent if someone else implements the budget of that institution, body or body, which means that the President of the Commission will have to be in good relations with the Director of the Agency in order to be able to achieve his full function. Because agreeing with the Director of the Agency on all activities will be the obligation of the President of the Commission, and thus distorts the independence, efficiency and functionality of the Commission's work. This was not so defined in our text of the Law, because we have foreseen a permanent independent body set up by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, based in the Parliamentary Assembly. This amendment is based in the Agency, the budget is in the agency, and the president is somewhere out of it. Also, Amendment XI, he is now replacing the Joint Commission on Human Rights with the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly when a list of candidates for members of the Commission is being drawn up. Because this amendment now sets out that the members, the members of the Commission, will be elected by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the basis of a list of candidates drawn up by the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I don't mind being the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs instead of the Joint Committee on Human Rights but this is contrary to the adoption of the next amendment, i.e. Amendment number XII where the president and members of the Commission are determined to elect the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the basis of a public call, from a list of candidates drawn up by the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So this contradiction should be eliminated, or one or the other. I can't put both committees together a list of candidates. Also, what differs significantly from the basic text is that now the President and the members of the Commission are elected through a public call and have the right to work in the Commission at the level set by the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 32 I believe that this model is not the solution to implementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest for reasons that, above all, the President of the Commission has a significant role to play in the work of the Commission and that these tasks should be done almost daily. And it is quite logical for the Commission to be a permanent working relationship body in the Commission, so that they can deal with the implementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest on a daily basis. In this way, it will be a body meeting only after the meeting of the Commission is scheduled, which means that the members of the Commission will be in some other institutions, bodies or private undertakings in the working legal status. That solution I don't know exists in the region. As proposings and earlier participants, we intended to establish a similar model, which was spoken of by fellow Arnaut, who works in the Republic of Croatia. And it's a good model that works and it was contained in our basic text of the law. In this way, this changes, some new model is being introduced that only solves that they are no longer members of Parliament, but will be legal experts, as it was adopted in this amendment phase, with a passed judicial exam and seven years of working experience in the profession. Therefore, given that Amendment XIII, also adopted by the Constitutional Commission, provides that all the members of the Commission have completed the Faculty of Law and passed the judicial exam, I believe that this is also not a good solution because the procedures led by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest are complex procedures where the knowledge of examples is needed for the sake of the economic profession, where the knowledge of financial and accounting operations is needed when they are being carried out, so it is good for them to be experts in other professions in the Commission. Of course, our basic text provides for the President of the Komsija to be a graduate lawyer, and it is possible for the Commission to be representatives of some other professions for this reason for complex procedures where it is highly desirable that all procedures can be carried out in the best way, analysed, investigated and based on sound decisions and sanctions. I would also like to comment on Amendment number XV adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission where the system of rotation from the constitutive peoples has now been established. So the President of the Commission is elected from each constitutive nation under the eight-month rotation system. I think this is completely dysfunctional, that the unnecessary rotation of the president at the head of the Commission, because the president has a permanent relationship with the office, he is constantly communicating with the office, almost daily, running procedures, checking, acts being signed, emergency acts. These procedures take more than eight months. So, one president starts the procedure, takes over the other president, he's probably finishing the procedure. There are different observations of the whole process, and I don't think it's an effective, functional solution. And I think that this is also a violation of the functionality and effectiveness that was intended to be achieved, i.e. the intensity of the law being advanced so that it would have better effects than what we had in the previous period, or better than the amendments and additions to the laws that were implemented in 2013. Also, Amendment number XVIII adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission predicts that the Commission's office will be back with the Agency, which is wrong, is the Agency's office. Because if the Internal Systemtisation Regulation determines jobs, everything is prescribed, then it's the Agency's office. And here we are again coming to this situation where both the President and the Head of the Office and the Director of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption are in charge of the Agency, and then the President of the Commission must agree everything with the Director when it comes to any activities related to the preparation of the Commission meetings but also to other activities related to the monitoring of 33 implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the monitoring of international standards, practice and all that can significantly contribute to the improved and quality work of the Commission to decide on conflict of interest. So I agree with this letter from the ambassador, it's not a good law, he didn't get all the improvements he was supposed to make. We have only made one half solution, we have only done so that more Members of Parliament are not members of the Commission, but we will still have one dysfunctional system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8259	Thank you. Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8260	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, on the proposal itself and on how he went through the committee of the Constitutional Law so far, we had the opportunity to hear something from fellow Lovrinović, I will explain the situation from the SNSD Club's point of view. So we are fully aware of the needs and legitimacy of this idea that we need better regulation of this area and regulation of conflicts of interest, reporting of assets, checks etc. But once again I claim that this bill is not, it would not satisfy in practice what we all seek. So, while the SNSD Club was making amendments to this proposal for a conflict of interest law in BiH institutions, it sought to correct greater shortcomings, not dealing with details, their number, as you heard, of the twenty that was, points to a completely unacceptable low level of quality of the basic text. I repeat, as I said on the Constitutional Commission, that the key flaw, in our opinion, is that it does not monitor the distribution of competences between different levels of government in BiH and certain solutions it has sought to regulate situations beyond its basic task and reach. That bill, and even the way the Constitutional Commission passed, except vertically, is neither horizontally in line with other regulations that are in force, I repeat in force in BiH, which raises its basic meaning, i.e. Administration. I Saću to begin to illustrate the specific and key moments and key shortcomings in the application of this Law, as regards Articles 15, 16 less and 17 of this proposal. Namely, due to certain solutions offered in this, in these specific members, and others, there is the impression that the authors did not know or do not know the general places right, because the text is not nomotechnically correct, it does not contain provisions that formulate other or unregulated issues, such as the concept of rules in the administrative procedure, etc. and they are significant, there are significant weather problems. Here, in particular, so in its Article 15. as it stands now, as regards the verification of the data from the report, a solution is provided, of course, that the Commission is carrying out a verification of the accuracy and complete data from the report by comparing that data with the data collected, etc. In which it is not known in this country, and in most others, checking the accuracy and complete data, it means a kind of investigation, conducted by police agencies and prosecutors, and based on the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is all subject to judicial control together. A legal solution as provided for by this Article 15, that the Commission, you may think, adopts a regulation on the collection and verification of the data contained in the report, this, on the financial situation of the holders of public 34 functions, is unsustainable because the regulation and sublegal act of this type cannot regulate these actions. On the contrary, this is how we come by, we would come, if we accept this, to the legal situation that a body formed by the Parliamentary Assembly, wherever it is located, therefore by the legislative authority has an interference in the jurisdiction of the judicial authority which will lead to confusion and competence and violations of the principles of the division of power. As for the second disputed rule, which we also consider, as you all know better than me, you know that I am not a lawyer, although I love law and I have very, very great associates and friends who help me in this preparation, that the rule can edit some of the situations that are already described in the law itself, and introduce an abnormal practice that with two regulations you are completely changing the legal practice right now, which is currently in force in this country. Therefore, Article 17 provides for a second regulation, which reads that the Commission, in this regard, will regulate the competence of the Commission in Article 17, and says in its position (6) that the Commission is to adopt a regulation on how to conduct the procedure, to deliver a decision, and to draw up reports. Also, my friends warned me that the procedure could be judicial or administrative, and whatever it was stated, but it was not stated, and we warned you on the Constitutional Commission that it was not a certain way of proceedings, it was possible that some regulation should be more detailed and specific about some actions, but provided that previous legal proceedings were carried out, that the laws in this area were harmonised, which is essential GRECO recommendation. GRECO recommendations regarding, you draw out of context, and you also perform very selectively, so it concerns, of course, the introduction of an impartial body, new laws, etc. But the focus is also on harmonising regulations because people are aware that if we don't harmonize the regulations and we don't agree to bring them free. If it's anyone's interest to bring free, to promote it a little pre-election, and I can understand it, but Mr Arnaut I don't understand and I don't allow you to be a measure here, neither is it, nor has you got the capacity for anything, that you're suffocating us here as, my Bog, this and this law measures the European way. You are not relevant and by this order you have shown, I am sorry, that legally too, I dare say, you were not at that moment capacitated, together with the group, to perform a good and applicable solution. So, from this point on, it can be determined that such a proposal and I will dare say this way of working on a European path is a couple of excellent examples of how we should not work. If we're going to work like this yesterday even if it was a proposal I don't think I can remember who, that yesterday the Constitutional Commission stops its work and that we give ourselves a period of a month to coordinate, find good solutions, that we all try because we've all shown good faith, and that we're aware of the need to pass this law and make a smart solution, means by refusing such a proposal, you've actually demonstrated what you want. You want populism, you want a story, you want to run out there, you want to talk about how we're not for this, how we're not for what we really are for, Mr. Arnaut, and we know better how to fix this than you do. So, I'm really asking you to, we'll see how this goes, I don't know if you've noticed any more significant, significant problems exist after the Constitutional Commission and this text as it came out yesterday, home to take us home, if that's how you imagine a European path, may Bog help us all. I mean, thank Bog you don't have the capacity to decide on any path, let alone the European path, but here I would return to this letter once again and realize the good will and realize very well that last sentence, regardless of the context and the indication before that of certain paragraphs and some warnings, that we would really somehow get out of this situation and approach the creation of one quality text of the law, to harmonize everyone at the level where they are and where they participate, where they can participate in a qualified majority to bring the relevant laws at the level of the entity and to accept jobs in accordance with the competences, in accordance with constitutional powers and that we really do. This is not the way, and I am asking my colleagues to understand and accept this 35 argument that I have made and to catch up with, again I say, work to do some good solution that will be functional and applicable in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8261	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8262	Thank you, Chairman. Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, so Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać doesn't matter if you're a lawyer, I don't know how many lawyers there are in this House, don't all have to be lawyers, it's important that you're prepared for what you're saying and you've shown that you're absolutely not. Because Article 105. The Rules of Procedure order the legislative sector to verify the correctness of each bill and you said that this Law is not without technical correctness. However, the mišeljenje of the Legislative Sector says and there it is on your monitor, you can click on it, if you had prepared you would have known. The opinion of the legislative sector, which is signed by the Head of Law, Mrs Mirjana Kutanjac, says – The pre-law reflects by its structure, form and style the rules for the making of legal rules as well as the uniform rules for the making of legal rules in BiH institutions. Therefore, the word here that the Law is not unambiguously correct, and before you is the Opinion of the Legislative Sector which has been ordered by the Rules of Procedure shows the fundamental ignorance of this matter, because the law, not without being able to come to another reading, could not at all come before the competent commission, but would, in accordance with Article 105, which I am talking about if there were shortages, would have been ten days or seven days to correct them and if they were not corrected by the College would have decided that the law could not go further. However, the opinion of the legislative sector is completely contrary to what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8263	Mrs. Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8264	Mr. Chairman of the Rules of Procedure's violation refers to a member of the abuse of time, so what Mr. Arnaut has said is not at all a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a guilty allegation and a very conscious use because he has two, so this one. And as for Mr. Arnaut, whether I'm prepared or not, I'm, why I said about nomotechnics is, I've very well explained, uh, citing the exact examples that you've been making up legal acts and making up. I guess the legislative sector has betrayed, I guess I can't argue, because it's being held up, it's not the state of the solutions that you've predicted there, and I've just pointed out and supported the arguments that I've stated by taking concrete examples out of the text, so it doesn't stand for what you've said.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8265	Mr. jasmin Emrić, guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8266	36 I wish to correct the wrong quote of my colleague when she said that we had proposed a bad text of the law. We have not proposed a bad text of the law, we have already proposed a good law, it is not perfect, but it is good and much better than the existing solution, an existing solution that does not work, which is blocked in 2018, so that I do not elaborate on why and how the conflict of interest in BiH institutions is blocked. Therefore, when the Constitutional Commission adopted these amendments, then the essence of the Law is violated, and then comes this Ambassador letter where they say it will help to make a good law, because what is now an integral part of the Law, this model, it is not good and what I previously discussed, it is not good, because we will not get an effective and functional mechanism that will enable the implementation of conflicts of interest and improve the system of conflicts of interest as previously contained in GRECO recommendations, but also the practice and EU standards similar to what we have proposed, and this is what is proposed by a basic text of some minimum that would satisfy all political actors at the time, and here are the current political actors in terms of some compromise. What we now have after the amendments adopted by the Constitutional Commission, it is now a problem, because we will not get a good law that can be implemented, we will again have some open questions in law enforcement and the possibility of blockade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8267	Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So yesterday, on the Constitutional Commission, I spoke one of my impressions in general about this Law, not only about this Law but also about the state of Parliament, and I don't think today chairing it again, so it won't take a lot of time, don't worry. But, uh, I mean, this is what we've always talked about, and not just us, but other colleagues, that we want a good law, but it's actually a systematic law, and we've been saying that it needs to be done by someone who's going to do all the elements that Mrs. Bursać talked about, take into account and propose a law that is enforceable and that is consistent with other laws and regulations. I, here, can be relatively pleased, some amendments have been adopted, which we have proposed, but I was also saying that we cannot fix the amendments to this text, we cannot fix it, but some are obviously in a hurry. Obviously, we're in a hurry, maybe we're late with this, I agree, we should have done it before, but there's no need for us to bring this kind of system code in this way, and even yesterday, we suggested, as we were already saying, take a break, take one thematic session, try to agree all the views, really get to the law by consensus. Why wouldn't this law in this House be passed by consensus? There's no reason, there's no element here that we're diverged about this so we're not all for it, but as suggested obviously we can't. The question arises – what is the concept of conflict of interest, is this a crime? So, I think we intend to pass anti-corruption preventive law, and what has been proposed in all of this despite these amendments that have been adopted, which I have also proposed among other things, it seems to me that we have passed another criminal law. And it is not good, therefore, if the conflict of interest is a crime then it should be put there in the Penal Code, because public persons and people acting in public functions will, in spite of findings and opinions both under this Act and under the applicable law, again subject to criminal provisions under other laws, if they do criminal acts. So here everything was mixed up and, say, ten years ago when some other amendments and additions to the law and the law that we now have 37 Vencian, there was a suggestion that a person acting as a public office could not run in the elections, so the Venice Commission said that gentlemen can't do that, every BiH citizen has the right to run, but therefore he must be aware of what his conflict of interest is. So, if a gentleman is going to run, then he has to be aware that something else is going to be his conflict of interest and he won't be able to behave or he won't be able to behave. So here it seems to me, my impression is, I don't have to be right, that there's another criminal law, that one commission like this is given the authority to follow, to judge, to punish, instead of, that the law is the one that brings first warnings, and then some sanctions or strict procedures that will tell the public-functioning officer that it can't do that. If that's a felony you should put him in the Penal Code then cut off a sentence there for four, five years. You have also seen here in the Law what a proposal and a range of those penalties, so to speak, from a thousand marks to 20 thousand, so you will be called by experts that Emrić there mentions, so to artificially know how much damage has been done to someone, what damage has been done, etc. So you have provisions there in one article that, therefore, you must not, what is not to be there, say, do not read now, do not waste time, it says – must not affect those who make legislative decisions. And if it is, if we're in the law and we're doing what else we do than make legislative decisions, so what's our job instead of lobbying for my law or yours to pass, to get to the best law, so we're making laws, we're the ones making the laws. The main intensity is that there are no members of Parliament in the commission, he says. I think on the contrary, I think there should be members of Parliament from one home and another, perhaps from opposition and opposition, because this Parliament needs to be answered, everyone in this Parliament. I am so that perhaps the members of Parliament may not be the majority there, that they cannot influence the decision-making of the commission, but that they may also be there. And I'm in favour of the commission to file a report to us, and it's under the law there, so I haven't even put it in the amendment, so when he submits the report, and we don't adopt him to disband the gentlemen, so they have to answer to someone. So you know what powers we give to that commission, I don't know if you've read it. All in the floor, under the cloak of anti-corruption struggles, conflicts of interest, as if it were preferable immediately that all people acting as criminals, etc. So you have a situation there that a man can't be a member of the committee if he's in public office. For example, the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency can also not be the director of the Agency if he is a member of the political party and if he was in one, he cannot be, and then he can't do the same well when he leaves that position to be a member of this committee and things like that. So, simply and... this law, which has been in circulation for a long time, has been given its opinion by the Central Election Commission and the Council of Ministers, I will remind you, in 2018, you have this in addition to earlier materials and there, both of them have been said in those materials, that the solution of the office is not set at all right, that this should be resolved by the Central Election Commission and by the Council of Ministers. So it's not defined how this office is going to do business. And finally, if I don't take up more time, so if we want a system law, we really need to take time, what we proposed yesterday on the Constitutional Commission, we're going to make one law that we're going to vote unanimously, so by consensus. This in my view is not a solution and regardless of these amendments that have been accepted, so there will be a lot of doubt still, there will be this Committee, I have a feeling that, a little maybe I was a little bit more banal when I spoke, act so that someone will tell Mr. Lovrinović you know so your brother is there in some conflict of interest, and you could support some law. I'm experiencing it, that commission as one threatening body of democracy, democracy. So, that body must also have its own supervision and I mean parliamentary again, here we can't influence his work, but our people inside must be, in my opinion, at least to see what they're doing, so when we don't adopt their report once a year, then we say, gentlemen, you haven't satisfied. But there, 38 of you have a measure planned by the Court of Appeals, so you have the bodies of prosecution, you have the prosecution, you have the court, you have a commission here that judges and sues you and determines the sentence and tells you that you are in conflict with the interdeeds and turns it into a criminal act. Here I think that I have been this graphic enough to tell you what all the traps of this Law are in good interest, I am willing to work on it and again, if this solution and opinion is not common in our Rules of Procedure that we have the opinion of the European Commission, if this is an opinion that will satisfy both the conditions and tomorrow our candidate status, so let us see that opinion, if so let the European Commission write it down to this Parliament and make a precedent this is a good law, it is in line with European standards and there is no problem here we will all probably raise our hands then. I think it's not like that, they want a new law, the old one's bad, but we need to bring it, we need it... we don't run away from anyone, we all want to cooperate, I hope, and that's how I've been through it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8269	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on point 3. Break 59 minutes, 15 o'clock. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8271	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8272	There's more of us, enough for the quorum. We continue to work, ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Taxes before the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1,344/20, of 02.07.20120. (second reading) 39 The bill adopted in the first reading at the 12th session of the House. The Constitutional Legal Commission has sent you a report, as you have seen, the Commission passed the bill. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. I'm finishing duck four. Point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MPs from the DF Club, Number: 01-02-1-1381/20, of 22.07.20120, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8276	I thank the chairman, and I welcome you and the deputies, colleagues and colleagues. So it is a law that removes an anomaly that currently exists in the Electoral Law, which allows both MPs and ministers to perform their duties at the same time. It should be fair to say, that this amendment to the Law, which made it possible, was brought in a good intention to bridge one period after the election, but then became a form of behavior and practice in our society. This law provides for a new possibility in BiH's 40 parliamentary lives, which is freezing the mandate, which is what it is. So no one will challenge anyone who is currently in the position of the minister at the time of the election of the electoral will of the voters and the mandate won, however, persons in such a position are asked to choose whether they stay in the position of the minister or in Parliament. If they stay in the minister's position, then on a temporary basis, their place takes the first from the list. This is a model that exists in the Republic of Croatia and has been applied for many years in different situations. This Law also allows for the longer absence of MPs in a way that parliamentary obligations do not endure, whether that, God Bog, treatment that lasts longer and where people are disabled in performing their phonies, whether it is education abroad or any other reason, but there is the possibility that a representative freezes his mandate to a certain period, and in his place, of course, comes first from the list. At the moment he activates the mandate, he continues to consume all his rights. In the Croatian Parliament where this has been a long-standing practice there have been several cases, it seems to me, and the situation where someone's leniency was one of the reasons why people on a temporary basis were leaving the Parliament, doing some work, whether for the Croatian government or whether it was private or otherwise, where no parliamentary work has suffered. We are in a situation today that, unfortunately, I may Caricate, but sometimes it is true, we need to coordinate our obligations in Parliament with the Federation government's meetings. This is an eclectic example, there are as many as seven ministers who are also MPs. Not to mention how many MPs are in the cantonal parliaments, and they also act as ministers, there is only one such case in the Republika Srpska government, i.e. in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and is again tied to the Federal Government. I think that, at least as I've heard from the comments, something that goes into favor and political parties, reduces the public's exceptional animosity to those personalities that are not of their own free will and by their own decision, but by the most common set of circumstances in this situation. I have also spoken to colleagues who are here in Parliament in this situation and, of course, they support this Law, deeply aware that one person at the same time cannot behave in a sufficiently good way in a greater number of functions. What is a newspaper that is not only about the simultaneous behaviour of the ministerial and parliamentary functions, which is this institution of freezing mandates, I think is something that will, in a qualitative sense, contribute to the work of parliaments at all levels and allow the capacitated staff elected to Parliament to do other jobs, so that Parliament does not suffer, and if that, whether it, ends or if it lasts shorter than the parliamentary mandate to be returned to Parliament. I think the quality of the government will also be increased in this way, today when, here, it may not be the happiest example, but the government of Canton of Sarajevo will probably have a third composition, uh, during this term, I'm sure some of the people who have taken over here in Parliament might have a ministerial position in the cantonal government, but that's why someone would do it when it's limited to three or six months and loses their parliamentary mandate. I think it's clear to all of us, I thank, of course, the members of the commission and everyone I've spoken to, I've talked to people from all the political parties who've given their suggestions and supported them. This could have gone into an emergency procedure, it's not a complex law, but it's precisely out of intent that if there's any suggestion it might fix in the amendment phase, uh, I decided on a regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8277	41 Thank you Mr. Magazinović. No more reports. I'm closing the hearing, point 6. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law. Point seven, Ad. Seven. Report by the Kolegijum on the effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 12th session of the House of Representatives, which reads: Considering the Parliament's initiative of Damir Arnaut, which is ''imposed to the Council of Ministers of BiH to implement, within 10 days of the date of adoption of this initiative, all the necessary procedures for the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of retegorising the border crossing of the Gabela Field for international passenger traffic or its opening for small-border traffic, and in any event of the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary schools" No. 01-50-1787/20, of 16. 09.2020 Last session of the House did not require an entity majority in the first round of voting. The college said the commission did not agree on the proposal. The Commission's report to the College you received, the debate is closed, and we remain to declare later in the second round of voting on this proposal. I'm finishing point 7. Point eight, Ad. 8. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Predrag Kojović's proposal to include a new item in the 12th session of the House of Representatives' agenda, which reads: Considering the Parliament's initiative of Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Damir Arnaut and Aida Baručija, which "needs the Council of Ministers of BiH to start co-ordination with the competent authorities of entities and canton within 10 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, with the aim of enabling the study of the national group of objects to all students who want to do so, enrolling official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all school documents in accordance with the names set out in the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Day Agreement), as well as the abolition of all other forms of discrimination in primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking into account the figures of 1609-19.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8284	I thank the chairman. I will briefly, given that this is an important strategic document, and that, when we adopt the same, we have requested that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH report on the implementation of the Strategic Rural Development Plan, I believe it is justified to make a brief comment, because it is a good job, it is a report that was very difficult to express in view of the data structure that has been collected, on the methodology for collecting data to be unscheduled, and the working group had a difficult obligation to make indicators on the basis of which it will assess and assess the implementation of the Strategic Rural Development Plan, as well as analysis, data processing and this Report itself. Therefore, this document and if it is not the right picture, it is the best approach to the existing situation in rural development, i.e. this is an image of the current implementation of the plan, the Strategic Rural Development Plan. This document contains analyses of the sub-measures, measures, objectives and visions, so I will briefly comment on an analysis of the measures that are very important in order to determine how and how the Strategic Plan is implemented. It is therefore the measures which essentially contribute to rural development and the improvement of rural infrastructure. The first measure is direct support for agricultural producers. As for the Federation of BiH in 2018, investments were reduced by 5.5m or 8% compared to 2017. The Republika Srpska has increased investment by 12.8m compared to 2017, and the Brcko District has also increased investment under the measure by 1.3m or 14% compared to 2017. Second measure, support for the investments of agricultural enterprises, producer groups and processors. The Federation of BiH has invested 1.35m in the implementation of the measure, 8.77m in Republika Srpska, and a reduction of more than 550,000 conversion marks was recorded in Brcko District compared to 2017. 44 Third measure, support for professional training, knowledge development and provision of advice and information. The Federation of BiH, or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, did not finance activities under the measure. In Republika Srpska, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management invested around 520,000 converting marks for activities under this measure, and there was no financing of activities in the Brcko district in 2018. Fourth measure, support for rural infrastructure development and improving the availability of services to the rural population. In the Federation of BiH, there was no financing of activities under the measure, 3.95 million converting marks were invested in Republika Srpska, and around 281,000 conversion marks were invested in the Brcko district. Fifth measure, support for diversification in rural areas. The Federation has not been financed activities under this measure. About 200,000 converting marks have been invested in Republika Srpska, and the Brcko District has not financed activities under the measure. The sixth measure, supporting the development of public infrastructure, quality and services in the agricultural food sector. The Federation of BiH, through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, supported manufacturers and processors to meet the standard of 34 thousand converting marks. In the name of the measure, 52.9 thousand converting marks were invested in Republika Srpska, and the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Brcko District invested 5.5 thousand to meet standards and certification. The seventh measure, support for systems and services in the veterinary and phytosanitary areas. The Federation did not finance activities under this measure in 2018. Republika Srpska has invested 1.9 million converting marks for activities in implementing the measure in question. The Brcko District implemented a sub-measure relating to support for the health and animal protection programme. The eighth measure, support for organic production, environmental protection and a reduction of the impact of climate change. The Federation of BiH has invested 134,000 converting marks, in Republika Srpska 145 thousand converting marks, and in Brcko District 8,200 KM. The ninth measure, support for the development of the administrative sector and information support services. The Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry did not finance activities under the measure in question in 2018. Republika Srpska invested in 2017 and 2018 in 260 thousand converting marks for the implementation of the measure in question, while the Brcko District had some activities, but no amounts were mentioned. The 10th measure, supporting the development of institutional management capacity. The Federation has not financed activities to implement this measure. Republika Srpska has invested 154 thousand converting marks through the competent ministry and the Brcko district has supported investment in this, in this measure of 23.5 thousand converting marks. Eleventh measure, multidisciplinary activity. The Federation supported the procurement of agricultural equipment and machinery. Republika Srpska has invested 60,000 converting marks in the implementation of the measures, and the Brcko District has not financed activities under the measure. So the summary of the analysis of the measures is this, the Federation of BiH did not finance activities for measures 3, 4, 5, 7, 9 and 10, respectively, for six measures. The Republic of Sprska has financed activities for 45 all measures of the Strategic Plan and the Brcko District has not financed activities for measures 3, 5, 11, or for three measures, and for measures 9 and 7 no financial amount is mentioned. From this review of the analysis of the measures, it is evident that the Strategic Plan at lower levels of government is partially implemented, somewhere more than 70% of implementation of this Strategic Rural Development Plan, but it is very important to highlight, instead of the conclusion of the recommendation contained in this Report, that, when planning the budget for agriculture and rural development, the competent institution ensure that the allocated funds are not less than the amount planned by the Strategic Plan, i.e. other words, that lower levels of government finance certain amounts of the Strategic Plan all the measures provided for in the same plan. Also, I would like to refer to the conclusion adopted by the Council of Ministers, which is contained in the accompanying act of this Report, which is in charge of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH and the competent institutions at lower levels of government to implement a plan for the establishment of an IPARD operating structure in BiH so that BiH, which is the only one not using IPARD funds, will use the EU's IPARD funds as soon as possible, thereby adequately filling BiH's budget according to the planned Strategic Plan. I would like to remind you that, when we consider all the annual reports on the situation in agriculture, we have adopted a conclusion that we have tasked the competent institutions to finally establish the IPARD operational structure. Accordingly, this conclusion adopted by the Council of Ministers means that it has some plan to establish an IPARD operational structure. We also adopted a conclusion in the second month of this year that requires the establishment of an IPARD operational structure. It is a very important resource for agricultural producers, meaning direct funds that our agricultural producers could use, these are rural development funds, improving rural infrastructure, etc. etc. So I would like to point out once again that the IPARD structure in BiH is finally being accessed and agreed, that is, this technical part that is necessary for the accession of these funds that should have been at BiH's disposal for more than 15 years. Only BiH in the region does not benefit from these funds, which is why our agricultural producers are in the most difficult position in the region, and given the current situation and everything that has brought the pandemic and the epidemic of the coronary virus, I must stress that this further makes it even more difficult for our agricultural producers to survive on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8285	Thank you. Mrs. Ljubica Miljanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8286	Thank you, Chairman. I would just continue the discussion and importance, stressing the importance of setting up an IPARD operational structure, which as we know has not been established, and yet in the session...2018 the Council of Ministers adopted the Information on activities to establish the Operational Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, for this rural development. Meanwhile, the IPARD users used the following funds from 2014 to 2020: Albania used 71m euros, Montenegro 39m, Northern Macedonia 60, Serbia 175m euros, Turkey 801m euros. The comparisons for the agricultural budgets of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH on an annual basis amount to approximately 70 million converting 46 marks, and the defence ministry's budget for 2020 amounted to 283 million marks. In the creation of a gross social product, agriculture has a share of about 8% and is ranked as the fourth branch of BiH's economy. The participation of agriculture in total employment is relatively high and amounts to around 19% of the working population and therefore the non-compliance of this IPARD operational structure clearly indicates the activities so far that have missed significant resources for development, rural development and support for rural production. It would therefore be important for the Council of Ministers to continue activities in the establishment of the IPARD operational structure, in line with the constitutional structure and with the legislation in BiH that define the responsibilities in the area of agriculture and rural development, so as not to have pre-accession resources in the next period of 2021 to 2027, it is very important that we join and participate in programming for this next IPARD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8287	Thank you. Mr. Mirko Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8288	Thank you, Chairman. Well, maybe you'd just take the opportunity to point out a few things about this document that was done earlier, you see it's a document from 2018. You could say a lot, a lot of things. What might be a good thing is that after so many years we have a strategic document, it's only until '21. years and it is necessary to start preparing for a new document. This one's been brought through a lot of pain, and here, I think this is the first report, as far as I know, we don't have for 2019, and there's a lot to see, learn, maybe project for the future. I'm just a few things. This document is also likely to be prepared to show how many sub-measures, i.e. how much has been done in relation to the planning for this year 2018. We see that, since it's the first year, it's polite, but if you scratch a little bit more in this document you'll see the results in the sector of agricultural, or rural development that I'd say are very bad, with bad tendencies. Here, let's just take two or three elements we see that the share of labour in agriculture is reduced by, I think, 6,000 in 2018. If you take the data for 2019 you will see that this trend is a reduction in the number of employees in agriculture several thousand more and you can imagine what the 2020 situation will be like. So, besides watching this statistic, how much measure we've applied and what we've done, we really need to pay attention to these things. If we move forward, we'll see that the share in the store is also a bad trend. We were exporting agricultural products, I think in 2017, about a billion KM. We see that in 2018 it is 800 and some million KM, in 2019 less, and we will see what the results will be in 2020. They cannot be better given that all figures are reduced, even when it comes to agriculture, not only in exports to the European Union, to the countries of the region, but also Turkey and some other traditional markets, and exports that are, or imports that are twice as high, respectively. We need to know, so we've imported three billion KMs, we've only done 800 and some million. So from that ratio 1:3 that is now practically 1:4. When we get the results for 2020, I think we'll grab our heads and see what's going on. There's a lot of reasons for that, and it should probably take five of these, I'd say, those timings for the discussion. It is not only IPARD, the IPARD is important, through IPARD we lose a significant 47 share of the funds, but we did not use IPARD for those funds that have, in the meantime, been provided with severe torture, 20 million for agriculture, i.e. for the veterinary sector and 10, it seems to me, 10 million euros for the protection of the natural environment. We did it, but it wasn't used. This system of ours and what we get fails to exploit and, of course, all the other options that are available to us. Above all, the further trend in the security of European standard, i.e. the quality of products, so that we can export to the European Union, which is exports of red meat. We haven't done anything in the last year on this, and it's very, very important. We stopped by exporting chicken and some other products. And, of course, one of the key problems is the level of incentives in agriculture which, I can freely say, is at a historic minimum when it comes to the whole region. How can we be competitive when countries in the environment have about 10 times the level of incentives with approximately equal population or agricultural land or some others, to use some other parameters in the area of agriculture. You can't, our agriculture can't be competitive with 70 million incentives in Republika Srpska and 120-130 million in the Federation. No, there's no expert who'll say that's enough. Only in Republika Srpska should this be an incentive for milk, and for all other products some other sources should be found. I think it's a serious story and a serious debate in which we should, we should take her and look for solutions. Otherwise we're supposed to. Not to mention Turkey about meat exports, oil, flour and these other things. It's a question of who is not paying attention enough. This document was passed, but he was just brought in, but it takes a lot, a lot to maybe use those resources we have. Thank you, Chairman, I don't know if I've gone too far with time, but here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8289	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing point 12. Point 13. Ad. 13. Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-1595/20, since 31.07.20120 The Finance and Budget Committee accepted the report. She delivered your opinion, everyone has, and she referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. I am opening a debate on the report on the execution of the budget for 2019. Here you go. No one's interested. I'm concluding... 48 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8294	Here, let Emrić speak first, he's on behalf of the Commission so I'll, he's on behalf of the Commission to say first.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8295	Mr. jasmin Emrić, yeah, that's what you leave to each other. I'm the one who determines the order here as to how anyone enlisted. Here you go, Mr. Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8296	I thank the chairman. I have been appointed in front of the Interim Joint Commission to be rapporteur for this item of the agenda, so my colleague Magazinović intervened, but you have already established, the Honorable Chairman, the result of this Commission's work and it is my job to say briefly that we have done the following on the basis of this Report on the designation of the candidate-list for the appointment of the General Audit Office of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the 4th session, which took place on 17 September 2020, we established a ranking list of candidates, and then at the same session we established and we propose to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to appoint candidate Hrvoje Tvrtković, who was rated by the highest score of 50 points for the audit office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The task and chronology of the Commission's work is detailed in the report in question, so here you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8297	Thank you. Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8298	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I have a brief and unusual discussion. I was a member of this commission and this contest was, uh, pre-emptive to something in this, called, political circles marked as a competition where, which would be set up for someone on a party line. And Emrić and I, out of opposition, not by our own free will, of course, were part of it, and in this way, we had some prejudice to work in this Commission. But after that, I want to say the following. If all the competitions were to be held this way and if the members of the commission were to evaluate the knowledge of those who apply, I think it would be much better in this country. I don't know this man, and now I've had to check his name, who's got the highest number of votes. All those registered to the competition and who joined the interview had the knowledge that they could have been best rated, that they could have been the director of this institution. Mrs. Ljerka Marić, I think she was a finance minister when 50 passed the Law, knows a lot about it, Velimir Jukić our colleague, my political insinuator but someone who knows all of it, but let's say this man who got the most votes really showed, he comes from the institution, showed envious knowledge, showed that he sees what mistakes revisions make towards institutions and how sometimes he crosses the threshold and starts looking through his work and holding those who have political responsibility, and that I don't go any further. If all the competitions were like this, I'm sure the institutions would be better if nothing people were chosen in a fair way. I had this need to say here, the first thing I came from the opposition, and the second thing that I came to this Komsija with the preconception that it would lead someone to a hand that had no idea about the revision and that by force of the majority it would become the chief auditor. Fortunately, that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8299	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate when it comes to point 15. Point 16. Ad. 16. Selection of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Report on the establishment of a proposal from the Rang list of candidates for the selection of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-16-1091-7,1/20, since 06.10.1920 The interim joint commission submitted a report on the establishment of a proposal for a rung-list for the selection of directors. You have received a proposal from the candidate, so three, Mr Dragoljub Reljić 95.5 points, Mr Petar Kovačević 78.3 points, Branko Petrić with 75 points. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm finishing point 16. Point 17. It's the one we adopted in the agenda debate, Ad. 17. The appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals – Report on the designation of successful candidates for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals, submitted by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals, issue: 01,02-50-14-1183-4/20, since 13.10.1920
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8302	I'd just like to ask who's here as rapporteur for this point, is Mr. Osmanović?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8303	Thank you. Mr. Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8304	Thank you, Chairman. I, in short as the chairman of the Commission for the appointment of seven members of the Sarajevo Office of Appeals, will give just a few notes which you chaired have not pointed out. The Commission, composed of Adil Osmanović, Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać and Predrag Kožul from the House of Representatives, Lazar Prodanović, Asim Sarajlić and Marina Pendeš from the House of People, held four sessions of the Commission at which we first elected the chairman, two vice-presidents, adopted the Rules of Procedure, called for a contest, to which 31 candidates applied. The professional service examined the documentation in detail and found that 29 candidates met the requirements. At the 4th session of 31.08.2020, we conducted an interview with invited candidates. 27 candidates responded to the interview. I can say that it is indeed a very professional, capable, qualified candidate and the Commission has drawn up a proposal for a list of candidates to be adopted today by the Parliamentary Assembly. During the session, I received a letter from candidate Minja Minja-Šantić-Vidović, who informs the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, asking the service to share this letter, – this way by giving up the candidacy and asking for me to be removed from the list on which four proposed candidates for a member of the Board of Appeals, experts in the field of labour performance, public procurement, transportation and strategic business management are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8305	Thank you. Now Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8306	I thank the chairman. 52 I would have one question. On the basis of which member of the Public Procurement Act are the conditions for competition in this workplace? So, to be exact, I am told by a member of the Public Procurement Act on the basis of which the criteria are established. And I'll explain when I get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8307	Who are you asking, ma'am, the reporter?
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8308	I mean, I'm asking the reporter.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8309	Okay. The rapporteur will write it down.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8310	Namely, if he's going to write it down, here I am going to finish my question. Namely, here are the three perpetrators, member of the Board of Appeals, that is three people whose order is elected chairman, says – management law expert and/or administrative procedure. Article 93(3) of the Public Procurement Act states that three members of the GUG elected among whom the chairman must have university education of the legal direction and passed a judicial exam. Therefore, there is no indication here that these should be administrative and/or administrative experts. For the second point of competition, for the other four perpetrators, the conditions laid down in Article 93(3) have been respected that they are experts with high expertise in the field of performance of works, public procurement, transport and strategic business management. So here I underline that the conditions laid down are not in line with Article 93(3) of the Public Procurement Act and that this raises the full regularity of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8311	Thank you. Mrs. Snježana Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8312	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't dare, and I don't feel competent, although I was a member of the Commission, to answer like this now, this, Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, but Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic, six people worked with the support of two secretaries. And I really don't dare, so I can't believe that you are, so you can take a flat rate. Every piece of paper has been examined multiple times, uh, and in the end line anyone if they had any doubt there are other instances. Indeed, Parliament is no second-degree body, or I don't know what. A list has been established, the list is on the agenda today, and we are pleading on the list, this, as it was based on a competitive, conducted competition procedure. So I would not go into further discussion even though I am a member of the Commission, nor do I think anyone should answer to Mrs Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic today because we are talking about the list of these six people who were on it. As for, or seven, but here, we have today's information, and we've been passed on, uh, the statement of one of the candidates that was on this list, so we don't actually have seven more on the list, but we have six. 53 In this regard, I would suggest that the House of Representatives complete its conclusion No 01,02-50-16-1730-2/20, of 11.09.20120. Namely,... the conclusion that we established the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement the procedure of appointing members of the branch office to discuss complaints in Banja Luka and Mostar. I suggest that this conclusion be amended as follows to add the words "and one member of the Sarajevo Office for the Review of Appeals" to the conclusions behind the word "Mostar". Then, in Article 1 behind the words, the last words "management" should be added to the words "and one member of the Sarajevo Office to discuss complaints". And to be in Article 3 also behind the last word that is in this case in Article 3. "year," writes 5 years, adding the words "and one member of the Sarajevo Office to discuss complaints from others". So, this, given the emerging situation, we would simply speed up the procedure in some way, given that a commission has already been appointed to carry out the procedure for the appointment of members in the branches, in Banja Luka and Mostar, to save time and be more efficient, to do the job of appointing, a proposal for the appointment of this one member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8313	Thank you, Representatives Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8314	Well, I really don't know why a colleague is constantly questioning some of our knowledge of rights, both me and Mr. Arnaut, when we're lawyers. That would be the same if I questioned her knowledge of medicine and specialities she specializes in. I disagree with part of the discussion, correcting the false assumption that we are here to decide on the appointment, and the material on which we decide is the report, therefore, the Commission on the basis of which we decide. If I, as Parliamentarian and representative in this House, have observed that the procedure has not been conducted in accordance with Article 93(3) of the Law, then I do not know what we need to decide. So, in time, I warn that Article 93(3) of the Public Procurement Act states that these three members must have, meaning education of the legal direction and passed the judicial exam, period. So nowhere in the law, which speaks, here, read Mrs. Borjan, and you're a lawyer, uh, nowhere mentions an expert of administrative law and/or administrative procedure. Therefore, I will propose here a written conclusion to postpone this appointment and that this point be removed from the agenda, and that the Commission informs us further, in accordance with these allegations and with what I have noticed and give us an additional explanation, so let's see, here's who's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8315	Thank you, counsel. Correction of the wrong allegation, representative Snježana Novaković-Novaković-Bursać. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8316	Mrs Marinković-Lepić-Lepic may not have understood me correctly, here I am allowing that, perhaps, I have expressed myself wrongly. I do not dispute your knowledge or not knowledge, but rather 54 whether candidates meet the required legal requirements or not, that you doubt it, and you did not sit in that commission and you did not personally, at least as far as I know, review those documents. I, in this, dare now as a member of the Commission to claim here that we are working together and, of course, on the basis of the proposals prepared by the secretaries who, this one, who, together with us, have taken note of this documentation, have determined that these three members have legal exams and that they meet the fully required legal criteria. So that's not what I'm giving for the right to find out here, keeping in mind that we've been working for days to get to this list, that we've been very careful and closely monitoring that we don't accidentally steal a mistake in terms of disrespect, or that we don't meet all the legal requirements required for anyone on this list.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8317	Thank you, Representatives Novakovic-Novaković-Bursać. Correction of the wrong alleged representative Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepic. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8318	Here it was wrong at the beginning, so here it was wrong in the beginning, in the very name of the job, please, member of the Office for the Review of Appeals – an expert in administrative law or administrative procedure. So nowhere in the law does it mention that it must be an expert in administrative law or administrative procedure, but simply says that it should have completed the Law School and passed a judicial exam. So I ask the question of how could it be wrong at the beginning in the text of the competition when such a qualification is not at all contained in Article 93(3) of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8319	Thank you, counselor. No more logged in on this agenda item. I'm closing the debate at point 17. We're moving on to item 18 of the agenda, Ad. 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of two representatives of the academic community and one representative of the NGO sector in the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the Fight against Corruption, Proposer: Joint College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-16-1906-11/20, since 08.10.1920 The Joint College of both homes identified the above proposal for a conclusion. It is proposed that the Interim Joint Commission from the House of Representatives be appointed representatives: Predrag Kožul, Safet Softić and Jakov Galić. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. 55 I hereby conclude the debate under point 18. Moving to point 19. Ad. 19. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of Deputy Director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-16-1907-1/20, of 08.10.1920
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8322	Thank you. Well, I keep pointing to this one. The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that the composition of the commission is 1/3 from the Republika Srpska and 2/3 from the Federation. And this House constantly violates the rules of the Rules of Procedure. We here now have proposal 2/3 from Republika Srpska, Mr Osmanović and Mrs Vulić, and 1/3 from the Federation. When we look at the proposed composition of the House of Nations, we see that this balance that the Rules of Procedure imposes and prescribes will be violated again. And this isn't the first time, this isn't the first commission of this kind. And I ask that Dom respect the Rules of Procedure. I think it's quite a legitimate request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8323	Thank you. I find that you have misused your application under the violation of the Rules of Procedure because you have expressed your position in relation to the proposal. So it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure in terms of any leadership, either by any agent, but you intervened in the sense of violation of the Rules of Procedure of a particular composition proposal. You could have done that under discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 20. Ad. 20. A review of the parliamentary initiative of Aida Baručija, Branislav Borenović, Dženan Đonlagić, Edita Đapo, Jasmin Emrić, Mirjana Marinković-Lepić-Lepić, Saša magazinović and Šemsudin Mehmedović, tasked with "The Ministry of Security of BiH to submit the Action Plan on Implementation of the Strategy for Migration and Asylum for the period 2016-20", issue: 01-50-1743/20, from 02.09.20120 to 56 The House College has designated the Joint Commission for Human Rights as competent to consider that initiative. The Joint Committee delivered its opinion. The Commission adopted the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this parliamentary initiative. Representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8325	Thank you. As one of the promoters of this initiative, I want to explain the same. We ask that the BiH Ministry of Security report on the implementation of the Action Plan, which follows the Strategy in the area of migration and asylum for the period 2016-2020. Here, let me briefly remind you that the Strategy in the area of migration and asylum and the Action Plan 2016-2020 was adopted at the 50th meeting of the Council of Ministers on 30.03.2016. The strategy covers eight strategic objectives and 37 measures. Since this is the last year of implementation of this Strategy, and given the current state of migration and migration flows in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we consider it necessary that the Ministry of Security, with this requested report, give us a detailed understanding of the implementation of the strategic objectives and measures and activities envisaged by this Action Plan. So it's about the next one. The first strategic goal – to improve the system of control of the entry and residence of foreigners in BiH. This strategic objective has seven measures and 53 concrete activities. The activities are determined, for each activity is a designated operator, a time limit and a source of financial resources. The number two strategic goal – to strengthen the facilities in the asylum area in BiH. This strategic objective has five measures and 14 activities. The third strategic goal – to increase the efficiency of the control of the BiH state border. This strategic objective has three measures and 20 concrete activities. The fourth strategic goal – to improve the fight against illegal migration in BiH. This is currently the most important strategic objective, it has nine measures and 57 concrete activities in this Action Plan, and it will be very important to monitor how and how these commitments set out in this Action Plan have been implemented. The fifth strategic goal – to contribute to reducing human trafficking in BiH. This strategic goal has five measures, 10 activities. The sixth objective – to strengthen institutional capacities in BiH with the aim of linking migration and development. This strategic objective is two measures and six concrete activities. The seventh objective – to establish a system for monitoring the integration of foreigners who are legally staying in BiH territory. The strategic objective is five measures and 11 concrete active sites. 57 I eighth strategic objective – to establish a permanent coordination system in the realisation of BiH's migration policy. This strategic goal has one measure, the measure is the continued action of the BiH Co-ordination Body for Migration Affairs and has two concrete activities. I must say that this eighth strategic goal was achieved then we probably wouldn't be in this situation right now where the weight of the migrant crisis feels only in one part of BiH, i.e. in northwestern BiH, specifically in the Un-San canton, where the full course of normal life has been disrupted for three years and where cities and municipalities of the Un-San canton can no longer cope with the weight and consequences of the migrant crisis. This is what we have discussed here and we have sought concrete activities from competent authorities and institutions, unfortunately these activities are not visible. Something's been done, we don't know how much it is, but it's not enough. So, coordination is not working, this coordination is established by law and is not left to volunteer or to someone's goodwill, but it is legally founded and determined who and how it manages and controls migration and migrant flows in BiH. Illegal migration is the biggest problem, illegal migration in BiH is not controlled at all, but all migrants who illegally enter BiH territory are headed to the UN-San canton, which has become a waiting room for migrants to move to EU countries. We believe that, through an assessment of the institutional capacities and functioning of the system, we must face this very difficult situation, and find the best solutions, that is to call out all those who have not worked in line with the Strategy and the Action Plan these past three years. So we find that there is also a legislative framework, that there is a Strategy and Action Plan which, as you have heard, through these eight strategic objectives is very thorough, through concrete activities is also very thorough, and then where the problem is, here we ask this public question, we want to know and therefore this initiative is proposed, and I hope that this House will support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8326	Thank you, Agent Emrić. No more registered under this agenda. We're closing the debate. Moving to point 21. Ad. 21. Consideration of Zlatan Begić's parliamentary initiative "in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers, the competent ministries in the Council of Ministers and other competent institutions/organities to ensure, in cooperation with the BiH Border Police, the necessary financial resources and to implement the legal procedures necessary for the engagement/employment of the missing, or necessary number of BiH Border Police, and adequate equipment for the necessary material and technical means, with the aim of an adequate response to the problems arising from the migrant crisis", issue: 01-50-1172/20, since 07/09/20 The House College has designated the Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH as responsible for considering this initiative. The Joint Commission delivered its opinion, the Commission did not support that initiative. 58 I am opening a debate on this parliamentary initiative. Representative Zlatan Begić called for the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8328	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, very briefly. So, we all know that the migrant crisis is being resolved at the border, on the state border, not in Tuzla, not in Bihac, not in Cazin, and here's my colleague Emrić, in fact, explained in part the reasons for the submission and this initiative. I don't think it's necessary for me to take extra time, my initiatives are so well formulated that they can be seen from both intents and reasons for which they are submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8329	Thank you, counsel. No more logged in on this agenda item. We're closing the debate. Moving to point 22. Ad. 22. Consideration of the delegation initiative Zlatan Begić, "which, in cooperation with other competent institutions, orders the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to obtain official data from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg concerning the exact number of rejected and rejected appeals by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the proceedings brought about by the claim for damages resulting from war crimes, crimes against humanity and crimes genocide (in addition to the list of cases), and to obtain official data on whether (and which are) representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina (generally or in this court) participated in the proceedings in any way or at any stage, and what was their position or their potential impact on the content of the decisions in each individual case", No. 01-50-150/2019.20. The House College has designated the Commission for Foreign Affairs as competent to consider that initiative. The Commission delivered its opinion, the Commission supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this parliamentary initiative. Representative Zlatan Begić called for the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8331	And also very briefly, on several occasions we are here, and I have presented a problem that relates to this large number of cases. In essence, it is a secondary, or additional victim victim victim victimisation of the most serious war crimes, crimes against humanity and the crimes of genocide due to the conflicting practice of the 2002 and 2007 Constitutional Court. For 59 years, attitudes that are contrary to each other, today we have a situation where regular courts reject these demands, lawsuits in court proceedings, and there is also an increasing number of citizens and associations complain that when they reach the European Court of Human Rights, they do not have a pass-by to decide their cases on a scale but are rejected, so they do not refuse. And since the legal situation is completely unclear, that it is a large number of BiH citizens who belong to each of the three constituent nations, in the order of the others, and that this is a particularly sensitive category of the population, I think we should officially get the data, so let's see as responsible people and parliamentarians what happens to this particularly sensitive group of BiH residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8332	Thank you, Agent Begić. No more reports. We close the debate at point 22. Moving to point 23. Ad. 23. The discussion of the delegation initiative Zlatan Begić “by the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives tasks the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in accordance with its responsibilities, and in cooperation with other competent state institutions and in cooperation with associations of citizens – victims of crime at the gate committed on 25.05.1995 in Tuzla, at the highest institutional level, to establish contact and organise official visits to representatives of the victims' associations of this crime and the state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the countries that received numerous wounded - victims of this serious crime to treat or care, and to organise, in cooperation with the victims' associations, official reception in Bosnia and Herzegovina for representatives of these friendly states, in order to express in this and other appropriate ways the gratitude of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens to those countries and their citizens, with the aim to develop a culture of memories and promotions of inter-state relations with the friendly states, which have proved themselves and in terms of time of time, and time of time of time of time of time of time. The House College has designated the Commission for Foreign Affairs as competent to consider that initiative. The Commission delivered its opinion, the Commission supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate on a representative's initiative. Representative Zlatan Begić, you have your word. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8334	I thank the chairman. Also very briefly, this crime will remain remembered for most generations of younger people being 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 22 years affected by this event, by this crime, meaning 70 dead, almost two hundred seriously wounded, at that time in BiH there was no 60 opportunity to provide them with medical help, because they were very, very delicate injuries due to the grenade explosion. Certain friendly countries then accepted these young people, wounded from BiH, provided top-notch care, gave some the opportunity to go there and school and stay. Today, they are prominent citizens of these countries. What is totally unacceptable, however, is that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina has never thanked these friendly countries for the reception of these children, including, if we have to, and so on and when it comes to these matters, young men and girls from all constituent peoples and from the order of others and on the initiative of the Association "25. May" from Tuzla, I submitted this parliamentary initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8335	Thank you, counsel. No more reports. We conclude the debate under point 23. We're going to the 24th agenda, Ad. 24. Consider the Zlatan Begić parliamentary initiative "to establish the Interim Research Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the issue of the migrant crisis, which will establish facts and collect relevant information in connection with the migrant crisis – by conducting hearings of responsible persons, by going out on the ground and in other ways, and by submitting a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and Freedoms with a proposal for short-term and long-term measures from the jurisdiction of this home, which should be taken for the sake of effective management of this crisis, in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and respect for their security and their rights and freedoms, and in respect of the highest international standards of protection of human dignity, and the rights and freedom of migrants", issue: 01-50-1775/20, as of 07.09.2020. The House College has designated the Joint Commission on Human Rights and the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH as responsible for considering this initiative. The BiH Joint Defence and Security Commission did not support the initiative. The Joint Committee on Human Rights has not accepted the initiative. I'm opening a debate on this parliamentary initiative. Debate, MP Zlatan Begić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8337	Also a very short explanation, we have a problem with the migrant crisis, we have a problem that we as parliamentarians, at least I, do not have relevant information, there is much in public space, there is a lot of disinformation in public space. There are serious indications that the migrant crisis is used even for human trafficking, and that certain channels of drug trafficking and intoxicating drugs are being established. For all these reasons, I believe that this Parliament as a body which is competent to make certain decisions which would be managed by the migrant crisis should have real and relevant information. That information to come 61 through its commission that would bring together representatives of all parties, is the way the Rules of Procedure foresees it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8338	Thank you, counsel. No more reports. We conclude the debate at point 24. We're going to the 25th agenda, Ad. 25. Consideration of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's parliamentary initiative Zlatan Begić "in cooperation with the Rectorial Conference and the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency of BiH, as well as with other competent institutions and institutions, within three months of preparation and in the procedure for adoption of the amendment and addition of the Framework Law on Higher Education in BiH", issue: 01-50-1815/20, since 14/09/20 The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission as competent to consider that initiative. The Commission submitted its opinion, the Commission did not accept that initiative. I'm opening a debate on a representative's initiative. For the debate, MP Zlatan Begić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8340	I apologize, as far as I know, that chairman of the Commission has accepted this parliamentary initiative. I think there's been a mistake, if you can just check it out. So, very briefly while you're checking it out, a very short explanation. The Law on Higher Education was passed, the Framework Law on Higher Education more than ten years ago, while some of its provisions became a brake for effective development of the teaching and scientific process. This, therefore, has nothing to do with either ethnic or national or entity issues, it is about modernising the scientific teaching process at universities, and so that I do not prejudge things and I propose legal solutions, and in order to pass all of this, here is to refer to the Council of Ministers' initiative to co-operate with the uninformed institutions in a comprehensive manner and to suggest that we can, uh, remove these normative obstacles to the development of higher education in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8341	Thank you, counsel. 62 Just once again that, just once again, this one, you are, your finding referred to that the Commission has delivered its opinion and has not accepted it, and you have corrected it in that sense. We have now, uh, checked that the Commission has delivered its opinion and adopted this initiative, so I want to conclude here as part of this debate. Thank you very much. If no one ever hears from you again, we'll conclude a debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 26. Ad. 26. Consideration of BiH Parliamentary House of Parliament's Zlatan Begić's parliamentary initiative "in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to launch, in cooperation with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the procedures necessary for the establishment of a new ministry in the BiH Council of Ministers - the Ministry of Diaspora", number: 01-50-1-1816/20, since 14/09/20 The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission as competent to consider that initiative. The Commission has delivered its opinion, the Commission has adopted that initiative. I'm opening a debate on a representative's initiative. Representative Zlatan Begić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8343	I thank the chairman. Again very briefly, on the initiative of the association of our people from abroad whose number, unfortunately, is increasing more and more, I have submitted this parliamentary initiative with the intention of establishing a ministry that will deal specifically with our people who live and work outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in order to establish co-operation, in order to bind these people to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for purely practical and all long reasons, is that they mean co-operation with these people who live and work outside BiH today, so abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8344	Thank you, counsel. No more reports. We conclude the debate at point 26. Moving to item 27 of today's agenda, 63 Ad. 27. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 2 to the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, subsequently amended by Amendment No. 1 – Distribution of Electricity in BiH – C (Fi 82.304 – SERAPIS 2010 – 0562), No.: 01.02-21-1-1872/20, of 23.09.2020 The Foreign Affairs Commission has delivered its opinion, the Commission has given the opinion that previous conditions have been met for the House of Representatives to give consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate at point 27. This was also the final point of today's agenda, with this we exhausted today's session agenda. I'm taking a break until 6:00 when we meet here to proceed with the vote. Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8346	I ask the MPs to take their seats. We can approach the vote. Point 1. – The adoption of the minutes from the 12th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. We're voting on the adoption of the record. Adopted, 32 for, 2 abstentions. Point 3. – Proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposing: Representatives Saša Magazinović, Damir Arnaut and jasmin Emrić, issue: 01-02-1-2573/17, since 19.06.2019. (second reading) We are voting on the amendment of the Parliament of Alma Čolo. For 23, v. 9, abstention 3. There's a general, no entity majority. It was not in the first vote that the amendment to Parliament was passed, Čolo. In the second round later. We vote in the package of amendments by MPs Damir Arnaut, Jasmin Emrić and Saša Magazinović, who disputed Amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 13 and 21 of the Constitutional Commission Report. Present 35 – for 22, v 12, abstention 1. 64 There's a general majority, no entity majority. No package on the amendment was adopted, i.e. no entity majority. We will subsequently declare this package of amendments. We are voting on the draft law in the second reading with the amendments adopted
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8347	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8348	That's what we'll do for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8349	Oh, yeah, we didn't, so we didn't say anything about the amendments, that's right, it goes to another reading. Point 4. – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees in proceedings before the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-344/20, of 02.07.20120. (second reading) We're voting on the bill. For 31, v. 2, abstention 1. There's a general, there's an entity majority. Law on court fees passed. Point 5. – Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MPs from the DF Club, Number: 01-02-1-1381/20, of 22.07.20120, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We are voting on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission which is negative the second time. There's no general majority, for 12, against 21, abstention 2. Opinion not accepted, legislative procedure suspended. Point 6. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Saša Magazinović, No: 01-02-1-1769/20, since 04.09.20120 (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. For 21, there are no, abstentions 14. There's a general majority because there's a total of 35 present, there's no entity majority. Later in the second round. Point 7. – Report by the College of the College on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut's proposal to include a new item in the agenda of the 12th session of the House of Representatives, which reads: Discussing the Parliament's initiative of Damir Arnaut, which ''needs the Council of Ministers of BiH to implement all the necessary procedures for the competent 65 authorities of the Republic of Croatia in order to retegorise the border crossing of the Gabela Field for international passenger traffic or its opening for small-border traffic, and in any event the opening of that border crossing for the retail traffic of primary and secondary schools', issue: 01-50-1787/20, of 16. 09.2020. We vote only in the second round on the proposal to include a new point. For 20, versus 14, abstention 1. There's a general, there's an entity majority. It'll fit into the agenda. Point 8. – Report by the College on the effort to reach agreement on Parliament's proposal for Predrag Kojović to include a new item in the agenda of the 12th session of the House of Representatives, which reads: Considering the Parliament's initiative of Predrag Kojović, Mirjana Marinković Lepić, Damir Arnaut and Aida Baručija, which "needs the Council of Ministers of BiH to start coordination with the competent authorities of entities and canton within 10 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, with the aim of enabling the study of the national group of subjects to do so, enrolling the names of official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina in all school documents in accordance with the names set out in the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Day Agreement), as well as the abolition of all other forms of discrimination in primary and secondary schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina, taking into consideration from 16.20. We vote only in the second round on the proposal to include a new point. For 20, versus 15, abstentioned no one. There's a general, there's an entity majority. It'll fit into the agenda. Point 9. – Report by the College of College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of Parliamentarian Damir Arnaut to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the basis of traffic security on the roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, number: 01-02-1-1805/20, since 16.09.20120. We're voting in the second round on an emergency request. For 17, versus 13, abstention 5. There's a general, there's an entity majority. A proposal for the inclusion of the Law by emergency procedure has been adopted. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8350	Thank you, Chairman. So, this bill of law, we've now adopted an emergency procedure and now it's a debate on the law. In the driver’s license, the only amendment to this Proposal 66 of the Law is specified – the driver’s licence shall be informed that the driver is agreed to be a donor of the Authority in the event of death if the person signs such a declaration when applying for the issue, replacement or extension of the period of validity of the driver’s licence. In all such situations, the consent of relatives for organ donation will not be required. The current position (3) becomes a new position (4). This current position (3), which becomes a new position (4), which remains prescribed that the competent minister in the Council of Ministers, therefore the Minister of Transport and Communications, prescribes all these issues specifically, all the issues involved by this regulation in coordination with the competent entity, or cantonal interior ministers. So here we're only talking about the possibility of something that can be entered into the driver's license. It is obvious that the humanitarian character is the goal, and the BiH Council of Ministers' responsible minister is still addressing all issues through a regulation in co-operation with entity and cantonal interior ministers. This is a practice that is quite present in democratic countries around the world, significantly shortens procedures and saves people's lives, which is the most important of all. And I ask the MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8351	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, the only thing that's unclear for me here and what might be the problem is that it's certainly an alternative to enrolling in a driver's license/traffic license, but it's not supposed to be that a man doesn't want to make a statement at all. So he'll have to plead whether he'll give or not. So, I think some will find themselves in an awkward situation that they have to state whether they give or not. You know what that means? When a man comes, it cannot be regulated by a regulation, so he will have to say, yes, I agree or do not agree. So we leave the possibility not to make a statement at all. Now, therefore, here you are in a situation where a man who hasn't thought about it at all, a person, how he's going to react, so that's where he's going to be told – you have to say it or you won't. Well, then he'll be an antihuman if he says he won't, he'll be a humanitarian if he pleads he will. I mean, it should be an alternative that if someone wants to sign it up, if they don't want it to say anything at all. I don't know if there's a solution to that right now, if it's okay with the rules... I don't know, I'm not sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8353	Thank you. Mr. Arnaut, guilty of allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8354	Thank you, Chairman. 67 Well, it always helps when you read the text of the bill. Therefore, the driver’s licence shall be informed that the driver is agreed to be an organ donor in the event of death if the person signs such a declaration when applying for a driver’s licence.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8355	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8356	Mr. Lovrinović's a lot more insertion, enough, vote however you like, but don't throw it away. You see something, the driver's driver's license gets the information that the driver is willing to sign if he doesn't sign anything on his driver's license. He won't write anything on his driver's license if he doesn't sign it. If he signs, if he wants to be an organ donor, then the driver's license will be written by a donor. And if you'd traveled around the world a little bit, you'd see that that's exactly what these driver's licenses look like, the one who signs that he wants a donor, the one who doesn't sign it doesn't write him anything. It's just one world solution. There won't be anyone else's Stigma unless they sign something. So this is, this is how it's done in the world. Here, I think, uh, a colleague says he saw this experience in Germany, did he. I don't always know from session to session we're having a debate something that's normal in a democratic world... with us can't. Well, we'll never go forward like that, with that kind of thinking, with that kind of consciousness. Give me a minute to think out of that box...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8357	Wrong quote, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8358	Well, here's the curve in the sense it'll say this or not, here's what I'm explaining it won't. And that's how the law is conceived, that's what it says. Only if the person signs it will it write in the driver's license, it's all done further, prescribed by the rules. There's nothing you can do without the Ministers of Interior of Entities and Canton.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8359	Thank you. We understood the wrong allegation. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8360	This isn't the first time Mr. Arnaut's ever held anyone's eye. So when I listen to you about democratic joys and principles of conduct and the way you treat yourself, I'd rather return to communism than to this democracy... with you. And second time I'm warning you
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8361	Wrong quote, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8362	68 that you don't yell at me much anymore. There's a chairman here, so you're not invited to that. I'll speak as I please. He's responsible for the session, and you can say it at home to someone that's enough, otherwise you're violent. Well, I can do anything for you...
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8363	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill. For 20, against 12, abstention 3 out of 35. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. We leave for, later on in the second round. Point 10. – Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Implementation Report of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement for 2018, applicant: The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, issue: 01,02,03-37-1656/20, since 16.09.20120. Voting only in the second round on the Implementation Report of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted, 18 for, 10 against, 7 abstained from 35. There's a general and entity majority. Point 11. – Proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Constitutional Commission of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01/1-50-3-13/20, link number: 03/7-02-4-367/18, from 16.09.20120. (first reading) We are voting on a proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for making legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Adopted changes and additions. 32 for, 3 abstentions of 35. There's a general and entity majority. Point 12. – Proposal for a report on the implementation of the BiH Strategic Rural Development Plan (2018-2021) – Framework document in 2018: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01,02-50-18-1795/20, since 09.09.20120. We're voting on the adoption of the proposal for a report. For 20, against six, abstentions nine out of 35. Has general, has entity majority(?) No draft report on the implementation of the Strategic Plan has been adopted(?) Point 13. – Implementation report
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8364	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2020-10-14-0.u8365	69 Yes, they will vote later at the next session, not adopted today. Point 13. – Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-1595/20, since 31.07.20120. We're voting for adoption of the report. A report on the execution of the Budget Institution, 26 for, 7 against, 2 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. Point 14. – Report on the financial audit of the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2019, applicant: Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01-16-9-1910/20 since 29.09.20120. They have two conclusions. First we vote on the conclusions. First conclusion: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH to urgently approach the comprehensive implementation of the recommendations contained in the report on the financial audit of the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for 2019, and to provide information on the implementation of the Report's recommendations to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at the latest by 01.03.2021. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Individually for each conclusion. For 33, against 2 out of 35. There's a general, there's an entity majority. First conclusion adopted. Second conclusion: 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury to urgently complete the establishment of an internal control system in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. It also calls for particular attention to be paid to strengthening the internal control system with a view to increasing the efficiency of financial business and reliability of financial reports, and to establish an appropriate internal control system that will reduce the risk of repeating the same errors or the emergence of new errors in its financial business. We're voting on this conclusion. For 34, abstention 1 out of 35. There's a general and entity majority. It's a consensual conclusion. We're voting for adoption of the report. Report adopted, for 32, versus 2, abstention 1 out of 35. 70 There are both general and entity majority. Point 15. – The appointment of the Director-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Report on the designation of a candidate for the appointment of the Director-General of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the Implementation of the Procedure for the Designation of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-16-1094-5.2a/20, since 28.09.20120. We vote on the appointment of Hrvoje Tvrtković as general auditor. For 26 against 2, abstention 1 out of 35(?) _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
